Docunt of
h eWorld Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
-           -Repwt No. P-5583-CZ
REPORT AND) RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNIONAL BA  FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTHE   LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$450 MILLION
TO THE
CZECH AND SLOVAK FEDERAL REPUBLIC
JUNE 7, 1991
This doce-nt oas a resticted dibion an may be used by rclpien only In the performane of
their offlial duties. Its contenas may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autorization.



CURRENCY ECUIVALENTS
Unit of Currency: Koruna (Plural: Koruny; Kcs)
I Koruna   100 haler or hellers
EXCHANGE RATE: KORUNA PER US DOLLAR
Period                      rage
1985                     17.18
1986                     1i.00
1987                     13.68
1988                     14.36
1989                     15.05
1990                     17.95
April 1991
US$1.00 - Kcs29.94
Kcs 1.00 - US$0.033
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMEA                 Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
CSFR           =    Czech and Slovak Federal Republic
ECO            -    Expanded Cofinancing Operations
EEC            =    European Economic Community
EXIM bank      -    Export-Import Bank of Japan
FIAS                Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GDP            -    Gross Domestic Product
ICB            -    International Competitive Bidding
IFC                  International Finance Corporation
MIGA           -    Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOE            a    Ministry of Economy
MOF            a    Ministry of Finance
NMP            a    Net Material Product
OECD           a    Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development
SBCS           a    State Bank of Czechoslovakia
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOa OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CZECH AMD SLOVA  FEDEA& REUBLI
STUL AUSTEr LfAN (Sau
TABLE OF CONENS
lAN Am n Ga MS         R   ... ......  .                                       . .
PT I - THE ECONOMY  ..........................    1
Background   ............................    1
Recent Econouic Developments  .............                        .. . .    3
External Debt and Creditworthiness  ................    4
PART II - THE GOVQER2N3   S TRANSFORMATION PROGAM  . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
A. Overview . . .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    5
B. Iacroeconomic Framework .... . . . . .                                   6
Fiscal Policy . . . . . . # . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Monetary Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Wage Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Exchange Rate and Reserve Management  . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
C.  Structural and Institutional Reforms  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Price and Trade Liberalization  . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . 9
Competition and Deregulation  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   10O
Privatization of State-Owned Enterprises  . . . . . . . . . .   11
Financial Sector Reform . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Energy Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Labor Market and Social Sectors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
PART III - SHORT ANDMEDIUM-TERM OUTLOOK. XTRUA  FINANCIG NEEDS.
AND  CREDITWORTHINESS ...................... .   28
PARTI- THEPROP-SEDL AN ............. .               ....                         37
PART V - BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS . . . .  43
A. Bank Assistance Strategy ....  .        .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   43
B. Mobilization of Other Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .44
C. Promotion of Private Sector Activities . . . . . . . . . . .44
D. Collaboration with Other Agencies   .  . . . . . . . . . . . .          45
PANLT MI - REC1MMEDTIN  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rcipints onl in the peorranc
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank author!alonj



1.   Key  acrooconomic Iudicators  .......  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .  .   .  30
2.   Medium-Term Balance of Payments and Financing Plan  . . . . . . . .  34
3.   Selected Debt Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
S 1C IMACINGTORS DAT&WET  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
1.   Key Economic Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  48
2.   Memorandum of Development Policy and Associated Policy Matrices . . . 55
3.   Quantitative Indicators and Indicative Minim.um Targets .81
4  Supplementary Program Data Sheet .82
5.   Status of Bank Operations in the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic   85
at  IBRD No 22910



CMECH AND SLOVAM MEDERAL REPUBLIC
Loan aid Pro;ram Smumar
hMMagE:                   The Czech and Slovak Federal Republic.
Ammont:                   US$450 million equivalent.
Terms:                    15 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
2scrL2tion:               The proposed Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) would
support the first phase of Czechoslovakia's rapid
transition to a marks', economy. By adjusting to a
radically changed external environment and new prices
and incentives the country seeks to restore competi-
tiveness and growth, and achieve higher standards of
living.  Within a sound medium-term macroeconomic
framework, the SAL's principal focus is on fundamental
systemic reforms in (a) ownership and management of
enterprises; (b) price and trade liberalization,
including active enhancement of competition, and (c)
provision of an adequate social safety net for those
population segments most adversely affected during the
transition process.  These reforms are expected to
promote private entrepreneurship and improve the
allocation of resources. At the same time, the loan
would help initiate restructuring of the financial
sector, address urgent pricing and regulatory issues
in energy, and put in place a basic institutional and
policy framework for protecting the environment.
BeMfits and Risks:        The principal benefits of the transformation program
resulting from a fundamental re-allocation of resour-
ces would be a sa nificant rise in productivity, higher
rates of economic growth and improved standards of
living based on the development of a dynamic and
outward-oriented private sector within an economic,
institutional  and  legislative  environment  also
conducive to direc_ foreign investment and commercial
borrowing.
The risks associated with implementing the transfor-
mation program are essentially twofold. First, the
full impact of the transformation program on prices
and unemployment will be felt only in the coming months



- it -
and years. Although the population is generally aware
of the disruptions and social bardships associated with
the move to a market economy, resistance to full
implementation of the transformation program or even
social unrest cannot be totally excluded should
inflationary pressures or unemployment levels become
very high. However, the strong social safety net the
Gover.iment has put in place, and will develop further,
as well as the agreements between the trade unions,
the employers' association and the Government augur
well for preserving social peace. Second, although
the country has secured sufficient funding for imple-
menting its policy reforms in 1991, it cannot be
assumed with certainty that it will receive adequate
funding over the next few years. The expected expedi-
tious privatization of economic activities and the
catalytic financing role played by multilateral agen-
cies during the early phase of the transition can,
however, be expected to create an atmosphere conducive
to enhanced commercial lending. The Bank will continue
its efforts to help mobilize external financing from
bilateral and multilateral sources, including cofinan-
cing and guarantee operations, as the transformation
program progresses and the financing needs can be
quantified more accurately.
stimated _ 8 ursmnss:  The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed in three
tranches:  US$200 million upon loan effectiveness,
which is expected in July 1991, and the remaining two
tranches of US$125 million each, based on satisfactory
progress in carrying out the reform program and after
completion of a number of key actions upon which
success of the initial phase of the transformation
program depends.   Release of the second and third
tranches are expected in late 1991/early 1992 and in
mid-1992 respectively. The SAL is expected to be co-
financed by the Japanese Export-Import Bank in the
amount of US$200 million.
Aunraisal Renort          None
am                        IBRD No. 22910
U. Hewer (Task Manager); P. Nouvel (Division Chief); E. Lari (Director)
Reviewers: C. Blanchi, S. Dhar, N. DeWitt, W. Grais, P. Hasan, F. Lysy,
U. Thumm



REPORT ALD RECOMMENDATION OF T   PRESID
OF TH  INTNATIONAL BANK       RECONSTRUCTION AND  EELMET
O QE =   CIV  DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCUAL AJSTMNT LON
IN Al AMOU$ EIVALUT TO USS450 MILLION
TO THE CZECU AND SLVAR  EDA R          C
INTRODllClD
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan for the equivalent of US$450 million to the Czech and
Slovak Federal Republic. The loan would support the first phase of a structural
adjustment program aimed at transforming Czechoslovakia rapidly into a market
economy and restoring economic growth. The program would be implemented in the
context of a medium-term macroeconomic framework that ensures internal and
external equilibria. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 5 years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The EXIM Bank of Japan is
expected to cofinance the loan. Czechoslovakia is under a 14 month stand-by
arrangemenr (SBA) in the amount of SDR620 million with the IMF that started in
January 1991, plus access under the compensatory and contingency financing
facility (CCFF) of up to SDR 484 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
BaW=gound;
1.1         The Czech and Slovak Federal Republic is a landlocked country nestled
in the heart of Europe. It has a po?ulation of 15.6 million, and an estimated
per capita income of US$3460 in 1989.   Czechoslovakia has diverse natural
rer,ources, but it is highly dependent on imports of oil and natural gas from the
Soviet Union to satisfy its energy needs. Industry accounts for about 60 percent
of GDP and employs some 37 percent of the labor force. About 40 percent of the
country's land is arable but agriculture accounts for only about 8 percent of
GDP. The country's labor force of about 7.8 million is well-educated, highly
skilled and forms the basis of an industry that is considerably more advanced
than that of some other reforming economies in the region.
1.2         Czechoslovakia was the richest of the "successor states" that emerged
from the Austro-Hungarian Empire following World War I, and in the late 19309,
belonged to the 10 most developed countries. At the end of the 1940s, the Soviet
system of central planning was imposed on the country, and all commercial and
industrial enterprises were nationalized. For the next 40 years, Czechoslova-
kia's economy was characterized by centrally planned allocation of resources,
strong emphasis on heavy industry, high investment ratios, administrative
pricing, foreign trade through state monopolies, and enterprise managers often
being selected because of their political reliability rather than their competen-
For a more detailed description of the economy see "Czechoslovakia -
Transition to a Market Economy", The World Bank, Report No 8847-CZ,
December 13, 1990.



- 2 -
ce. Although the share of manufacturing and consumer goods industries in total
industrial output has somewhat grown over the past twenty years, these industries
have traditionally been negleoted. Machinery, chemicals and rubber, iron metal-
lurgy and electrotechnical and metalworks production account for more than half
of gross industrial output. The economy is also characterized by a very low
degree of specialization. Industry produces some 90 percent of all engincering
and chemical products used in the country. The tendency to produce an excessi-
vely wide range of end-products is the result of several factors: (a) although
intra-CMEA trade arrangements stipulated country-specific Industrial production,
Czechcslovakia found it more advantageous to produce many products domestically
because they were considered of a higher quality and more readily available: (b)
hurizontal integration among industrial enterprises provided a certain guarantee
against both supply and demand uncertainties; and (c) a shortage of foreign
exchange forced enterprises to produce domestically many products, needed as
inputs, for which the country had no comparative advantage. Even when CZEA
demand leveled off in the 1980s, ready markets were found in tWs where price
and credit terms were more important considerations than quality.
1.3         At first glance, Czechoslovakia's economic performance over the past
twenty years has been relatively good. Per capita incomes have been improving
steadily, though at scarcely noticeable rates in the second balf of the 1980s.
Both internal and external financial stability have been maintained. Open infla-
tion has been less than 2 percent on average during the 1980s. Supplies of basic
consumer goods have been adequate, and repressed inflation has been small.
Unemployment has been virtually non-existent. The country's social indicators
show a relatively good picture. Although Czechoslovakia's educational levels
have fallen behind leading world standards in several areas, especially in fields
which are indispensable for competing successfully in world markets, the general
educational standards have remained high.
1.4         This initially favorable impression must, however, be qualified once
one compares actual with potentieul growth performance and analyzes the under-
lying economic trends. Although Czechoslovakia has been doing well when compa-
red with other formerly centrally planned economies in the region, it is impor-
tant to stress thai. such a comparison is misleading since the country belonged
to the group of industrialized countries before World War II. Czechoslovakia's
growth has consistently and increasingly lagged behind that of developed market
economies. During the 1960s and 1970s, the growth rates were some 30 percent
below those of the OECD countries, and the gap widened further during the 1980s.
1.5         The serious economic inefficiencies, which had been partly obscured
by rising consumption levels, made themselves felt during the 1980s. The growth
of average labor productivity in the material sphere dropped from 4.3 percent
a year between 1970 and 1980 to 1.5 percent between 1980 and 1988. The energy
consumption/GDP ratio is two to three times higher than the ratios observed in
western European countries. Consumption of other material inputs tends to be
equally wasteful. In spite of the long-standing preferential treatment and of
the relatively good output performance of certain industrial subsectors such as
engineering and chemical industries in the late 1970s and early 1980s, overall
industrial output growth has been disappointing over the past ten years. In-
dustrial growth rates declined from 5.6 percent a year during the 1970s to 2.1
percent on average during the second half of the 1980s. A sharp drop in exports



- 7 -
2.6         In the txa&port sector,  the railways,  inter-city,  and urban
passenger transport remair. subsidized. In all three areas, part of the subsi-
dies is due to discounted fares for specific groups (pensioners, children,
students, or commuters). In the future, the Government will pursue this objecti-
ve in the context of the personal tax reform, to be implemented in 1993.  As
regards general operating subsidies, the Government intends to make the rail-
way operations self-financing (including investment in rolling stock); proposals
to this effect will be formulated by the end of 1991. Thereafter, cost recovery
proposals regarding investments will be developed. In the areas of inter-city
and urban passenger transport, operating subsidies resulting from the low level
of standard fares will be reduced by at least 20 percent a year from 1991
onwards. On April 1, 1991 local public transportation fares in Prague were
raised by 40-50 percent for passholders, and by 300 percent for single fares.
2.7         Reductions  in subsidies,  as well as in tax exemptions,  will
contribute considerably ro the hardening of the enterprise budget constraint.
In addition, the Government has limited the granting of guarantees for loans to
enterprises, both to avoid the buildup of a potential burden on the budget and
to prevent the pre-emption of credit by inefficient yet politically powerful
enterprises. Guarantees for such loans amounted to some KC8 9 billion in 1990,
but the Govarnment intends to keep them as low as Kcs 5 billion in 1992.
2.8         The Government is also preparing a major tax reform to be imple-
mented in 1993, with technical assistance from the IMF. The goal of the tax
reform will be to create an objective, fair, and efficient tax system that redu-
ces economic distortions and political discretion while enhancing resource allo-
cation and economic incentives.  The turnover tax is to be replaced by a value
added tax, the profits taxes are to be unified, the various taxes on personal
income are to be replaced by a single tax, and the payroll tax is to be replaced
by uniform social security contributions. Tax bases, rates, and procedures will
be overhauled. Specific proposals for each of these taxes are under prepara-
tion, and by late 1991 or early 1992 the new tax laws are expected to be
presented to Parliament. Particular attention will be paid to *levelling the
playing field" for different economic agents, and therefore to the issues of tax
holidays, differences in rates of taxation between domestic enterprises and
joint ventures, depreciation, provisions and different treatment of different
types of income under the personal income tax. In addition, the tax reform will
reduce to a minimum the discretion of tax authorities to waive tax liabilities.
Already in 1991 no ex-Rost tax exemptions will be granted. Any changes made to
the tax system in the period prior to the 1993 tax reform will be consistent
with the principles of that reform.
Monetary Policy
2.9         Czechoslovakia is continuing its long tradition of prudent moneta
oi   and successful control of inflation.  A tight monetary policy has been
put in place to prevent the price jump associated with price and trade liberali-
zation from developing into an inflationary spiral and achieve the desired balan-
ce of payments targets. For 1991, overall domestic credit is projected to expand
by 20 percent, compared to an initially projected price rise of about 30-40
percent. Consistent with this tight credit policy, the State Bank raised the



basic discount rate frcm 8.5 percent to 10 percent at the beginning of 1991.
Overall credit expansion was below 5 percent in the first quarter of 1991, compa-
red with the target ceiling of 6 percent, whereas retail prices increased by 44
percent compared to end-1990. While the sharp decline in economic activities
in the first quarter of 1991 is cause for concern, the Government does not intend
to modify its basic monetary policy stance, as the cornerstone of the stabiliza-
tion program. In principle, credit and deposit rates will be d-termined by the
market. In view of the fledgling nature of the banking system, direct credit
ceilings for commercial banks will, however, remain the main instrumf.nt of credit
policy in 1991.   The development of an efficient payments clearing system,
expected to be operational by late 1991, will support the establishment of an
interbank (money) market and strengthen monetary policy through the control of
excess reserves.
2.10        To reinforce the effectiveness of interest rates to allocate credit,
enterprise credits will be restructured. One-third of total enterprise credit
is currently in the form of inventories credits with no set maturity dates and
low fixed interest rates ("perpetual accounts"). Commercial banks have been
instructed to renegotiate such loans in the course of 1991 with normal maturity
dates and variable interest rates linked to the discount rate.  Furthermore,
budgetary provision was made for compensating the difference between the inte-
rest paid to the banks on housing loans (less than 3 percent) and a market rate.
Mnother impediment to an effective credit policy is the phenomenon of rapidly
increasing payment arrears between enterprises. Many enterprises are unplle to
pay their debt to other enterprises and in early 1991 these arrears had risen
to some Kcs70 billion, or about 6 percent of projected GDP. About 20 psrcent
of this amount has been settled through cross cancellation of enterprise debt
held by -he two largest commercial banks.  The authorities intend to encourage
banks, especially through proper prudential banking supervision, to initiate
bankruptcy proceedings against enterprises with consistent payment arrears.
This, in turn, should force enterprises to accept fewer payment delays from
other enterprises.
Wag?e Policy
2.11        The authorities regard the containment of wage growth as a crucial
element of their anti-inflation program. The wage policyS adopted by the autho-
rities in close consultation with the trade unions and enterprises, is expzcted
to result in a 10 percent decline in real wages in 1991, following a declfae of
about 6 percent during 1990. Under the agreed guidelines, in the first quarter
of 1991, the average wage level in the non-government sector was allowed to ir-
crease by a maximum of 5 percent above the December level. The maximum increase
in the government sector is 6 percent since wages in this sector are considered
to be lagging behind those in the rest of the economy. Indexed wage ceilings
have been defined for the remaining quarters of 1991. Heavy punitive excess
wage taxes will be applied for enterprises which grant higher than targeted wage
increases.
4/    For the structural component of the wage policy see para. 2.64.



of machinery and &quipment to socialist countries, particularly to the Sov'eot
Ution, and the stagnation of the defense industry have been a major cause for
thi' declining trend.  This trend is likely to continue and intensify over the
next few years because of the projected massive restructuring necessitated by
Czechoslovakia's integration into the world economy and because of the large
energy price increases due to the demise of the OAM and the Gulf crisis.
Moreover, industrial restructuring and modernization of production processes is
technology and import intensive, and will not favor quantitative expansion of
domestic production.
1.6         The low degree or absence of competition on both the domestic and
CHEA export markets deprived enterprises of the stimulus needed for producing
high-quality output. Although Czechoslovakia spent increasing amounts of finan-
cial and manpower resources on industrial R & D, the quality of its output
deteriorated compared to that of industrialized market economies. The share of
products at "world technical and economic level' in total value of all new
products produced declined from 40 percent in 1970 to 22 percent in ;980. The
number of patents registered by Czechoslovak industry has also fallen signifi-
cantly.
1.7         When the authorities pursued a contractionary economic policy during
the early 1980s, the lower investment levels did not, as might have been expec-
ted, result in a structural change of the industrial output. The traditional
energy and material intensive and heavy industries continued to grow while the
growth of consumer oriented Industries slowed down. This was the result (a) of
the political power of the traditional industries that defended "their appro-
priate share" of investment funds, (b) of the planners' risk aversion when it
comes to allocating scarce investment funds, especially during a time of global
contraction, and (c) of the 'hoarding' of investment funds by enterprises.
1.8         In view of the rigidities and constraints described above, nrospects
for a recovery of industrial growth in the short-term are not good. The trend
of declining industrial growth rates exhibited in the past twenty years is likely
to continue in the near future. In fact, output can be expected to decline
markedly over the next two years. The elimination of cross-subsidization between
enterprises within the same ministry, industrial restructuring, combined with
relatively import-intensive modernization, the projected decline of demand from
neighboring reforming countries, and, last but not least, the Government's tight
fiscal and monetary policy can be expected to lead initially to a shrinking of
industrial output and employment. Without such an adjustment, however, renewed
industrial growth is not likely to take place.
Recent Economic Developments
1.9         Following the 'Velvet Revolution" in November 1989 and Czechos-
lovakia's return to democracy a new Government came to power. In June 1990, the
population supported the Government's decision to transform the economy radical-
ly and quickly into a market economy (para. 2.2). A new constitution, that is
also expected to determine the relative roles and political powers of federal,
republic, and municipal authorities, is currently under preparation.



1.10        In 1990, economic activity continued to decline, and GDP fell by
about 3.5 percent.  Gross industrial production dropped by 3.7 percent, and
unemployment, unknown under central planning, rose to 1 percent of the labor
force. Consumer prices rose by 10 per^ent, while real wages declined by almost
6 percent. The balance of payments also came under pressure. Real exporte to
CMEA countries declined by 19 percent while imports in convertible currencies
rose by 26 percent in real terms. Consequently, the convertible currency ciurrent
account deficit rose from US$440 million in 1989 to US$1,105 million in 1990,
and the nonconvertible currency current account which showed a surplus of US$500
million in 1989 recorded a deficit of around US$200 million in 1990. Inter-
national reaerves declined by US$1.1 billion in 1990, mostly during the third
and fourth quarters of 1990.
1.11        During the first quarter of 1991 output further declined at an
annualized rate of approximately 10 percent with particularly strong contraction
in March. This led to unemployment of some 2 percent of the labor force by
April 1991. Following the price liberalization in early January, consumer prices
rose by about 40 percent in the first quarter. The monthly inflation rate,
dropped, however, significantly in February and March, and the prospects for
price stabilization are reasonably good, even taking into account the rocent
heating and industrial electricity price increases. Fiscal targets for the first
quarter calling for a modest surplus have been fully met, notwithstanding the
adverse impact of the weak economy on public finances ard the need to respond
to non-programmed claims of a social nature on budgetary resources. Fiscal
management during this period was characterized by strict expenditure control
and better than expected revenue performance, in particular from the turnover
and profit taxes. As the authorities adhered to the tight monetary program for
1991, the monetary targets were met with a comfor sble margin. Amid indications
of a credit crunch, the State Bank encouraged Lending to industry and export
oriented activities by facilitating access to its rediscount facility. Against
the background of the higher than anticipated jump in prices, the monetary pro-
gram for the balance of this year will be reviewed to ensure adequate levels of
credit to the economy. In the external sector, both exports and imports recor-
ded significant declines. While the sharp drop of about 25 percent of exports
to former CNEA countries wa- anticipated, the nearly 20 percent drop in exports
to non-CMEA countries had not been expected. As imports fell even more, reflec-
ting the low output level and lower oil prices, the external current account
deficit in the first quarter of 1991 was much smaller than projected. This
offset the delays encountered in the disbursement of external funds, without
unduly jeopardizing the targeted level of international reserves.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
1.12        Czechoslovakia has pursued a prudent external debt policy and has,
compared with other countries in the region, a moderate external debtt. At the
end of 1990, total debt outstanding and disbursed amounted to US$9.1 billion,
85 percent of which was in convertible and 15 percent in non-convertible curren-
cies. The country's end-1990 hard currency debt amounted to US$494 per capita.
Debt service payments on hard currency debt rose from US$1 billion in 1980 to
Z/    See Tables in Annex I.



US$1.5 billion in 1990, or from 17 to 19 percent of convertible currency
earnings. Total debt as a share of GDP has been projected to increase from 21
percent of GDP in 1990 to 27 percent in 1991 and stabilize around 30 percent
thereafter until the mid-1990s, but it would decline rapidly to 21 percent by
the end of the decade. Other debt indicators have been projected to undergo a
similar pattern (Table 3, page 37). Czechoslovakia is creditworthy for Bank
lending.
PMT II - TDE GOVRMT'S TRANSFORMTION ROGaW
2.1         The  Government  began  introducing  important  reform  measures
immediately after the elections in mid-1990. Retail subsidies on food were
removed in July 1990, and other important measures were taken in the second half
of 1990, such as substantial currency devaluations, the unification of izhe
commercial and touwist exchange rates, and price increases for gasoline, indus-
trial energy and transport. The program was launched and intensified on a broad
scale at the beginning of January 1991. It is supported by a 14 months stand-
by arrangement of SDR 620 million with the IMF, supplemented by access under the
CC?F of up to SDR 484 million.
2.2         The traiisformation program aims at moving Czechoslovakia rapidly to
a market economy and restoring economic growth. To achieve these broad goals,
the program pursues a series of detailed objectives using specific policy instru-
ments. Macroeconomic stability, based on sound fiscal, monetary, exchange rate
and income policies, allows investors and consumers to make sound decisions in
a secure environment, without excessive fears of large macroeconomic disrup-
tions.  Price and trade liberalization helps promote competition and provide
clearer signals to entrepreneurs about profitable investment areas. Through
price liberalization and a revised import tariff system, in line with an open
market economy, Czechoslovakia aims at becoming a dynamic and integrated part
of the world economy. Privatization and commercialization of state-owned enter-
risej through enforcement of hard budget constraints and market prices improves
economic incentives and resource allocation, and encourages private entrepre-
neurs. The SAL supports both the privatization of large and small enterprises
and the creation of new, privately owned enterprises. The policy tools used to
achieve these objectives include reforms of the legal structure, institutional
changes and administrative alterations.  The emergence of a modern fianial
systm that mobilizes savings, and allocates capital and risk efficiently, will
be supported by changes in the regulatory, institutional, and legal frameworks.
In addition,  the SAL will support a more rational pricing of energy and
pollution, and through -lv_ironmental restrictions when pricing mechanisms are
not practical, so that energy is used more efficiently and environmental
conditions are improved. Flexible factor markets will enable labor and capital
to respond quickly to changes in economic incentives. The SAL will also support
changes in wage formation and legislation toward social benefits that strive to
enhance labor market flexibility while providing a social safety net to those
workers most adversely affected by the structural transformation of the economy.



-6-
B. macroeconomic Framework
2.3         The authorities realize that fiscal restraint will ultimately help
promote economic growth by maintaining internal and external balances, so that
private investors can make decisions in a stable macroeconomic environment. The
1991 budget plans a surplustl equivalent to about 1 percent of projected GDP,
or about 0.5 percentage point larger than the actual 1990 surplus. The adjust-
ment effort is even larger in light of the projected lower budgetaar revenues
associated with the intended structural changes. In view of the weak resource
situation, the authorities are making considerable efforts to limit eMnditure
growth. Total government expenditures are expected to decline to 46 percent of
GDP in 1991, compared to around 55 percent during 1988-90. The drastic reduction
of subsidies is an important element of the Government's effort tu streamline
the budget and move to undistorted prices.  Budgetary subsidies, which had
already been cut from 16 percent of GDP in 1989 to 13 percent in 1990, are
budgeted to fall to about 6.5 percent of GDP in 1991. Together with restraint
in consumption and capital expenditure, these subsidy cuts should more than
offset both the weak economic revenue performance and the increased costs of the
social safety net. The subsidies reductions result mainly from the elimination
of the negative turnover tas. on food and other consumer goods (6 percent of GDP
in 1989), the elimination of foreign trade subsidies (between 1 and 3 percent
of GDP) and a substantial reduction in agricultural producer subsidies. The
Government continues to place high priority on further subsidy reductions, both
to contain expenditure and to rationalize price relations.
2.4         In agrcl&, subsidies are provided mainly through the *Fund for
Market Regulation", that guarantees purchase prices of selected products to
agricultural producers, and through purpose-tied subsidies to agricultural enter-
prises operating in poor conditions. Total agricultural subsidies are budgeted
to be reduced by about one third on an annual basis in 1991 compared with their
average 1989 and 1990 levels, and would amount to about 2.5 percent of projected
GDP in 1991. The Government will continue to reduce subsidies to agriculture,
especially the subsidies for producers in poor conditions by setting minimum
prices at levels that provide gradually less protection to inefficient producers.
2.5         HQuing receives, next to agriculture, the largest subsidies.  The
Kcs 8 billion budgeted for 1991 will be divided roughly equally between subsi-
dies granted for operating state-owned flats and to low-interest housing loans
made by the Investment Bank and savings banks. The Government intends to reduce
subsidies on operating and maintenance costs for state-owned housing during the
second half of 1991, in connection with price adjustments for other housing
services (heat, energy, water). This measure would significantly reduce the gap
between rents of state-owned and other housing (e.g. cooperative, private).
]/   Refers to the overall government account comprising the federation and
the republics, the local authorities and extra budgetary funds. It does
not include the National Property Funds which will receive the privati-
zation proceeds.



9-
Exchane Rate and Reserve ManaIgement
2.12        As part of the fundamental change of the international trade and
exchange system, the commercial and tourist exchange rates were unified on
December 28, 1990 at Kcs28 - US$1.P' To complement other stabilization measures,
the nominal exchange rate will be maintained stable against a basket of five
c-rrencies.
2.13        The authorities recognize that the restructuring of the economy will
take time, and that the balance of payments is likely to deteriorate signifi-
cantly during the initial adjustment phase. They have therefore approached both
official and market sources to raise the level of foreign reserves and thus
sustain the exchange rate level. DMF and other official resources would help
increase the reserve level by US$1.1 billion in 1991, and thereby build up
reserves to US$2.3 billion by the end of 1991 (or 1.6 months of projected 1991
imports). The authorities have agreed to consult with the IMF to ensure the
adequacy of reserve levels throughout the period of the stand-by program, and
to implement promptly corrective monetary and fiscal measures, should the level
of gross reserves fall below the targeted path.
C. Structural and Institutional Reforms
Price and Trade Liberalization
2.14        Price Liberalzliatn.  Progress to Date.  Following initial price
adjustments in the second half of 1990, prices were liberalized on January 1,
1991, eliminating most price controls and moving to a system of market-
determined prices except for a small number of items. The price liberalization
covers both wholesale and retail prices and includes about 85 percent of retail
sales. Maximum prices remained in effect for a limited period for a few basic
consumer items (flour, potatoes, sugar), and price increases for some basic
industrial commodities were limited to domestic production costs (rather than
world prices), so as to dampen speculative price increases, and to prevent
excessive profits and disruptions in domestic supplies. In spite of the substan-
tial price increases during the first quarter of 1991 (para. 1.11), prices have
been further deregulated. Actions to be Taken an.d Suuuorted under the SAL. By
the end of 1991, temporary price controls will be phased out whereas controlled
prices will apply primarily to utilities, rents in state-owned housing, public
transport, coal and pharmaceuticals.
2.15        The principal sources of upward pressure on domestic prices are the
devaluation of the Koruna and the drastic energy price increases following the
collapse of the CMEA. In dollar terms, the price of imports is expected to rise
by almost 60 percent in 1991, while the price of exports are projected to
2/    In January 1990, the previously separate commercial and non-commercial
exchange rates were unified and fixed at US$1   Kcsl7, which amounted to
a 14 percent devaluation of the commercial exchange rate; and a new
"tourist" rate was established. The commercial exchange rate was
devalued to US$1 - Kcs24 in October 1990, and a further devaluation to
US$1 - Kcs28 took place on December 28, 1990.



- 10 -
increase by about 34 percent. A full pass-through of the devalustlon alone
would lead to an increase of the domestic price level of about 8-10 percent.
The 15 percent temporary import surcharge (para. 2.17) on consumer goods and
foodstuffs could add another 1-2 percent to domestic prices.
2.16        Ira&  kLieralizati on. Progress to Date. Czechoslovakia has taken
significant and far-reaching steps to liberalize its foreign trade so that the
country can benefit from tha competition provided through foreign suppliers and
integrate quickly into the European and world economies. At the end of 1990,
all quantitative restrictions on imports were eliminated except for a few items
(crude oil, natural gas, arms, and ammunition). Moreover, a unlfied tariff
structure was applied to goods imported by legal or natural persons, while at
the same time tariffs were unilaterally reduced for a limited number (69) of
goods mostly intermediate products, subject to high duties (between 12 and 70
percent, with an average of 46.3 percent). As a result, the average tariff on
these products is now 11 percent.   Including the temporary import surcharge
applicable to about one-third of these products, the average tariff for these
products is 17.2 percent. Finally, the export premium scheme for exports to the
convertible currency area was abolished and export licenses removed, except for
textile, steel, meat, and for roughly 65 intermediate goods, mainly in connection
with remaining domestic price controls, subsidies, and import restrictions in
partner countries. In addition, on-going negotiations with the US, EEC, EFTA,
and Canada promise reduced impediments to Czechoslovak exports.  As a result,
Czechoslovakia's trade remains subject to only two constraints, namly temporary
import surcharges and export licenses, in addition to the existing tariff
schedule.
2.17        Actions to be Taken and Sunport2d under the SAL.  On December 17,
1990, a temporary import surcharge was introduced, on balance-of-payments grounds
for roughly 1700 items of Czechoslovakia's tariff nomenclature, although this
measure still needs to be approved by GATT during its July 1991 meeting. The
surcharge, after a reduction of initially 2 and then 3 percentage points and a
reduced coverage effective Hay 1, 1991, presently consists of a flat rate of 15
percent imposed on consumer goods and foodstuffs imported for resale.   The
Government realizes that the import surcharge is distortionary and intends to
abolish it as soon as possible. At the same time, the Government intends to
prepare a new import tariff schedule to rationalize effective rates of
protection, to be implemented no later than mid-1992, and to reduce further
export licenses in line with the planned reduction of temporary price controls
by the end of 1991.
2.18        In line with the transition to a market economy, foreign trade is
now open to individual enterprises, subject only to the above regulations.
However, the Government is not opposed to barter trade arrangements negotiated
by Czechoslovak firms with their foreign partners, if these firms believe that
such contracts are an appropriate method for adjusting to the current economic
conditions in some trading partner countries.
Competition and Deregulation
2.19        Progress to Date.   Economic activities  in Czechoslovakia are
dominated by the state. State enterprises are not only large but also highly



- 11 -
integrated. This pattern of industrial organization constralns a market-based
allocation of resources and the development of competition.   The Government
recognizes that, in addition to trade liberalization, fair entry conditions for
new private businesses and the preclusion of unfair trade practices are crucial
for an efficient functioning of markets. In addition to taking positive steps
to facilitate private sector development, such as streamlining and simplifying
the registration process for new firms, designing a tax system that is neutral
and commercially oriented, facilitating access of small businesses to expert
advice, and ensuring that private businesses have equal access to goods,
transport, commercial space, and services, the Government is implementing a
regulatory framework to promote competition.   To counteract unfair trade
practices, the Comgetition Protection Act was adopted on January 30, 1991. In
application of the Act, Anti-Trust Offices were set up at the Federal and
Republic levels. The Act, similar to the practice in EC countries, focuses on
(i) a ban in principle (with possible exceptions) of agreements restraining
competition or concerting trade practices, both horizontally and vertically;
(ii) control of abuse of dominant market positions covering at least 30 percent
of supplies in the relevant market; (iii) control of mergers subject to the
above market domination rule; and (iv) protection of persons against illicit
trade restraints. The Act also provides the basis for administrative procedures
to prevent or break up monopolies, within the framework of the privatization
process under the Competition Protection Act.
2.20        Actions to be Taken and Supported under the SAL.  In order to be
able to discharge their function of monitoring competitive practices in the
evolving market economy properly, the Anti-Trust Offices will prepare statutes
and by-laws that will define their working procedures and internal respon-
sibilities for the proceedings. Over -:ime the Offices are expected to establish
guidelines for interpreting the Law and clearly determine departmental and
divisional responsibilities and rules for decision making within the Offices.
Most importantly, the Government is encouraging the Anti-Trust Offices to address
concrete cases of unfair competition, monopolistic behavior, and prevention of
emerging competitive processes without delay, so that they can gain early expe-
rience and establish their monitoring responsibility early and convincingly.
Within a year's time the Government will review both the experience with the
Competition Protection Act and the results of the work of the Anti-Trust Offices,
and take corrective steps to improve regulations and decision-making procedures
in the area of anti-trust policy, if this is needed.
Privatization of State-Owned Enterprises
2.21        The Government considers private ownership and decision making about
the allocation of resources as the centerpiece of a functioning market economy.
A well-planned but speedy transfer of state ownership to the private sector i;
therefore the most critical component of the Government's transformation program.
It will, however, take years before Czechoslovakia has an ownership pattern
similar to that of Western European economies. In the interim, the Government
is taking steps to ensure that enterprises which remain, temporarily or perma-
nently, in state hands behave in as commercial a fashion as possible.
2.22        Small Privatization.  The small Rrivatization law was adopted by the
Parliament on October 26, 1990, and auctions of businesses started in January
1991 in Prague. Approximately 120,000 restaurants, retail stores, smAll service



- 12 -
units, and kiosks are being auctioned off to the highest bidder. Another 80,000
to 100,000 are expected to be subject to restitution. In order to speed up the
process of small privatization and to ensure wide participation, 114 district
commissions have been set up across the country which are in charge of preparing
business to be privatized.  In the first quarter of 1991, about 2,500 small
business were privatized and additional 10,000 small businesses are expected to
be auctioned off by mid-1991. A stumbling block to wide dispersion of ownership
is the lack of domestic savings, since the obtained price must be paid for in
full in thirty days. Although the Government has requested the banks to give
priority to credit for privatizations when weighing competing demands, it is
evident that financial considerations will limit participation. The Government
also intends to use the small privatization process to demonopolize wholesale
and retail trading and other services such as trucking, repair shops, bakeries,
and the like. Initially the now owners will own the small businesses, but not
the building or part of the building in which the business is located. They
will lease the space for up to five years, and then enter into a new contractual
relationship with the owner of the building at that time.
2.23        Large Privatization.  Progress to Date. The law on large privatila-
tIon was adopted by Parliament on February 26, 1991. A decentralized institu-
tional framework to initiate and process privatization proposals has already
been created, including Privatization Ministries in the Czech and Slovak
Republics which are supervising and accelerating the process, and the National
Property Funds at the Federal and Republic levels which will receive the
privatization receipts. The Government tentatively divided the approximately
4,000 large state-owned enterprises into three basic groups: (i) enterprises
that, for various reasons, will not be privatized in the short-term (3 to 5
years). The post office, railways, power utilities, etc., and a number of large
enterprises in the steel and mining subsectors belong to this group; (ii) enter-
prises that can be privatized in the standard case-by-case method of sale to
foreign or domestic entrepreneurs; and (iii) enterprises that will be privatized
with the help of so called investment vouchers in one or two privatization waves.
The first and second groups comprise about 1,000 enterprises each, and the third
group comprises about 2,000 enterprises. State assets where the ownership may
be in dispute will not be privatized until the dispute is settled. In addition,
where there is sufficient local interest to allow a competitive auction for a
state-owned enterprise (according to the small privatization route described
above), this mode of privatization will be followed.
2.24        Actions to be Taken and Supported under the SAL.  All enterprises
in groups (li) and (iii) are now preparing together with their founders (sector
ministry or other agency), "privatization projects". These projects (a) desig-
nate the assets to be privatized and their book value, after adjusting for
uncollectible debts, unusable assets, etc; (b) detail the proposed method of
transfer of the assets to be privatized, including, as applicable: shares to be
sold or otherwise allocated to employees, shares to be sold to private tlird
parties (and the form of such sales, as well as the price and payment condi-
tions), and methods proposed for settling any valid claims; and (c) include a
timetable for the implementation of the privatization project.   As a rule,
enterprises will opt for one privatization method or another, although a mixture
of standard and voucher privatization may occur in some cases. Consequently,
if an enterprise has proposed and is ready to be privatized through the standard



- 13 -
privatization method, all of its shares will be privatized through this method.
Similarly, if an enterprise, for lack of investment from a major investor, has
chosen the voucher method, privatization would take place fully through the
investment method. In the voucher method, no shares will be left for government
ownership, or sale to individual investors for cash payment. In some cases, the
Republics may mandate that each privatization project also include a provision
to set aside a certain proportion of the shares to provide a fund for contin-
gent liabilities such as restitution to previous owners. Privatization projects
are presented by the founding ministry to the Republic Ministry of Privatization
for approval (or in the case of federally-owned assets, to the Federal Ministry
of Finance). Special cases, including those privatization projects which call
for private non-competitive sale, are subject to approval by the Governments of
the Republics.
2.25        Enterprises will be privatized in the condition they are in at the
time of privatization, including their debt. The Government will not reorganize
or restructure financially enterprises prior to their privatization because such
tasks are beyond the Government's capacity. Then, on the designated date, the
privatized property (including rights and obligations as well as physical assets)
will be transferred to either the Federal or one of the Republic National
Property Funds established under the privatization law. The Funds will subse-
quently transfer the ownership of this property to the new owners according to
the stipulations of the privatization project. The existing debt associated
with the assets will also be transferred, but the Fund will provide a guarantee
to the creditor. The Funds may not have sufficient resources to meet all con-
tingent liabilities. As one means of alleviating the potential burden of these
liabilities on the budget, the Government will consider retaining a minority of
shares (non-voting) for subsequent sale. Detailed regulations for preparing and
implementing the privatization projects have been put in place.
2.26        In the course of the past few weeks and months, it has become clear
that it is not practical to define clear cut criteria according to which enter-
prises will be selected for the voucher or standard privatization method. Any
enterprise that will present a convincing standard privatization method will be
privatized according to that method. The Government expects that up to some
1000 enterprises may be ready to be privatized through the standard privatiza-
tion method, although it realizes that the number could be much smaller. The
urgent requirement to privatize as many enterprlses as possible in the interest
of a rapid transition to a market economy largely determines the number of
enterprises to go the voucher route. The first wave of some 1,000 enterprises
in group (iii) will present their privatization projects to the Privatization
Ministry by November 1991, and the first round within the first wave of privati-
zation through the voucher system is expected to take place in January 1992,
with the second wave being 3xpected by September 1992.
2.27        For a nominal fee of Kcs 1000, the Government is proposing to issue
ienvetment vouchers to all Czechoslovak citizens who are permanent residents and
over the age of 18 years. These vouchers are a vehicle to transfer ownership
of a substantial proportior of state-owned assets to a large number of private
citizens, despite the shortage of domestic capital.   Through a competitive
bidding process, vouchers will be exchanged for shares in privatizing companies,
either directly or through one of a number of financial intermediaries which



- 14 -
will be established for this purpose by Czechoslovak banks and other qualified
and interested agencies.
2.28        If there is insufficient demand for the enterprises offered for
privatization thro'2gh the voucher system, the enterprises in question could be
offered again for privatization in the next round, be liquidated, or offered
for a loser price to a foreign Livestor.
2.29        The Government is proposing that in those cases where there is no
other dominant ownership lnterest, intermediaries will be 'active', ln the sense
that through ownership of at least 10 percent of an enterprise's stock, they
will be able to intervene in its overall management. In other cases, interme-
diaries will be "passive  and focus on the management of their portfolios as a
whole in order to maximize returns to their shareholders. Details on the system
of investment vouchers, the bidding process, and the role and functioning of
financial intermediaries in the voucher privatization system have been prepared.
2.30        Proceeds from the large and small privatizations will be deposited
in the National Property Funds, that are not part of the state budgets. These
funds will be used only in connection with an approved privatization proposal
and only to pay the expenses of the privatizatioi process itself, provide finan-
cial restitution, or where necessary, to meet a part of the financial obliga-
tions of enterprises scheduled for privatization.
2.31        According to the existing law, it is at present not possible to
change the legal status of the state enterprises unless it has been decided that
it will be privatized immediately afterwards. The change of the legal status
of an enterprise is viewed solely as a way of preparing the enterprise for priva-
tization. The 'large privatization law' does not, however, allow the conversion
of an enterprise into a joint-stock company with the sectoral ministry as the
only shareholder. On the way to privatization, the National Property Funds will
instead become the founder of the joint-stock company and its seller. The Funds
will entrust the property of the state-owned enterprise into the newly created
company and sell the company's shares as foreseen by the approved privatization
project. This means that the Government will not change the legal or organiza-
tional status of the group that will not be privatized in the short-run. Rather,
the authorities expect the performance of such enterprises to improve, mainly
through imposing restrictive monetary and fiscal policy.  Exceptions to this
policy are possible but they are unlikely to play an important role during the
transformation process.
2.32        The Government, though placing a high priority on privatization of
state-owned enterprises during the initial phase of the transformation program,
believes that the emergence of new entrepreneurial activities will be a much
more important source of economic growth and dynamic development than the reform
or restructuring of the existing enterprises. It views privatization as the
most important way for opening up space for new entrepreneurs entering the
market. New entries are unlikely without widespread exits of existing enter-
prises.   Liquidations of enterprises have not yet really started, and the
Government is concerned that unemployment may rise quickly without, at the same
time being, accompanied by a high bankruptcy rate. Privatization is therefore
also viewed as an effective means of a radical application of the Bankruptcy Law



- 'O.5 -
that is under props*ation and expected to be adopted by Parliament in the second
half of 1991.
2.33        The Government estimates that no more than 10 percent of commercial
property will be affected by restituton. Under a restitution law enacted in
February 1991, it intends to make restitution to those former owners who are
citizens and residents, and whose businesses and property were confiscated after
1948 or who otherwise suffered material injustices, if they apply for restitu-
tion before September 30, 1991. In some cases restitution will be done through
the return of the property or business, in others, through financial compensa-
tion, to a maximum of Kcs 30,000 in cash, with any additional compensation paid
in the form of schemes of privatizing companies.   The provisions of the
Restitution Law will in no way slow down the privatization process.
2.34        Accounting and Auditing. The Government realizes that early adoption
of international accounting and auditing standards is of critical importance for
making management decisions and for preparing reliable financial statements for
investors and creditors. Czechoslovakia has been an active member of the United
Nations inter-governmental working group for international accounting and audi-
ting standards since 1988. In 1990, accounting regulations for small businesses
and organizations have been modified in line with international accounting
principles. Also, since January 1991, new regulations, based on the French
reporting and control system, have been adopted for banks; t}. new system is
expected to be fully operational within two years.
2.35        Actions to be Supnorted under the SAL.  The Government, in close
collaboration with the EC, is preparing a new Law on Accounting that will reflect
internationally accepted accounting principles. The draft Law will be submitted
to Parliament in June with a view to being ratified in the second half of 1991
and becoming effective January 1992.  The Government is also preparing new
auditing laws for both the Czech and Slovak Republics. These laws, which are
expected become effective on January 1, 1992, is planned to be accompanied by
a commercial code.
2.36        In order to meet the demand for accounting and auditing services,
the Government is preparing training programs for local accountants, who subse-
quently will train others with the objective of familiarizing up to 6000
financial employees of enterprises with the new accounting system by end-1992.
A new college of finance and accounting will be established at the Prague School
of Economics in September 1991.
Financial Sector Reform
2.37        The Government recognizes that the fundamental restructuring of
existing financial institutions, the creation of a sound legal and supervisory
framework, and the training of qualified personnel are crucial for the develop-
ment of a financial system that effectively and efficiently mobilizes and
allocates capital. The transition from the static centralized banking system
of the past to a dynamic modern financial system characterized by competitive
banks, capital markets, investment banks, and mutual funds, will be particularly
complex because many problems in the financial sector are closely associated
with enterprise reform. The Government has embarsrd on a far-reaching programA



- 16 -
for reforming and strengthening the financial sector, while at the same time
pursuing tight monetary policy in support of the stabilization program.
2.38        Legal and Supervisory Framework.  Prggregs to Date.  Based on the
recent constitutional amendment affirming the State Bank as Czechoslovakia's
central bank, an adequate balance of responsibilities regarding the regulation
of financial servlces, including licensing new institutions, issuing prudential
requirements, conducting supervision, and imposing sanctions for violating rules
and regulations according to uniform standards has been worked out between the
Federal and Republic Ministries of Finance and the State Bank. Now drafts of
the Central Bank Act and the banking law are expected to be presented to
Parliament in September 1991. The State Bank is also undergoing an internal
reorganization the main features of which are expected to be decided shortly.
As a first step towards the compilation of management-oriented monetary
statistics and prudential supervision, supported by a comprehensive program of
IMF technical assistance, a new accounting plan and new reporting system were
implemented on January 1, 1991. Dome:tic banks are expected to fully comply
with the new accounting plan within two years. The reporting system serves as
the basis for routine off-site surveillance of the banks.
2.39       Action  to be Taken and Sus=orted under the SAL.  New draft banking
legislation will be submitted to the Parliament for enactment, and prudential
rules, the development of supervision and enforcement capabilities, and improve-
ments to the licensing process will be adopted by end-1991, prior to second
tranche release.
2.40        Institutional Development.  Progress to Date. A two-tier system was
established at the beginning of 1990 by divesting the commercial operations of
the State Bank into two commercial banks and an investment bank. The focus is
now on the financial restructuring and institutional development of the major
banking institutions. With a view to the medium-term development of the banking
system, full financial audits and management reviews will be undertaken. These
audits will be completed by end-1991 or mid-1992 at the latest.
2.41        The Government is currently preparing a financial sector reform
which focuses on:   (i) the further strengthening of the State Bank as the
institution responsible for sound monetary policy; and (ii) introduction of
basic banking services, with an initial emphasis on the strengthening of existing
institutions. A reform program for the State Bank has been initiated with the
assistance of the INF, the World Bank, and a number of foreign Central Banks.
The program includes the development of adequate skills and procedures in the
areas of monetary analysis and policy implementation, foreign exchange opera-
tions, bank supervision, and in the supporting of organizatitinal structure. In
early 1991, major improvements have been achieved in the area of monetary policy
and research. Since March 1, 1991 commercial banks are required to settle their
interbank transactions in the books of the State Bank which strengthens the
management of reserve money. Reserve requirements must now be observed as an
average over the month instead of daily. The State Bank has also begun to give
greater importance to refinancing auctions compared to granting overdraft faci-
lities subject to a quota with fixed interest rates, and treasury or State Bank
bills are expected to be issued in the next few months. These two actions will
help phase tn gradually market determined interest rates. The State Bank bas



- 17 -
also greatly improved the quantity and quality of the data it receives from the
banks and it generates itself, daily information is now collected on key finan-
cial variables. Work in the monEtary area has progressed satisfactorily, so that
the State Bank can start using market instruments to implement monetary policy.
The State Bank has also provided guidance in the development of an automated
payments clearing system for banks which is expected to be operational by the
end of 1991.
2.42        Actions to be Taken and Supported under the SAL.  The restructuring
of banks' balance sheets will be undertaken as rapidly as possible.   The
Goverrment acknowledges that a substantial fraction of the banks' loan portfolio
may prove uncollectible, and will develop appropriate contingency plans. The
Government also realizes that privatization of banks may require their prior
financial rehabilitation. Prior to third tranche release, the authorities will
define the governing principles to be used as a basis for addressing the inade-
quacies in the structure of the banking sector, the risk and potential losses
in the banks' portfolios, the corporatization and privatization of banks.
2.43        In support of longer-term sector development, the Government decided
to establish a training institute for banks with branches in Prague and
Bratislava. A medium-term training program will be ready for review by the
World Bank by the end of 1991.
Energy PoliJ=
2.44        The achievement of greater energy efficiency, driven by an ap-
propriate level and structure of prices, is an integral part of the overall
transformation process. Inefficient energy use and the heavy reliance on high-
sulphur coal and lignite have also been major pollution causes, especially in
Northern Bohemia. Many residential energy prices are too low, and the structure
of energy prices is distorted, strongly influenced by the low CMEA prices.
Virtually tne entire petroleum and natural gas needs and about 7 percent of
electricity needs have been met through imports from the USSR under bilateral
arrangements.
2.45        Pricing Policies.  The Government's energy pricing policy in the
long run is guided by the principles of (a) deregulating prices for oil, oil
products and coal, and liberalizing imports and exports of these products; and
(b) establishing an autonomous regulatory process for utilities (electricity,
heat, and natural gas), whereby tariffs will be set equal to economic costs.
Tariffs for tradeables (e.g., natural gas) will be set equal to international
prices plus transportation, storage and distribution costs, with passing through
of changes in international prices; and tariffs for non-tradeable goods and
services (e.g., electricity and heat) will be set equal to long run marginal
costs  (including  production/generation,   transportation/transmission,   and
distribution costs), passing through changes in input fuel prices based on a
fuel adjustme!nt clause. All energy products shall be subject to the Value Added
Tax (VAT) when it is established. Additional consumption taxes on transport
fuels will remain in place. The Government is also considering charging addi-
tional environmental taxes on coal, and possibly on some other fuels (e.g.,
gasoline and diesel).   All environmental costs related to the production,
transrportation and distribution of energy shall be borne entirely by the enter-



- 18 -
prises causing the damage, and be covered by tariffs and prices whenever they
are regulated. During an initial transition period prices and tariffs will be
progressively adjusted towards economic cost levels. Increases shall be made
in such a wa:V that the relative structure of p.ices for different types of
consumers reflect the relative structure of estimated economic costs to avoid
inefficient inter-fuel substitution.
2.46        Progress to Date.   Prices for oil and petroleum products were
increased4 in July, October, and December 1990, reaching the equivalent of US$30
per barrel of crude oil at the then prevailing exchange rate of Kcs 24 per US$1.
Import price changes for oil and oil products will be passed through on a monthly
basis. Bi-annual revisions of transport and distribution costs, to take into
account inflation and other cost changes, will enable the Government to adjust
these prices as appropriate. Taxes were changed from an ad-valo  (330 percent
over previous prices) to a specific rate, so as to have stable government revenue
and to limit the increase in consumer prices last December to the increase in
ex-refinery prices. Taxes are high by international standards and produce nearly
5 percent of GDP in budgetary revenue.
2.41        Following the energy price increases in December 1990, energy sales
to ndAusty are now close to their economic cost. Fuel coal (steam coal and
lignite) prices for industry were increased by 50 percent, and electricity and
natural gas tariffs for industry were increased by 53 percent and 143 percent,
respectively. In March 1991, the Government and the Bank jointly conducted a
preliminary review of rough estimates of long-run marginal costs of electricity
supply. It was found that electricity tariffs for industry (and other large
high-voltage customers) and for households amounted to about 90 percent and 55
to 60 percent of estimated LRMC respectively. The Government increased indus-
trial electricity prices by another 80 percent in April 1991, which raised high-
voltage prices to about 160 percent of estimated LRMC. As a result, the struc-
ture of electricity prices has become severely distorted: high-voltage tariffs
have become significantly higher than low-voltage ones, as the increased revenue
needs of power supply companies have been recovered primarily from industrial
consumers.
2.48        Action to he Taken and Supported under the SAL. Prior to the second
tranche release, a least-cost investment program will be prepared, and a long-
run marginal cost study for electricity will be completed. On the basis of this
study a suitable pricing structure will be developed to be achieved over the
following two years or so. Average tariffs for industrial cons.mers will be at
least equal to their calculated long-run marginal ro't, and electricity tariffs
for household consumers will be raised roughly by 70 percent, narrowing the gap
between prices for industrial consumers and households. At the time of the
second tranche release, therefore, the gap between average industrial and house-
hold prices will be smaller than it was in April 1991. Until recently energy
prices for households were considerably below their estimated economic costs.
On May 1, 1991, the Government raised heat, coal, and gas prices for households
by more than 100 percent (324 percent for heat, 233 percent for coal and 135
percent for gas). As a result, natural gas rates are some two-thirds of their
estimated economic costs of border prices, plus transmission and distribution
costs, heat rates from coal thermal sources, and coal prices for households are



- 19 -
equal to the prices for producers. Most current budgetary subsidies to the
corresponding utilities and enterprises have thus been eliminated.
2.49        Regulation of Utilities. Utilities in charge of supplyitng electrici-
ty, heat, and natural gas to consumars enjoy natural monopolistic powers and thus
require some type of governmental supervision, though not operational control.
A system of "economic regulation" shall be put into place, whereby the companies'
financial soundness and operational autonomy will be assured, but at the same
time preserving the quality of service provided and the rights of consumers.
Health, safety, and environmental impact shall also be regulated through this
system. The Government will prepare and review with the Bank a plan of action
for establishing regulatory institutions, processes and methods for the power,
heat and gas subsectors by end-1991. A Public Utilities Law wovld establish the
legal predicate and procedures for economic regulations of enterprises which
produce, transport, and distribute electric energy, natural gas, town gas and
thermal (heat) energy.  The Law would define the scope of regulation; the
procedures fo: impleminting the legislation; and the structure, powers and
jurisdiction of the regulating bodies. The draft Law, after review with the
Bank, will be submitted to Parliament prior to third tranche release. Their
first assignment will be the adoption of a Code of Regulations, that would define
the procedures to be used to establish and update tariffs and to monitor
operations of the regulated utilities, as well as the system of accounts and
reports to be used by such enterprises. The regulating agencies will also codify
regulations for the protection of public health, safety, and the environment.
nvidronmen
2.50        Progress to Date. The Government considers improving the environ-
W=nt an integral part of the transformation process, and issued an environmental
policy statement in 1990. Improvements in economic efficiency resulting from
economic pricing and commercialization and privatization of enterprises are
expected to reduce pollution while only creating a minimal additional financial
burden. Adjustment of all energy prices to long-run marginal costs or interna-
tional prices will go a long way towards pollution abatement
2.51        Actions to be Taken and Swn,orted under the SAL. A new Envirormen-
tal Law which determines the relative responsibilities for protecting the
environment, the level and structure of environmental standards and financing
modes for environmental protection, will be submitted to Parliament by the end
of 1991. In addition, specific laws for protecting the air, water, nature, and
for waste management will be implemented. By mid-1992, the Federal and Republic
governments will introduce environmental assessment procedures consistent with
international practice to be applied to all new public and private investments.
By the end of 1991, the Government will prepare a medium-term environmental
action program that will:  (a) spell out emission standards and a system of
fees, fines, prices and taxes which are based on the "polluter pays" principle
and that reflect the social costs of polluting; (b) prepare pilot projects for
identifying decentralized management of air and water quality at the regional
level; and (c) develop means for greater public participation in environmental
decision-making, including access to information. Public resources generated
from pollution charges, fines, and fees will be used to finance environmental



- 20 -
projects. The Government is also considering issuing special envmironmental
bonds through which local authorities could raise funds for environmental
investments.
Labor Market and Soclal Sectors
2.52        The implementation of Czechoslovakia's transformation program will
entail large-scale unemployment. To mitigate the impact upon individuals and
their families, and also to ensure that political support for the reforms is
not compromised, the Government has created a safety net comprising interrelated
measures in the areas of income support, employment services and creation,
training, education, and health. Another important strategic element is the
development of the human capital base to generate and sustain a supply response.
The Government recognizes that profound structural change is required in the
education, training, and health sectors to achieve greater relevance to emerging
needs, effectiveness, and efficiency. Both sets of policy measures reinforce
and depend upon labor market liberalization and flexible wage determination.
2.53        Wage  Polic.  Progress to Date.  The Government's wage policy in
1991 and 1992 has two objectives:   ensuring that inflation is not fueled by
undue wage increases, and encouraging differentiation of individual wages to
reflect differences in productivity. The preswnt system of wage setting in the
public seceo_ comprises: a system of tariff wages; a minimum wage of Kcs2,000
per month established on February 1, 1991, and fully indexed to price changes
for the rest of the year, under the terms of the General Agreement signed with
the trade unions and employers association on January 20, 1991; and a system
of punitive taxation for wage increases above a specified amount in the total
wage bill of an enterprise. In the grivate sector, there is a system of a few
minimum hourly tariff wage rates (in addition to the overall monthly minimum wage
requirement), and most firms are exempt from constraints on the total enterprise
wage bill.S
2.54        The Government recognizes that some of these features are incom-
patible with the longer-term requirements of a market economy, and therefore
plans a number of changes. FirgD, discussions are being held on a set of new
public-sector wage setting proposals, and in order to relate more closely wages
to individual productivity, the tariff wage system will be abolished. Wages
within a firm will be freely negotiated through collective bargaining subject
to three forms of constraint: there would continue to be a mininum wage; there
would be wage premiums, e.g. for overtime (these follow ILO conventions); and
there would be a few additional wage premiums (e.g. for underground work).
Sagn, the Government recognizes that the present minimum wage is too high,V
i/   Because the private sector is presently small, this poses no threat to
macro stabilization.
Z/    The Government's proposal for the minimum wage was Kcsl,600, which was
roughly the amount being offered for unskilled job vacancies registered
in the Employment Offices in December 1990. The higher figure that
resulted from negotiations between unions, employers, and the Government
as recorded in the General Agreement of January 20, 1991, was necessary
to ensure labor union support for the reform program.



- 21 -
compresses wage differentials, and tends to reduce the employment prospects of
low-productivity workers. In April, it therefore proposed to change the General
Agreement in two aspects: withdrawing (in both public and private sectors) the
full indexation of the minimum wage end replacing it with a one-time 10 percent
increase to Kcs2,200 on May 1, 1991, with no further increase for the rest of
this year; and, from January 1, 1992, reserving for itself the prerogative to
set the minimum wage, without resort to tripartite negotiations. However, no
agreement has yet been reached on this proposal. lbiX , the Government proposes
to continue the constraints on enterprise wage bills, with liberalization in the
public sector in two ways from January 1, 1992: wage increases paid out of
profits would no longer be constrained; and compliance with the constraints
would be monitored on an annual rather than quarterly basis. The Government is
also proposing to remove the remaining constraints on private-sector wage bills
(on firms with more than 25 employees and those entered in the register of
private establishments).
2.55        Actions to be Taken and Supported by the SAL. The Government intends
to abolish full indexation of the minimum wage (so that over 1991 the minimum
wage would rise by less than the average wage) while at the same time expanding
the social assistance program and making it more effective through improved
targeting.   Prior to second tranche release, state controls on gorss wage
formation would be limited to the minimum wage in the private sector, and the
minimum wage and regulation of total enterprise wage bills in all other enter-
prises. The constraints on public enterprise total wage bills should be broadly
unchanged from present arrangements through 1992: in particular, wage increases
paid out of profits should not be excluded from restraints on public-sector
enterprise wage bills, since it will not have been possible entirely to elimina-
te abuse of monopoly market positions. The current rigid tariff wage system will
be replaced by a flexible wage structure that reflects market-determined
productivity differentials.  The resulting system should be complemented by
regulations to codify norms for collective bargaining.
2.56        Inme Maintenac. To ensure the unemployed and destitute minimally
adequate standards of living, while simultaneously providing incentives for indi-
viduals to reduce reliance on the state as quickly as possible, three challen-
ges must be met: (a) provision of temporary income support for the unemployed;
(b) the institutional development of a social assistance program for individuals
who have exhausted their entitlement to other benefits and/or whose income for
whatever reason is insufficient for a socially acceptable standard of life; and
(c) reform of the social insurance system (pensions for the elderly, widowed,
disabled, orphans; sick pay; family and maternity allowances). All three sets
of reform are critical to ensuring that the system of income support offers
adequate poverty relief in a way which is affordable, minimizes distortions to
labor supply and employment, is capable of inexpensive and effective administra-
tion, and is equitably financed.
2.57        Adequacy of Budgetary Provision.  The 1991 budget projects expen-
diture on all cash benefits of Kcsl65 billion (13.8 percent of GDP). Bank esti-
mates suggast that benefit expenditure will be at least Kcsl77 billion. Even



- 22 -
this figure could be an understatement, since it takes no account of substantial
increases in social assistance expenditure on the grounds that the revised system
is unlikely to be put into effect during 1991. A considerably more stringent
targeting is therefore needed to ensure that the benefit system is affordable.
2.58        UnemDlovment Benefits.   Progre.  to Date.   The Employment Act of
December 4, 1990 introduced budgetary income support for the unemployed and an
active labor market policy for the transition period and beyond. Under supple-
mentary Republic laws, unemployment benefit is normally payable at 60 percent
of last wage for up to a yeat, with no upper limit on the level of benefit, to
any claimant who has been employed for at least twelve months during the previous
three years.IV
2.59        Current budgetary provision is based on the assumption of an annual
average of 189,000 unemployed individuals, an average replacement rate of 84
percent,31 and an eligibility rate for benefit of 100 percent. There are three
broad sets of reasons why unemployment is likely to be substantially higher:
the scope and strength of the reform program; negative exogenous factors, the
demise of the CMEA in particular, and optimism in the official estimates of
expansion of private-sector employment. Registered unemployment stood already
at 184,612 at the end of March 30, 1991, and has been accelerating.   The
Government's high-case scenario suggests that unemployment by the end of 1991
could exceed one million, with an annual average of over 400,000. Even if the
average replacement rate is a more realistic 68 percent and only 80 percent of
unemployed individuals are eligible for benefit, Bank staff estimates that the
cost of unemployment benefit could exceed official estimates by up to Kcs2.5
billion in 1991.
2.60        Actions to be Taken and SuRgorted by the SAL. Given the likely cost
of unemployment benefits, the targeting of unemployment benefits requires tighte-
ning in at least three ways. The Government has therefore decided to limit the
unemployment benefit payable to any individual to a maximum related to the net
average wage, a policy to be implemented before end 1991. The Government also
plans by then to (a) restrict the coverage to those who ha.e actually been
dismissed from employment, with the possible exception of school leavers and
(b) modify the replacement rate (i.e. benefits in relation to prior income) to
create a larger wedge between pure income support and retraining allowances, to
increase the incentive for individuals to undergo training and to return to work.
2.61        Retraining the Unemployed.   Progress to Date.  According to the
Employment Act, the Ministries of Labor and Social Affairs are responsible for
2/    Structurally unemployed workers receive 65 percent of their previous
wage for the first six months; vocational training allowances are 70
percent of the previous wage. These figures exceed the Federal minimum
of 60 percent of previous wage for the first six months and 50 percent
for the next six.
2/   This figure is a relic of the budgetary calculation in late 1990 when,
prior to coming into effect of the Employment Act on February 1, 1991,
unemployment benefit was paid at 90 percent of previous wage.



- 23 -
retraining the registered unemployed to prepare them for jobs ln new occupa-
tions.JI  Whilst not themselves providing training, Employment Offices are
charged with identifying priority local needs, selecting training providers
(from among existing schools and universities, and enterprises and adult training
organizations in the public and private sectors), financing training contracts,
and evaluating outcomes of training programs. These activities have started only
very slowly, first because the unemployed typically still feel they will find
new jobs using their old skills and, second, because Employment Office staff are
too few in number and professionally unqualified to identify training needs and
organize programs. The problem is compounded by (a) the collapse of the previous
enterprise-based system for financing pre-employment vocational education and
training, and (b) the arrival on the labor market of new waves of graduates from
the inappropriately structured and oriented secondary school system, which
provides over half the age cohort with narrowly focussed, and now largely
irrelevant, industrial skills.
2.62        Actions to be Taken and Sunnorted by the SAL.  Before end 1991,
Government plans to improve the administrative infrastructure for delivery of
unemployment benefits training taking into account the following guidelines: (a)
a minimum of 25 percent of the funds available to Employment Offices are used
for active labor market programs, including retraining so as to protect their
budgets from being siphoned off by the need to pay unemployment benefit, and (b)
training contracts made by the Employment Offices include job placement
performance criteria, thereby assuring a closer fit between demand and supply
of particular skills acquired through Employment Office finance. Also prior to
second tranche release, the Government will prepare legislation to implement a
new training finance policy under which enterprises will share the costs of
occupation-specific job training either by providing it directly or by
contributing towards a fund used for that purpose.
2.63        Pension Benefits.   Progress to Date.  Pensions for the elderly,
disabled and survivors currently absorb Kcs80.5 billion, paid out of the budget.
Benefits depend on length of service, sex and occupational classification, the
formula being redistributive towards lower income groups.   For workers in
industry and various other groups, there is no retirement test for the receipt
of benefit. Some groups of workers may retire early (from age 55 for men or 53
for woment). Because of price liberalization, special indexation provisions for
pensions were specified by law together with a minimum pension for those with
no other source of income of Kcsl,440 per month (Kcs2,400 for a couple) from
March 1, 1991, to which, as discussed below, must be added general income
support.
2.64        The Government has various plans for change.  A draft law planned
to become effective in January 1992 proposes to withdraw pension from in-
dividuals who continue working.  For such individuals pension entitlement would
increase by 7.5 percent for each year by which retirement is deferred, up to a
maximum of five years.  Thereafter, full pension would be paid even if the
individual continues to work. The draft law allows the Republics to specify
Q/   The Ministries of Education are responsible for all pre-employment
education and training and for adult continuing education.



- 24 -
exceptions.  Another draft law proposes that, with effect from January 1993
(i.e. concurrently with the introduction of personal income taxation), there
should be a social insurance fund separate from the budget, funded by a social
insurance contribution separate from income tax.
2.65        Current budgetary provision is based on the Government's late 1990
projections of inflation, and on the assumption that the inflow into retirement
would follow past trends. Price increases in early 1991 have, however, been
somewhat higher than expected. In addition, experience in OECD and other coun-
tries in transition suggests a substantial rise in new beneficiaries, in parti-
cular for invalidity pensions, in the face of sharply rising unemployment. Bank
staff therefore estimates that pension expenditures in 1991 could amount to
Kcs83.5 billion rather than Kcs8O.5 billion as budgeted by the authorities.
2.66        Actions to be Taken and SunRorted by the SAL.  Given the importance
of pensions in terms both of expenditure and of the protection they provide for
a particularly vulnerabJe group, targeting is again vital. The Government's
policy with regard to pensions during 1991 and 1992 is therefore (a) to provide
adequate and timely indexation of pensions; (b) to apply a target indexation
approach, raising the minimum pension level in line with changes in the price
level, but pensions above the minimum at most in line with changes in average
earnings; and (c) to make appropriate budgetary adjustments if current financial
provisions for indexation prove inadequate. By second tranche release, legisla-
tion should have been passed withdrawing pension for the first five years of
retirement from individuals who continue to work. By third tranche release
legislation should have been passed introducing a single and common social insu-
rance fund. The last condition is critical to the development of a federation-
wide labor market and also of a federation-wide capital market (given the
Government's expressed desire to introduce complementary, private pensions both
to aid the privatization process and to assist the speedy development of capital
markets).
2.67        Sick Pa.  Progress to Date.  An individual absent from work for
health reasons receives sick pay, mostly at a rate of 90 percent of his/her
wage. The benefit is paid from the budget, and budgetary provision for sick pay
amounts to KcslO.4 billion in 1991. Since the benefit is more generous than
unemployment benefit, potentially unemployed individuals have an incentive to
go on to sick pay; and since the benefit is paid out of public funds, employers
have no incentive to resist such a claim and indeed find this a less onerous way
to shed labor than to dismiss it.
2.68        Current budgetary provision, as with pensions, is based on past
trends and takes no account of the likely effect of rising unemploy-ment on the
number of beneficiaries and the average duration of receipt. Official estimates
assume only a slight increase in the number of beneficiaries and a slight fall
in duration. The assumption is falsified by the preliminary outcomes for the
second half of 1990, which show an equivalent annual increase of nearly 7
percent. In addition, since sick pay is tied to wages, higher than expected
inflation adds to costs. Conservative assumptions of expenditure on sick pay
is likely to exceed the budgeted amount by Kcs2.2 billion.



v 25 -
2.69        ActIons to be Taken and Supported by the SAL.  By end-1991, the
Government will introduce legislation, with effect from January 1992, to adjust
the financing of sick pay so that the cost of the first four weeks of sickness
falls upon the enterprise, compensated by an equivalent reduction in the payroll
tax obligation of the firm.
2.70        Family Benefits.  Progress to Date.  Alongside various maternity
benefits is a system of family allowances, paid out of the budget for all
children up to age 15 (up to 26 if in full-time education). The benefit per
child rises to a peak for the third child and then declines. The benefit for
a two child family (about 9 percent of average wage per child)WV is high compared
to an international standard of 2.5 to 4 percent. Family allowance amounting
to almost Kcs25 billion in 1991 has not been increased since 1985, there are no
plans to index it, and the Government has the firm intention not to increase the
benefit. Current budgetary provision is probably adequate, since the benefit
is not indexed and family size does not display the short-run endogeneity of
entry to retirement or sick pay. Maternity benefits, however, are likely to be
underbudgeted for twt- reasons: a recent change in eligibility rules increased
the number of beneficiaries by some 40,000 (for which no provision is made in
the budget); and the level of benefit, being tied to wages, will be higher due
to the higher-than-expected price increases in early 1991.   The resulting
increase in expenditure has been estimated at about Kcs1.4 billion.
2.71        Actions to be Taken and Supported under the SAL.  Since a high level
of family allowance takes over part of the function which, in a market economy,
is played by wages, it is appropriate that the level of family allowance should
fall, as will happen in real terms assuming the Government will remain firm in
not indexing the benefit. The Government intends to carry out a thorough review
of family support in connection with the introduction of an effective system of
social assistance (discussed below) and the tax reform.
2.72        Social Assistance.  Progress to Date.  Social assistance has been
a benefit of last resort mainly for the frail elderly, the handicapped, and
families with social problems. The system is organized and financed at local
levels, and relies heavily on detailed assessment by social workers of individual
needs and individual resources; assistance is often provided in kind. The social
assistance system has not previously been used to deliver income support to large
numbers of people whose only major problem is inadequate income.
2.73        Current budgetary provision is Kcs2.9 billion (0.2 percent of GDP).
Though there are no official estimates, a full-fledged system of social
,U/   This figure excludes  general income support paid for each child, which
if added would raise the untargeted support per child in a two child
family to 13 percent of the average wage.



- 26 -
ssistance could require an additional Kcs7.5 billion (0.6 percent of GDP). *
The system of social assistance is, however, unlikely to expand substantially
in 1991, so that its cost is likely to become an important cost factor only for
the 1992 budget.
2.74        Actions to be Taken and Supnorted by the SfL.  The system of social
assistance must be adapted so it can cope with a new client group: unemployed
individuals and their families whose entitlement to unemployment benefit has
expired, together with other individuals/families with very low incomes. The
group has two key characteristics: it typically does not require highly indivi-
dualized social work; and it is large, making such individualized care impossi-
ble. What is needed is a fairly automatic system of processing large numbers
of applications for benefit. Beyond computerized data processing, such a system
requires the development of regulations (e.g. definitions of income and of the
benefit unit) that are sufficiently explicit for benefit assessment to be carried
out by relatively unskilled personnel. To this end, the Government will by
second tranche release introduce legislation and draft necessary regulations
for a uniform framework for social assistance, so that the system can be fully
functioning not later than by the third tranche release.
2.75        The framework would include: (a) a federation-wide benefit level (at
somewhat below the minimum pension),iU and (b) a system in which costs would be
shared between the different levels of government. An important obstacle is the
fact that social assistance in a planned economy was always a local responsi-
bility; thus social assistance, for historical reasons, lies within the
competence of the Czech and Slovak Republics. In a market economy, however, the
framework must be nationwide, even if administration is local. To bring this
about, the Government has recently announced its intention to speed up the
introduction of social assistance by making adequate budgetary provision to meet
the start-up costs of the expanded system (accommodation, equipment, personnel).
The purpose of such action and of the ambitious timetable is threefold: it
ensures a comon framework; it is vital to coping with the large and increasing
number of unemployed individuals whose entitlement to unemployment benefit will
expire; and it yields major resource savings through the reduction in the real
value of family allowance and replacement of general income support (expendi-
tures on these two benefits together amount to Kcs6O billion).   Successful
IV    To illustrate the provenance of that figure, assume an unemployment rate
of 15 percent, of which 50 percent are long-term unemployed (i.e.
entitlement to unemployment benefit has expired after the first year of
unemployment), and a take-up rate of 50 percent. Thus some 3.75 percent
of the labor force apply for social assistance (conservative by OECD
standards). With a means-tested benefit set close to the minimum
pension, expenditure would be around KcsS billion, to which must be
added the cost of supporting families and other groups in poverty.
J>/  An alternative approach to defining the level of social assistance would
be to set it at the cost of a minimum basket of goods. Not the least of
the difficulties of that approach is the tendency throughout Central and
Eastern Europe to specify a basket which is too generous to be aftor-
dable (e.g. by including such non-subsistence items as a television).



- 27 -
targeting and savings from these two expenditure categories depend critically
upon the introduction of an effective system of social assistance.
2.76        Benefit Administration.   PrognUL  gDe.  The Government has
consolidated its benefit provision into three main categories: social insurance,
unemployment benefits, and social assistance as an income-tested benefit of last
resort. Networks of local offices have been established for the delivery of
each of the three categories of benefit.   However, in light of the likely
increased burden on these offices as the economic transformation progresses,
further strengthening of these service delivery points is necessary. Actigns
to be Taken and SuMported under the SAL. To this end, the Government plans that
by end 1991: (a) adequate staffing ratios will be achieved and maintained in the
Employment Offices, and (b) training programs will be in place. Ratios of one
staff member for each 60 persons registered as unemployed, and in the Social
Assistance Offices, of one staff member for each 100 benefit claimants, and a
minimum of one trainer for each 200 staff to be trained, will serve as guidelines
for the authorities. This will require some increase over current limits in the
personnel and budgets of the Ministries of Labor and Social Affairs.
2.77        General Income Sunnort.  Progress to Date.  In connection with the
removal of the subsidies on foodstuff in mid-1990, the Government introduced
general income payments in the form of a monthly payment of Kcs 140 to every
citizen. An additional monthly payment of Kcs 50 to children and pensioners has
been budgeted for July 1, 1991 in the context of the planned elimination of the
residential heating subsidy, and a proposal to increase this additional amount
to Kcs 80 is under consideration. Payments budgeted for these purposes amount
to almost Kcs33 billion in 1991.
2.78        Actions to be Taken and Suongrted by the            The Government
considers these transfer payments as transitory and intends to eliminate them
by January 1, 1993 in connection with the planned reform, pensions and other
public programs. In the meantime, these general income support payments will
decline in 1991 in order to provide resources to fill the gaps in other programs
noted above. Prior to second tranche release, Government plans to announce its
decision to replace general income support at the latest by January 1, 1993 by
such targeted benefits as social assistance. To ensure administrative efficiency
in the delivery of benefits, the Employment and Social Assistance Offices will
be staffed adequately.
2.79        Core Human Cagital Sectors.  Czechoslovakia's systems of education
and training, health and scientific research and technological development all
fail to address significant needs of a market economy and are chronically waste-
ful. Systemic restructuring and redirection are essential for generating and
sustaining the needed supply response in the new economic environment. The
Government understands that to ensure the needed human capital base a few years
hence, action must be initiated now.
2.80        Actions to be Taken and Suonorted under the SAL.  The Government's
strategy has two main elements: on the one hand, it seeks to establish a
framework of incentives to motivate the needed changes, primarily through its
fiscal powers. As a practical matter in the short term, this means placing
education and health sectors under extreme budgetary pressure, so that they



- 28 -
recognize and act to remedy the most glaring inefficiencies in resource use.
Once this adjustment is well launched, investment will a required to improve
current programs and initiate new ones to consolidate efficiency gains, increase
relevance and enhance effectiveness. On the other hand, through removal of the
vestiges of the old system in the social sectors, the strategy seeks to ensure
that the necessary authority and accountability to respond to those incentives
are placed unambiguously in the hands of institution managers, who will become
directly responsible for developing their establishments. Excellent first steps
in this respect for education have already been taken on the legislative front
with passage in 1990 of new framework laws for general and higher education; new
legislation for health and scientific research is under preparation.
2.81        The Bank has prepared a series of working papers that, taken
together, constitute a broad social sector review. The authorities are now
studying these papers and Republic governments have expressed interest in further
discussing these topics. In the coming months, the Federal authorities will
decide whether and in what form limited Bank resources should be used to address
some of the issues emerging in the social sectors. In implementing its general
strategy, the Government plans to establish: (a) a new system of allocation of
public funds to higher education and to scientific research based on perfor-
mance-related, transparent, and public criteria which drav the two subsectors
into closer collaboration; (b) mechanisms for increased (but still very partial)
recovery of costs from beneficiaries of higher education and curative health
services provided in public institutions; (c) a framework for operating both
public and private sectors in financing and service provision in higher educa-
tion and health (including the design of a national health insurance system).
The Government plans also to abolish restrictions on the use of public funds in
the health and higher education and scientific research sectors to allow managers
to reallocate resources within global budgets, and to allow institutions to
benefit from additional revenues they are able to earn for themselves. By second
tranche release, Government will have completed and discussed with the Bank a
study of options for reform of secondary education and pre-employment vocational
training, which is possibly the most acute problem now at hand, and for which
technical assistance from the European Community is likely to be available.
PART III - SHORT AND MEDIUM-TERM  OUTLOOK.XTERNAL FINANCING NEEDS. AND
CREDITWORTHINESSIV
3.1         The Bank has discussed the macroeconomic framework outlined below
with the Government and reached broad agreement on the level, structure and
trend of the macroeconomic indicators. The projections are based on the staff's
assessment of Czechoslovakia's medium-term economic prospects and on the initial
results of the transformation program in the first months of 1991. We will
closely monitor developments during the coming months in order to be able to
JA/  See Tables 1-3.



- 29 -
consult with the authorlties if and when additional and corrective policy
measures will have to be taken to achieve the objectives supported by the SAL.
3.2         Real Econo9m  - Short Term.   Over the next few years, Czechos-
lovakia's economy will undergo massive shifts in the allocation of resources
resulting in major structural changes. While it i8 generally believed that the
country started the transition to a market economy from a relatively strong
position, it is now well recognized that adjustment to a new set of incentives
and the integration into world markets will take time and be painful. The
Government's policy measures aim therefore at raising economic welfare quickly
by improving incentives and competition in ways that enhance the efficient
allocation of resources and productivity.
3.3         A number of factors are expected to produce a large contraction of
economic activity and a deterioration of external accounts in 1991 and 1992:
fundamental changes in ownership structure and economic incentives imply impor-
tant changes in industrial organization, management techniques, and employment
requirements; the collapse of trade with former CMEA partners and an anticipated
17 percent decline in the terms of trade will requlre major reallocation of
resources; in addition, substantial reductions in government subsidies, capital
expenditures, and consumption spending will adversely affect specific sectors
and induce structural adjustment. Consequently, the Bank staff projects a fall
in GDP of about 10 percent in 1991 and an additional fall of 5 percent in 1992.
Furthermore, the decontrol and subsequent sharp jump in consumer prices in the
first quarter of 1991 has helped produce a fall- in real wages that is an-
ticipated to be about 10 percent in 1991. The fall in real wages, unemployment
that could reach 10 percent of the labor force by the end of 1991, and a budgeted
drop of 32 percent in real government consumption expenditures are expected to
reduce total r&al per gita consumnti   by 14 percent in 1991 and by an
additional 5 percent in 1992. This compares with an annual average increase of
3.4 percent during 1987-90.  Pri te Rex cngita conmpti  has been projected
to fall about 4 percent on average during 1991-1992 and is forecast to reach its
1990 level only by 1997. Due to a sound &ocial safety net and an anticipated
decline in private savings, the fall in real private consumption is expected to
be smaller than the decline in total output in 1991. Total gross investment has
been projected to fall from close to 30 percent of GDP in the late 1980s to 20
percent in 1991, and recover to 23 percent of GDP on average towards the mid-
1990s. The projected drop in investment reflects tight fiscal and monetary
policies, increased uncertainty about the new economic environment, and a drawing
down of stocks built up under central planning and particularly in 1990.
Moreover, public infrastructure investment has also been projected to undergo
significant cuts in 1991 and 1992, reflecting a reduction from comparatively high
previous levels as the state withdraws from many activities it was engaged in
under central planning and also reflecting tight budgetary considerations. But,
improved economic incentives, better monitoring mechanisms, and generally lower
inventory levels will enhance the efficient allocation of investment funds.
Investment ruins" in particular, typical of Czechoslovakia's past investment
behavior, can be expected to disappear.   Furthermore, most initial private
entrepreneurial activities will be in services and other areas that typically
do not require large capital investments.



- 30 -
I:loJ1: Key   Sconme Indicator
iee0    1991    1992    1993    1994    19S5     109o-2000
(auuala percenta&, he)
GOP at Market prices                   -3.5   -10.0   -5.0      3.3     5.2     5.6         5.6
(constant 190 prices)
hareuXlture                         -2.6   -9.5    -5.3      0.8     2.8     3.3         4.8
Industry                           -5.8   -24.1  -16.9       0.4     5.0     5.8         5.6
8.rviceo                             0.3     9.0     6.2     5.8     5.7     5.7         5.7
Total cansuwption per capita           -1.5   -14.1   -4;7      0.4     2.5     3.0         4.9
Usti of per capita private cosunaption   1.00    0.97    0.92    0.92    0.92    0.94       1.08
to 1900 level  I/
Merchandise eaporta                    -4.6  -32.5      3.8     5.3     6.5     6.5         6.5
Ferchbadise Importa                    11.0  -41.0      1.0     3.3     5.3     5.6         5.8
199    IS91         1992    1893    1994    1995      2000
(percent of GDP) 2/
Groas iuvostment/U)P                   30.0    19.8    19.9    21.1    22.2    23.4          23.5
Goverant                             4.5     3.6     3.6     3.5     3.5     3.5           3.4
Private  3/                         25.6    16.1   16.4    17.6    18.8    19.9           20.1
iaticual savings/U)P                  27.0    15.0    16.5    18.2    19.6    21.0           22.8
Government                           7.5     5.7     4.1     3.8     3.8     3.6           3.4
Private  3/                         19.5     9.3   12.4    14.3    15.8    17.4           19.4
saviags-Investment Gap                 -3.0    -4.7    -3.5    -2.9   -2.8    -2.4           -0.7
Government                           3.0     2.1     0.5     0.3     0.3     0.1           0.0
Private  3/                         -6.1    -6.8   -4.0    -3.3    -2.9   -2.5            -0.7
Current account                        -3.0   -4.7    -3.5    -2.9    -2.6   -2.4           -0.7
Nsrchaudiao exports                    26.4    24.9    27.2    27.7    28.1    29.3          20.6
Merchandise imports                    29.8    29.1    31.0    31.0    31.0    31.0          31.0
current accont (US$ Mlions)        -1339.3 -2011.6 -1417.9 -1231.5 -1189.5 -1171.6         -569.6
Gss reServes in months of imors         1.6     1.6     1.9     2.1     2.3     2.4          2.0
of goode and services 4/
1/ Per capita private conumtion is pojected to reach its 1990 level In 1997.
2/ Shan$ are computed In current prices.
3/ Ptivate includes enterprises snd households.
4/ 1000 fiure La basd m convertible currency imports only. VraM 1991 on, all.O1 ort    In
covertible currecy.
3.4            Both  industrial  and  agricultural  output  are  expected  to  fall
significantly in. 1991 and 1992. Heavy industry, especially armaments, but also
transport and other equipment goods that had traditionally been exported to
former  CMEA  countries  can  be  expected  to  undergo  strong  contractions.
Agricultural production has also been projected to decline markedly over the next
two years as subsidies are cut. Services can be expected to grow rapidly over
the next. few years thereby absorbing some of the labor set free in industry and
agriculture.
3.5            The expected massive disruption of forgiga  trade will be the single
most important contractionary force on total output over the nec. two or three
years. Like other central and east European economies, Czechoslovakia is facing



- 31 -
the challenge of integrating its economy into the world economy and conducting
trade with former CEHA trading partners in convertible currencies at jorld
prLces, while these countries are ael undergoing severe stabilization and
adjustment crises themselves. The perqanent 'terms of trade loss' due to the
move to world prices in former GMEA trade has been estimated at over US$5 billion
in 1991 (assuming no trads level changes), l.e. almost 12 percent of projected
GDP.WV Although Czechoslovakia's skilled labor force, competitive wage and
exchange rate levels and favorable geographical position can be expected to
induce its industry to become more export oriented in the medium term, important
constraints will prevent lt from achieving such a turnaround in the short term.
The capital needed to upgrade industrial technology on a massive scale is only
slowly forthcoming, and the formation of a modern managerial capacity will take
time. Market determined prices that are replacing heavily subsidized prices are
only beginning to provide investors and producers with reliable information
needed to calculate potential profits. In many cases products that have been
successfully exported to CMEA countries for many years, particularly to the
Soviet Union, will have to be redesigned or be substantially upgraded, before
they can be exported to new markets. But even after such quality upgrading
exports of a large number of Czechoslovakia's potential industrial products
cannot be expanded rapidly because the absorptive capacity of world markets for
these items is often limited (tramways, turbines, locomotives, tools etc.).
Czechoslovakia's underdeveloped infrastructure in support of exports such as
export credits, export insurance schemes or even fast and instant world wide
telecommunication systems is another important handicap to expanding exports
quickly.
3.6         In 1991, real merchandise exDortg have been projected to decline by
almost 33 percent, after having already fallen by some 5 percent a year during
1989-90. This strong decline is mainly due to the loss of markets in the former
CKMA countries; the volume of exports to these countries has been projected to
decline by over 60 percent in 1991.  Real exports to the Soviet Union are
expected to reach only 40 percent of their 1990 level, and Czechoslo;akia's
small merchandise trade surplus in 1990 with the Soviet Union is expected to turn
into a deficit of US$1.3 billion in 1991 - in spite of a projected 40 percent
drop in Soviet oil deliveries. Real exports to developed western economies rose
almost 5 percent a year in 1989 and 1990, but are not projected to rise in real
terms in 1991. The lack of real export growth to industrializeo countries prima-
rily reflects the disruption of domestic economic activity during the initial
stages of the transformation process, a 200-300 percent increase in domestic
energy prices that will severely and adversely affect domestic industries, and
the general slowing of world economic activity in 1991. The volume of trade with
developing countries, accounting for approximately 9 percent of Czechoslovakia's
2~/ The move to international oil prices alone will cost Czechoslovakia
approximately an additional US$1 billion in 1991 (assuming the same oil
import quantities from the Soviet UnLon as in 1990, i.e., 13 million
tons and an average oil price of US$20.5 per barrel). Since the Soviet
Union and Czechoslovakia have agreed on delivery of only 7.5 million
tons of oll for 1991, the country may have to import some 5 or 6 million
tons from sources that involve higher transactions and transportation
costs.



- 32 -
foreign trade, has been projected to decline by over 20 percent in 1991.
Although supported by strong currency devaluations in 1990 (para. 2.12) exports
have been projected to grow at only moderate rates until 1994 before they can
be expected to expand at rates between 6 and 7 percent in the second half of the
decade, as Czechoslovakia finds and exploits its areas of comparative advantage
and as major trading blocks reduce trade restrictions on Czechoslovakia's
exports.
3.7         loorla are projected to decline strongly in 1991 due to an expected
10 percent fall in GDP, an almost 60 percent rise in import prices, a 15 percent
temporary import surcharge on consumer goods, enterprise uncertainty regarding
restructuring goals, substantially higher prices of Industrial inputs, and an
expected de-stocking of inventories built-up during 1990. The volume of imports
't-om former CMEA countries have been projected to fall by some 60 percent in
1991, but the trade deficit with those countries is expected to almost double,
reaching US$1.6 billion, because of the terms of trade deterioration.  The
overall trade deficit has been projected to grow from US$1.5 billion in 1990 to
US$1.8 billion in 1991, due mainly to a 17 percent deterioration in the terms
of trade.
3.8         The projected rapid deterioration of the current account from a
surplus of about 2 percent of GDP on average during 1988-89 to a projected 4.7
percent deficit in 1991 is due to the dramatic terms-of-trade deterioration in
1991 and dislocation in traditional export markets. It reflects the fall in the
non-government savings rates. The fall in private household savings from 3
percent of GDP in 1990 to 2.2 percent in 1991 is due to the projected decline
in household income. State-owned enterprises will be facing a totally different
economic and financial environment in 1991 and thereafter. Most of their input
prices will be several times higher than in previous years which is due to the
reduction or elimination of subsidies, a realistic exchange rate, and world
market prices for raw materials.   Servicing enterprise  debt has become
considerably more expensive with the recent substantial rise in interest rates.
Most importantly, state-owned enterprises are not likely to succeed in adjusting
their production and sales in the short term. Tight monetary policy and the
hardening of the budget constraint, are expected to lead to a sharp drop in
economic activity, losses, and bankruptcies. Enterprise savings have therefore
been projected to decline from 18 percent of GDP during 1987-90 to 7.2 percent
in 1991.
3.9         Real Economy - Medium Term.  Czechoslovakia's transformation to a
market economy will continue through the mid-1990s. The most fundamental change
will, of course, be the shift from state to privately organized activities.
This has been reflected in the projected drastic decline of government expendi-
tures from about 60 percent of GDP on average during 1988-90 to some 40 percent
in the mid-1990s.  Investments will increasingly be carried out by private
entrepreneurs so that government investment would decline from close to 5 percent
of GDP in recent years to 3.5 percent by 1993 and stabilize at that level, while
private investment (including enterprises and households) would, following a
sharp contraction in 1991, recover to 20 percent of GDP by the mid-1990s.
Substantially higher domestic savings would be channeled to the most productive
investments with the help of a strengthened system of financial intermediation
resulting in a significantly improved overall economic efficiency.



- 33 -
is expected to start rising from 1993 onwards. Thereafter average GDP growth
rates have been projected to rise from 4.7 percent a year during 1993-95 to 5.6
percent during 1996-2000. The expected initial slow recovery of output 18 due
to several factors. Privatization of large enterprises is expected to begin on
a broad scale at the beginning of 1992 and is likely to take several years. This
will slow down investment. Similarly, the impact of the financial sector reform
on enterprise investment and, to a lesser degree, on consumer spending is not
likely to be felt before mid or late 1992.  Private enterprise investment,
including direct foreign investment, has been projected to increase over the next
ten years, but it is expected to surpass that of state-owned enterprises only
from 1993 onward. Exports can be expected to grow at rates well above those of
total output during the early and mid-1990s, but imports are also expected to
rise quickly. Consequently, Czechoslovakia's current account defIcits, though
expected to decline steadily, will require exceptionally large foreign financing
in the first half of the 1990s.
3.10        The combination of privatization, industrial restructuring, compara-
tively low wage levels, a competitive exchange rate and restrictive monetary and
fiscal policies, which the Government intends to continue during the early 1990s
augur well for a significant improvement of economic performance and a return
to more balanced external accounts during the second half of the 1990s. Trade
and price liberalization can be expected to induce viable enterprises to make
the necessary industrial investments and organizational adjustments.   Firm-
level data indicate that enterprises producing machinery, cement and construction
materials and consumer items (glass, ceramics, etc.) should have a comparative
advantage on western European markets, provided they are not facing trade
restrictions. In many instances, comparatively large productivity increases can
be achieved with modest capital investments especially when they are combined
with improved management techniques. Enhanced resource allocation, & -ng with
large investments in a few key industries are likely to lead to significant
improvements in productivity and enterprise profits in the mid-and late 1990s.
This will enable enterprises to finance additional investments out of profits,
and by the mid-1990s, wages should catch up with productivity increases. At that
time the banking system will have been strengthened so that it can play its
appropriate role as financial intermediary.  In the long term the household
savings rate is projected to stabilize at almost 7 percent of GDP, as privatiza-
tion, positive deposit interest rates and attractive capital market instruments
provide incentives to raise private savings and channel them to productive
purposes.



. 34 -
Iotaj2: Nedlium-erm Balanes of raymenta and Flnanoing Plan
(US. millions)
lS90       t1oo        1992        1993        1994        199S         2000
Exports of GNFS                        14433      14481       15197       15938       17246       10085        31351
Imports of 058                         15691      16124       16464       16940       18123       19805         13310
Resource Balance                       -1258       -1643      -1266       -1001        -877        -800           41
Current Account Deficit                i133         i0         1aM 
Principal Repayments                     964       1075         982         930        1348        2278         2S62
Multilateral                            6          a          41          37         349         619          333
of which:
iMF                                 0           0           a           0         317         587            0
IXBD                                0           0           0           0           0           0          188
Bilateral                             30          31          16           3         1SS         275            0
of which:
DM - Japan                          0           0           0           0           0          s0            0
G-24 (non-EEC) 1/                   0           0           0           0          36          75            0
E6C                                 0           0           0           0         12S         150            0
Private Comercial 2/                 949         912         779         744         686        1238         1890
Other  3/                               0        124         146         146         146         146          139
Total Finaucina Neede                   am         3087        2400        2           am          3m           ama
Gross Disburseasnts;  4.                1917        3576       2062        1758        1943        2796         2370
of which:
multilateral                            1       1485         580         685         765         853          372
of which:
SW"                                 0        1285         140           0           0           0            0
IBID                                0         200         340         400         390        360           120
Bilateral                               9        750         350           0           0           0            0
of which:
MM  - Japan                         0         100         100           0           0           0            0
9-24 (non-EE)  1/                   0         150         150           0           0           0            0
NE                                  0         500         100           0           0           0            0
Private Commercial 2/               1856        1339        1132        1063        1178        1946         1696
Direct Foreign Investment  5/             80         500        600         700         600        1000         1200
Change in Reserves (4-deorease)         1103      -1100        -410        -440        -520        -500         -750
Net IL? Capital. n.e.i.  6/             -654         213         93          60          47         -57           32
lot Short-tarm Capital                  -122       -102          55          84         166         208           79
Total Financina Sources                2W             a                    aa 2        2
V/ Excludes Japanese EXIM cofinancing.
2/ lncluWdes bonds, finuanial institutions, suppliers credits, and expaort credits.
3/ Includes nonconvertible debt.  Historical figures include net changes in stock of nonconvertible debt.
(Decreases are shown as principal repayments.) All nonconvertible debt as of end 1690 are asamed
to be mortized in 1991-2000.
4/ Includes nonconvertible debt. Historical figures include net changes In stock of nonconvertiblo debt.
(Increases are shown as groas disbursements.)
5/ Includes equity component onlr.
6/ Erors 6 omissions, valuation changes, and net credit extended by Cschsealovakia.
3.11              External Financing and Creditworthiness. To support the implementa-
tion of its transformation program, Czechoslovakia needs total external financing
of US$4.3 billion in 1991. (Table 2). In addition to financing the current
account deficit and repayment obligations, this financing permits a build-up of
foreign exchange reserves by US$1.1 billion. At the end of 1991, gross reserves
have been projected to amount to US$2.3 billion, or 1.6 months of projected 1991
imports. Although the current account has been projected to improve significant-
ly over the next few years, oxternal financing needs have been projected to
decline more slowly and would average about US$3 billion during 1992-95. This



- 35 -
is due to the rather short repayment terms of balance of payments support which
is expected to come from multilateral agencies and other officlal creditors in
the early 1990s. Czechoslovakia's decision to move quickly to a full-fledged
market economy is expected to lead to a rapid build-up of debt in the early
1990s, since comparatively low national savings rates need to be complemented
by foreign savings to fund the large investment needs. Total debt would rise
by 26 percent in 1991, by 65 percent by 1995, and stabilize at around US$16
billion, or around 25 percent of projected GDP, thereafter.
3.12        The projected finaing pljan (Table 2) shows an important shift in
the composition of creditors toward commercial financing sources, which is in
line with the projected current account improvement. By 1995, official creditors
(including the Bank, IMF, EXIM Bank of Japan, the EC and G-24 countries) would
account for 31 percent of gross disbursements, compared to 63 percent in 1991.
Conversely, private commercial disbursements have been projected to increase from
an average 46 percent of projected gross disbursements during 1991-92 to 65
percent on average during 1994-95. The program assumes significant increases
in direct foreign investment in the early 1990s: it would rise from a low level
of about US$80 million in 1990 to US$500 millioniW in 1991 and reach an accumula-
ted amount of US$3.2 billion during 1992-1995. This is a realistic assumption
given the Government's privatization program, its policies to attract direct
foreign investment and to foster the creation of joint ventures. Although there
are expectations that financing from official sources like the IHF and the
Japanese EXIM Bank will be available beyond 1992, it is not reflected in Table
2. To the extent this and the projected financing from private sources would
materialize, Bank lending might be reduced accordingly.
3.13        The financing plan in support of Czechoslovakia's transformation
program includes a 14-month stand-by arrangement in the amount of SDR 620 million
to be disbursed in five tranches during 1991 and 1992, starting in January 1991,
plus access under the compensatory and contingency financing facility (CCFF) of
up to SDR 484 million to be disbutrsed in two tranches in 1991. Purchases from
the Fund would amount to US$1.3 billion in 1991, and the Fund's exposure is
expected to amount to 11 percent of total debt in 1991.
3.14        Projected commitments from the World Bank could total US$1.5 billion
over FY 1991-93, and about US$2.3 billion during F! 1991-95, or about US$500
million a year. In 1991, projected disbursements from the Bank would amount to
US$200 million under the first tranche of the proposed SAL. In 1992, total Bank
disbursements have been projected to increase to US$340 million, consisting of
US$250 million under the second and third tranches of the SAL, and the rest from
the proposed Energy loan and the Financial Sector loan. Between 1993 and 1995,
Bank disbursements have been projected to reach about US$400 million a year.
The projected Bank's share in total debt increases from 2 percent in 1991 to 11
5/   Equity investment in joint ventures projected at US$500 million for 1991
includes about US$350 million of the Volkswagen-Skoda agreement. The
rest would come from joint ventures that are being planned with a
Belgian glass company, the Italian Lombardini concern (for manufacturing
diesel engines), and a German construction machinery company, among
others.



- 36 -
percent in 1995 (Table 3).   Debt service to the Bank as a percentage of
Czechoslovakia's total debt service rises from about 3 percent in the mid-1990s
to 11 percent in 2000. The Bank's share of total debt to preferred creditors
rises from 12 percent in 1991 to 48 percent in 1995, and to 50 percent in 2000.
3.15        Disbursements from the expected Japanese EXDM Bank cofinancing of
the SAL would amount to US$200 million during 1991-92, expected to be split about
evenly between 1991 and 1992.   The financing plan also assumes balance of
payments support from the European Community in the amount of US$500 million in
1991, and a projected US$100 million in 1992. The G-24 countries, excluding the
European Community, are expected to provide US$250 million balance of payments
support annually in 1991 and 1992 (US$100 of which is SAL cofinancing from the
EXIM Bank of Japan). Disbursements from the EIB/EBRD have been projected to
amount to about US$200 million a year during 1992-95, and about US$300 million
thereafter.
3.16        Borrowing from private sources, mainly commercial banks, is expected
to play an increasingly important part in Czechoslovakia's transformation to a
market economy. Private enterprises, utilities, commercial banks and insurance
companies will become regular clients of foreign banks because the former will
carry out most, if not all, economically viable investment projects, and because
the latter will have developed a fuXl and sophisticated understanding of the
country's restructuring industry.  The anticipated establishment of foreign
commercial banks and joint business ventures will reinforce the dynamic role
commercial lenders can be expected to play in Czechoslovakia's emerging market
economy. After an initial hesitant start, borrowing from private commercial
sources would increase from about US$1.2 billion a year during 1991-94 to US$1.9
billion in 1995, and average about US$2.0 billion a year during the second half
of the 1990s. About 40 percent of these amounts would be raised in 1991-92 by
issuing bonds and notes on capital markets and the remainder would consist of
trade and bank credits.



- 37 -
Table-3: Selected Debt Zudlestors
190o    9l91    1992    1993    1994    1995      2000
XBtal debt (millions of US$)    VA    14        12831   I=      1L4     DM        mm
Hedimr- and long-ter debt 1/    6212    8712    9793   10821   11816   11737       12904
Couvertlble eurrency          4879    7504    8730    9704   1045   11111       12904
Nmenyertible currency 1/      1333    1209    1063     917      771     625        0
Sbort-term debt 2/              2895    2783    2938    2922    3090    3298       4005
(ln percent)
Total debt/GDP                  20.5    27.0    30.8    32.2    31.8    30.5       21.8
Total debt/Exports of goods     60.9    76.1    79.5    81.3    79.5    75.7       52.2
and services
Total debt servie/GDP            4.0     4.9      4.9     4.8     5.5     7.0       4.6
Total debt service/Exporto of    11.9    13.8    12.5    12.0    13.8    17.4      11.1
goods and services
Tnterest payments/Exports of goods  5.3  6.7      6.4     6.5     6.3     5.9       3.8
and services
TBRD debt serviae/Exports of     0.0     0.0     0.1      0.3     0.4     0.5       1.2
goods and services
TIBD debt service/Total debt     0.0     0.0     0.8      2.1     2.9     3.0      10.5
service
TIRD debt/Total debt             0.0     1.7     4.J      6.9     9.2    11.3      14.1
Preferred debt/Total debt 3/     2.9    15.2    18.1    21.5    23.3    23.7       28.4
MIED debt/Preferred debt  3/     0.0    11.5    23.7    32.3    39.7    47.8       49.8
I/ includes all nonconvertible currency debt.
2/ Convertible currency debt.
3/ Preferred creditors include EMD EB, TBRD, and VW.
3.17         External Debt Management.  The Government recognizes the importance
of reliable and timely external debt information in assessing the country's
foreign debt, creditworthiness, and economic management. It has taken steps to
strengthen the institutional framework for debt management through (a) clear
delineation of the respansibilities between the State Bank, the Ministry of
Finance and other agencies and (b) effective inter-agency coordination aided by
a central debt unit. Furthermore, debt reporting, registration, and monitoring
procedures are being clearly defined. Following a recent World Bank external
debt mission, the State Bank provided the Bank in March 1991 with the standard
detailed debt reports for 1990, and informed the Bank about public medium and
long-term loans signed in the first quarter of 1991.
PART rv - THE PROPOSED LOAN
4.1          Rationale for the Loan.  The proposed SAL is the most appropriate
lending instrument for supporting the Government's far-reaching transformation
program. The program addresses a wide range of economic, institutional and
administrative obstacles on the way to a market economy. Contraction of output
in obsolete sub-sectors accompanied by a much smaller growth of activities in
viable or newly emerging sub-sectors will result in large balance of payments
deficits and a quick and large rise in unemployment. By providing substantial



- 38 -
financial assistance during this Initial phase of massive adjustment and re-
allocation of resources, the SAL would help manage the transition in an orches-
trated fashion and thereby reduce significantly the risk of unacceptedly high
economic and social costs which would otherwise be associated with the first
phase of the economic transformation. The loan would provide support to the
Government's efforts when it is most needed and when it will have the biggest
impact on moving the economy to a market economy. With the SAL the Bank would
join other multilateral and bilateral creditors to provide urgently needed
balance of payments support during the initial and most critical phase of the
transformation. The loan will provide an umbrella for Bank support for subse-
quent sector reforms, as well as project loans (para. 5.3). The SAL is a direct
operational follow-up to the policy recommendations in the Bank's first Country
Economic Memorandum.
4.2         Loan Design and Components.   Actions to be supported under the
proposed loan would cover an 18 month period from mid-1991 to the end of 1992
when new prices and incentives will increasingly guide consumers, investors and
public officials into economic decisions reflecting both domestic and interna-
tional scarcities of resources. Since the replacement of central planning with
an economy based on market forces and private sector activities requires policy
changes on a broad front, the SAL would address key issues the resolution of
which is critical for a successful transformation. Within a sound medium-term
macroeconomic framework, the specific policy areas are: (a) price and trade
liberalization, including competition policies; (b) privatization and commer-
cialization of state-owned enterprises through enforcement of hard budget
constraints and market prices; (c) strengthening of financial sector; (d) energy
and environmental policies; and (e) labor market reform and provision of a social
safety net. Policy reforms in the areas (c) and (d) will be initiated under the
SAL and would then be continued and amplified under separate loans.
4.3         Progress in realizing results in the various policy areas of
Czechoslovakia's transformation will be uneven. In some areas, such as price
or trade liberalization, results can be expected at a faster pace than in others.
Privatization or labor market reform can by their very nature be expected to
require more time and efforts before they will have a lasting impact on output,
exports or resource allocation. The SAL has therefore been conceived as the
first in a series of operations in support of Czechoslovakia's transition to a
market economy. In the course of program implementation, the various policy
areas, where a re-enforcement of actions or re-orientations will become
necessary, will be identified so that the contents of sector and project loans
as well as follow-up structural adjustment loans can be designed.
4.4         The SAL would support both stabilization and structural policy
measures.   Both types of policies are also supported by the IMF stand-by
arrangement. (para. 3.13)   While the stand-by arrangement puts particular
emphasis on stabilization policiis (backed by the usual performance criteria),
it also supports structural reforms covering price and trade liberalization, and
some aspects of energy pricing.   The SAL would support the Government's
stabilization policies intan   with the IMF, but would emphasize the structural
and supply-oriented components of the transformation program.  It stresses a
quick withdrawal of the state from virtually all productive activities, helps
promote private sector development, and aims at integrating the economy into



- 39 -
world markets. To achieve this, the SAL supports policies ln small and large
privatization, deregulation and competition, and commercialization of state-
owned enterprises through enforcement of hard budget constraints and market
prices. It further supports the Government's program to protect the population
groups most adversely affected by the transformation process with an adequate
social safety net, and helps promote labor market reforms based on a produc-
tivity-based wage policy and incentives. In the areas of energy and environmen-
tal policy, the SAL supports, in addition to economic pricing, institutional and
regulatory reforms, and in the area of financial sector reform the loan helps
put in place legal and institutional reform measures, as well as preparation of
restructuring efforts in the banking sector. Technical assistance to the State
Bank provided by the IMF and to the banking sector provided by the Bank is
closely associated with the SAL.
4.5         Loan Amount and Borrower.  In view of the scope of the reforms and
the projected balance of payments needs during 1991-92, we propose a loan amount
of US$450 million. Cofinancing of US$200 million is expected from the MM( Bank
of Japan. Together with the funds provided by other creditors (Table 2, page
34), the size of the loan would be substantial enough to provide critical support
during the first phase of Czechoslovakia's transformation efforts. The loan
would be made to the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic.
4.6         Utilization.  The loan would be utilized to finance the foreign
exchange cost of general imports except those goods financed from other sources,
and excluding certain goods such as military and para-military items, luxury
goods, nuclear reactors and parts, and uranium.   The forei.xt exchange made
available through the loan would be used by enterprises fox t! ;orts.
4.7         Procurement.  Procurement under the SAL would !je carried out as
follows:
(a)   for contracts valued at US$5 million equivalent or more, simplified
ICB procedures will be followed;
(b)   goods valued below US$5 million equivalent per contract may be
procured by obtaining price quotations from suppliers from at least
two eligible countries;
(c)   commodities valued at less than US$5 million equivalent per contract
may be procured by obtaining price quotations from more than one
supplier.
4.8         As the Bank has approved standard bidding documents to be used in
Czechoslovakia, there would be no further reviews by Bank staff of particular
bidding documents, or procurement decisions, prior to contract awards to avoid
delaying transactions. All contracts to be awarded under ICB and their relevant
bidding documents would be sent to the Bank for ex-post review before the
submission of the first withdrawal request for expenditurep under such contracts.
4.9        Disbursements. The proceeds of the loan would be administered by the
State Bank of Czechoslovakia. Disbursements from the loan account would be made
against 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures for eligible imports.



- 40 -
Withdrawal applications for disbursements on contracts of goods procured under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be fully documented. In all other
cases, disbursements will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) from the State Bank detailing individual transactions in a given period,
and certification of payment and of eligibility of the transactions for loan
financing. Supporting documentation (contract or purchase order, commercial
invoice or bill of lading, evidence of payment, bidding documents) for
disbursements under SOEs would be retained by the State Bank until at least 12
months after the Bank receives the last audit report for the Loan. Withdrawal
applications would be consolidated and submitted in amounts of not less than US$1
million.  Contracts valued at less than US$50,000 would not be eligible for
financing. The loan closing date would be June 30, 1993. Retroactive financing
of US$90 million (20 percent of the total loan) for payments made after April
1, 1991 is proposed, because a number of important policy measures, such as
devaluation, price liberalization and convertibility for current account
purposes, have already been taken.
4.10       *c__u_nts -and Audits.  The State Bank will maintain records of all
transactions under the loar. in accordance with sound accounting practices. All
accounts would be audited within six months of the end of the fiscal year by
independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank. Audit reports would include
a separate opinion on claims submitted to the World Bank on the basis of SOEs
and would state whether the claims were made in accordance with the terms of the
Loan Agreement.
4.11       Monitoring and Imiple=entation.  The Federal Ministry of Finance and
the State Bank will be responsible for monitoring implementation of the transfor-
mation program. Several components of the transformation program, most notably
privatization of large state-owned enterprises and commercialization of their
activities, will be implemented at the level of the republics.   To secure
commitments by the respective authorities, the SAL documents have been approved
by the Federal and Republic governments.
4.12       The Bank will monitor the implementation of the transformation program
with the help of the policy matrix attached to the Memorandum of Development
Policy, through semi-annual reviews as well as in the context of preparation and
supervision of other projects. Not all of the measures listed in the detailed
policy matrix are formal tranche release conditions. The latter are compiled
as specific conditions for second and third tranche releases in Annex IV. In
addition, for monitoring progress under the transformation program, quantitative
indicators and their indicative minimum tarsets have been agreed with the
Government (Annex III). These indicators provide quantitative criteria for our
economic dialogue with the authorities and will be reviewed semi-annually to
assess economic performance.   Information on these indicators will be made
available to the Bank periodically, significant divergences would be identified,
and remedial policy actions undertaken.
4.13       Tranche Release Conditions.  The loan would be disbursed in three
tranches. The first tranche of US$200 million equivalent would be available on
effectiveness, expected in July 1991, while the second and third tranches of
US$125 million equivalent each would be released on fulfillment of sp6cific
tranche release conditions. Conditions for second and third tranche releases



- 41 -
are summarized in Annex IV. The proposed SAL is front loaded with many critical
actions already taken prior to Board presentation. The Government's resolve to
move the country quickly to a market economy led it to prepare and implement
important policy measures immediately after the elections in mid-1990, during
the preparation of the budget in late 1990, and in connection with the change
to convertible currency trade with former CMEA partners on January 1, 1991. The
sudden oil price increase in connection with the Gulf crisis added to the urgency
with which the Government undertook market reforms. Key policy measures already
introduced include: removal of subsidies on foodstuffs in July 1990; significant
currency devaluations in October and December 1990; abolition of foreign trade
monopolies and introduction of current account convertibility of the currency;
elimination of all quantitative import restrictions and unilateral reduction of
certain import tariffs; reduction of budgetary subsidies from 13 percent in 1990
to less than 7 percent budgeted in 1991; liberalization of almost all prices;
massive energy price increases; elimination of interest rate ceilings; adoption
of anti-trust legislation and establishment of a Federal Anti-Trust Office; start
of small privatization in January 1991; adoption of large privatization law, and
preparation of implementation procedures; restitution law in February 1991; and
provision of key elements of a social safety net, including unemployment
benefits.
4.14       Link Between the ProRosed SAL and Other Bank Operations. As the first
Bank operation in Czechoslovakia after the country's return to the IMF and the
Bank in September 1990, the SAL will help prepare an appropriate policy environ-
ment for two other Bank loans currontly under preparation: an Energy loan, and
a Financial Sector loan. Direct links exist between the SAL and these two loans:
under the SAL, pricing and regulatory issues in the energy sector are being
addressed; and legal and institutional steps for reforming the financial sector
are being taken. Monitoring and supervision of the SAL is also expected to
generate interest on the part of the Government in Bank assistance in other
reform areas: expansion and reorientation of the social sectors; industrial
restructuring, including export promotion; revision of tariff structure; and
environmental protection.
4.15       Risks.   The Government has shown that it is fullT committed to
transforming Czechoslovakia quickly into a market economy by implementing
critical reform policies over the past year. Policy measures have been well
prepared and, generally, implemented skillfully. The Federal and Republic
governments have made extensive use of technical advice from international orga-
nizations and bilateral and private sources. The population strongly supports
the Government's transformation program, although there are differences of
opinion regarding the speed of the move to a market economy. These differences
are, however, a healthy reflection of the country's democratization process
accompanied by the ongoing formation of political parties.
4.16       Carrying through such a fundamental and far-reaching transformation
program is, however, not without risk. The staff sees essentially three possible
events which could slow down or even jeopardize the country's successful transi-
tion to a market economy in the next two or three critical years:  Lat, the
full impact of the transformation program on prices and employment will only be
felt in the coming months and years. Although the population has been prepared
for the initial hardships associated with the move to a market economy, it is



- 42 -
not certain that resistance or even social unrest could be avolded should infla-
tionary pressures or unemployment levels become very high. The social safety
net put in place by the authorities, the population's quite rational spendLng
behavior during the period of strong price adjustments in early 1991, and the
agreements reached between the trade unions, the employers' associatlon and the
Government augur, however, well for preserving social peace.  Seehi. although
Czechoslovakia has secured sufficient funding for implementing the first step
of the transformation program in 1991, it is not certain that adequate funding,
especially from private commercial sources, can be secured over the next few
years. We expect US$200 million SAL co-financing from the EXIM Bank of Japan,
and a grant of US$15 million in parallel financing from US Aid. The Bank will
continue its efforts to hel; mobilize external financing from bilateral and
multilateral sources, including guarantee operations, as the transformation
program will show its first results and the financing needs can be quantified
more accurately. There is, however, a risk that commercial banks and private
foreign investors put Czechoslovakia in the same credit risk category as some
other Central and East European countries facing considerably more severe econo-
mic or financial difficulties. The expected expeditious privatization of econo-
mic activities, the catalytic role IFC can be expected to play in promoting
direct foreign investment (paras. 5.6 to 5.8) and the Government's policy
easures in support of private sec ior activities are likely to bring about an
atmosphere conducive to enhanced -rivate commercial lending.
4.17       If Czechoslovakia does not receive the large external financing needed
to support its transformation program (Table 2, para. 3.11), the process of
adjusting to the terms of trade deterioration, loss of export markets, and a new
incentive structure would have to take place in an environment with a considerab-
ly greater degree of uncertainty. The Government would have to slow down its
transformation course, and could be tempted to intervene into economic activities
much more than it wishes in order to prevent unacceptably high unemployment
levels. The critical modernization of the industrial capital stock would be
delayed, and the population would have to postpone further its hope for signifi-
cant increases in standards of living. Without the prospect of a fundamental
and lasting transformation of the economy, the Bank assistance program would have
to be reduced to much more modest levels.
4.18       hlrd, the distribution of relative responsibilities between the
Federal and Republic authorities currently being worked out in the context of
preparation of a new constitution on the one hand, and the evolving relationship
between the Czech and Slovak Republics on the other, may somewhat slow down the
process of taking and implementing difficult reform policy decisions.
Czechoslovakia is only at the beginning of practicing again democracy, and
consensus building can be expected to be more time consuming and difficult due
to the administrative delays associated with establishing and learning the rules
of a workable cooperation process between the Federal and Republic governments.
8xperience so far shows, however, that they do not present a serious obstacle
to a successful implementation of the transformation program.



- 43 -
P@R V - BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND OTER BANK GOMP OPERIONI
A. Bank Assistance Strategy
5.1        Czechoslovakia can be expected to make fairly rapid progress in
transforming its economy and achieve significantly higher standards of living
in the medium term. A skilled labor force, the country's strategic location for
integrating the economy into the European and world economy, and last but not
least, the heritage of an 'industrial culture" put the country in a comparatively
good starting position to achieve its goal. Nevertheless, the Government and
the population are aware of the magnitude of the task and have no illusions that
a successful transformation will involve large adjustment costs and painful
learning processes. The unfavorable external events described above render the
tasks of the policy makers even more difficult. Even if Czechoslovakia succeeds
in graduating in Bank terms by the end of the 1990s, the road towards this goal
will be difficult and fraught with temporary setbacks.
5.2        Balance-of-payments support from the Bank will, together with funds
from other creditors, help overcome the country's foreign exchange shortage
during the initial phase of the transformation when imports will outpace exports,
and the terms of trade undergo a drastic deterioration. Although Czechoslovakia
has sufficient room to borrow abroad because of its moderate external indebted-
ness, funding from private commercial sources is not likely to be available to
Czechoslovakia in large enough amounts before at least the first results of a
functioning market economy will have become visible.  The Bankk's financial
support plays therefore a catalytic role and is critical for bridging the
financing gap until such time when it will be increasingly replaced by financing
from commercial sources. This Is expected to take place during the second half
of the 1990s.
5.3        Following Czechoslovakia's re-entry into the Bank, the authorities
requested technical advice on virtually all aspects of transforming a centrally
planned into a market economy. The Bank has responded with the preparation of
an issues-oriented Country Economic MemorandumlJ which contributed to the discus-
sion and preparation of the Government's transformation program. The Bank's
primary assistance objective is to support the country's transformation to a
market economy and to strengthen its market orientation in order to promote
competitiveness, restore economic growth, and facilitate access to private capi-
tal markets. This objective is to be achieved through advice on macroeconomic
and sector policy as well as institutional issues, to help create a system of
incentives conducive to efficient mobilization and allocation of resources, and
by providing financial support to the Government's reform policies. Bank funds
would be provided through a mix of investment and quick-disbursing loans, inclu-
ding co-financing arrangements. Over the next two years, the Bank's proposed
lending program concentrates on the most critical transformation issues. In FY91
and FY92, the proposed SAL supports key components of the Government's
transformation program. In M2, the Bank will support the Government's reform
2,/ Distributed to the Board in January 1991.



- 44-*
program in the financial sector, in the energy sector and in the most pressing
environmental problem areas. Bank projects in support of tolecommunications,
industrial export promotion, and private sector development have been identified
for FY93.
5.4        At this stage, we anticipate to lend to Czechoslovakia for the rest
of this decade. We Pxpect to phase out quick-disbursing lending by the mid-
1990s, as conditions for private capital flows improve. Project lending is,
however, expected to continue in the second half of the 1990s in line with the
technical and operational assistan4e the Bank can offer.
B. MobiliZatign of Other Resources
5.5        Given the size of the need for foreign financial assistance in the
short and medium term, we propose to assist Czechoslovkia to obtain the required
funds through cofinancing with both official and private creditors. We would
expect that during 1991-93 we could assist in mobilizing about US$400 million
from official sources (e.g., EXIM Bank of Japan, EIB) in cofinancing with our
lending activities. In addition, we propose that the Bank provide some US$300
million over the same period to mobilize private financing of about US$1.2
billion through well targeted cofinancing and possible guarantee operations.
As private external financing is a crucial element to sustain the reform program,
careful and highly selective use could be made of the Bank's guarantee facility
under the ECO program as well as more traditional forms of cofinancing with the
private sector. This should be seen to be a discrete, and well targeted effort
to facilitate Czechoslovakia's access to improved terms of borrowing.
C.  Promotion of Private Sector Activities
5.6        The expansion of the private activities through privatization and new
domestic and foreign private ventures is the cornerstone of the Government's
transformation program. As discussed above, our direct lending operations are
geared to support the Government's program in this important area.   The
lnternational Finance Corporation (IFC) and MIGA (Multilateral Investment
Guarantee Agency) will play a major role in promoting private sector activities
and foreign investment. IFC will not only complement the Bank's support to the
development of Czechoslovakia's private sector, but provide highly specialized
and diversified technical assistance and equity financing.
5.7        Resource mobilization through private sector investment, without
government guarantee, is a key objective for IFC in Czechoslovakia. IFC expects
to play a prominent role in this area through specific project investments (such
as Skoda/VW, Air-products, Cabot) and through participation in investment funds
and intermediary institutions. For the Skoda/VW project alone, IFC has been
asked to provide or arrange financing of DM1 billion to support an investment
program over the next five ycars that aims at mobilizing additional foreign
capital in the order of DM3 to DM4 billion. Other projects in the areas of
cement, carbon black, industrial gasses, and tourism inf.castructure are currently
under discussion.   IFC is currently assisting a manufActuring enterprise to
identify a joint venture partner; undertaking a privatization program with
foreign participants for a hotel; reviewing a restructuring program of a textile
machinery enterprise; and overseeing the privatization of a bank. Thus, IFC's



- 45 -
investments (including syndications/participations) could total Us$500 millian
over the next 2 years and total foreign investment In IFC supported projects
could exceed US$1 billion. However, these numbers depend heavily on successful
Implementation of one or more large deals, without which IPC investments could
be as low as US$100 million a year. IPC expects to complete Its first investment
operation in Czechoslovskia in FY92.
5.8        On the capital market side, IFC is providing technical assistance to
the committee in charge of preparing the establishment of a stock exchange; the
State Bank and the Ministry of Finance for preparing a comprehensive securities
law and regulatory environment for a venture capital industry.  Preliminary
discussions are underway on the creation of a leasing company, an Insurance
company, and a venture capital fund. At the request of the Minister of Finance,
IFC has prepared an outline for the privatization voucher scheme. In addition,
the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) has completed a comprehensive
review of direct foreign investment regulations and provided advice on the
legislative, procedural and taxation aspects for attracting direct foreign
investment. It has also proposed an organizational structure for the Federal
and Republic agencies for foreign investment.   In order to intensify and
facilitate Its support to Czechoslovakia's private financial and commercial
activities, IFC has established a representative office ln Prague.
D. Collaboration with Other Agencies
5.9        Coordination with the   . Bank staff has been working closely with
the I1F from the beginning of Czechoslovakia's renewed amebership in the two
institutions.  Bank staff participated in IMF missions and Fund staff par-
ticipated in the SAL pre-appraisal mission. Monitoring of the imple_entation
of the transformation, especially the macro-economic policy framework, will be
closely coordinated with the IMF. Likewise, we intend to maintain close contacts
and coordinate policies and operational activities with bilateral donors and
multilateral agencies like EBRD, EIB, UNDP, the EC-PHARE program, as well as the
regional cooperation initiatives such as tho Pentagonale group.
PAR  VI - RECgMi4ENDAIOM
6.1         I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments                                      by
June 7, 1991                            Wilfried P. Thalwitz
Washington, D.C.



SodaIJad keMAsn dD.ovdupmi  19W- 46 -
2 S4  a70If 20 U_
* agampowarm   t.9 U                                  N
Z5..M    13.21    meat  Mad~eUS   hm3us
11UMAN~~~~~~~~pw1
S d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  8?0  19722 1t.8 3E6m.27
Todbdxwfom                                 _1~~e  q  LS  whA~             m
R                                           r                       57.0    1
Ud_^ld                _           "~~~~~~~2.  2.0  11      t   3. t 2.      .
E000                     _   196                                      15 51 038
F ^zz,' 4                                                4.29  31  t78
b~~~~m
i_1W            1        a       a20   1a         -   33
a  e ,     a2            3a i
psrpm.         10.0    115    114 1*            8.0     8.
rm                               3              45.2     8.9
>                     1|a~~~~~~mms  1fz     7f1     8       19722   i58   38.47
qtp*                   IO"              79412
Popubdmipow                                   Pthomy~~~6.6 26.  sco3l    37.M
FmIup-L Oain
t.i                                          -                 o                



- 47-
- 47 -             ~~SO"i Indlmtuu of D.vdqme.t imS
dd
Uuhf       "    w        *        e   Smrqee/I:uv.
DICOM AND FOVUT!
Gmp.c. awpa  a                                                                  200      $3.10    i3.0
J"SJ                          *qt.               -        --     -                              _
q~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                   
~~~~~~~~~-                                   a                  -                  a  
Stobmt     bno1saa                                                                         
Absodspavatyqomine m              USSpsj.F-                                                   
pce kabobn pw .-                                        a        a
ENMDnVE
Feed                                %EODPt  -                   a                           a _
-    10
j~~duaiamp.roa~~~      197941.100       733       963               i03      160.      ioL
rsaDp                      -        .       1         11        2.7
.J e$>sdapup      3J      3.'41      .                 2$91     3.38
=~~~~~~~~~~~~P '=                        _0                                                 2 
Asbimu                                               a         a        av         -       a         au
dUnu          d3g                   SetGDP M                    a _                -
kg of   iml    SP"        434    4=:7,  14a.           137.7  *4.M.
Ud                     ~ ~ ~          ~~*otmdai  -    a         -        _        *         _
"d~~~~~~~~~~~ a _    -eD _                                                    a         a 
Traomanpredoommuai.dso               3ao
Towlmul k       w                    pe              374       10 2i     6
?cPbd@spertdeplwii                   p.ums                      6        4        13        8        2
nvznmmNTR6uHANcAmrAL
P.p1adoopep.t0iya                                             t67      1 4
Iboqb                                                -       so 8     343__
AawtobW_ (m                         %    _ *                   _I_
bmddwE2_ms   P                    %dowpo                 _                            _2. 
G ds~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s.
0O1 Rdo*dtedhlhUuymOld.rS)                            a         a        a      32.0        a 
0~~~~~~~~0.
PV34omhw=dm  pwbpwoncbw                                     ~~~~~29231
NewONyywdmadr                    pwdrn.p         280.      209.7    315.7      36I      63.0
Ur       ,                         %       St               t                           M



I!
0



- 48 -
tabte 1: Key nacwrowonatc Indicators                             pAex I
pane I of T
...Ac dtu l.................. ...................Projected ..................
1985  1986  1986  19M8  1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995    2000
Gross 03stIc Product (GP)   677.0 694.7 711.1 740.0 n59.5  79B.1 1194.3 1243.3 1367.6 1504.4 16S4.9  2640.9
(in billions of current koruny)
CDP Oeflator (1990a100)       87.3  88.0  89.4  90.6  91.8  10O.O  166.2  182.2  194.1  202.9  211.4   257.0
Gross Omotic Product (GOP)   711.2 789.3 795.7 816.5 82?.0  M98.1  718.6  682.3  704.?  741.5  782.9  1027.4
(In billtons of 1990 koruny)
Gross DOmstic Product COP)    39.4  46.3  52.0  51.5  50.5   44.5   42.7   40.9   42.1   45.0   49.3          7.7
(in biltfons of current USS)
(In peeno>t)
Gross Domestic Product (09)    2.2   1.8   0.8   2.6   1.3    3.5  -10.0   -5.0    3.3    5.2    5.6          S.6
Gross Domestic Incame (GOY)    2.8   1.8   2.0   3.9   2.7   -2.8  -13.8   -S.4    3.2    5.2    5.5          5.S
MP per Capita                  1.9   1.6   0.6   2.4   1.1   -3.7  -10.1   -5.2    3.1    S.0    5.4          5.4
Total Ccnsuaptian per Capita   5.6   3.3   4.6   6.0   0.5   -1.5  -14.1   -4.7    0.4    2.5    3.0          5.0
arss tnvestmant/DP            28.8  30.2  29.3  28.1  27.7   30.0   19.8   19.9   21.1   22.2   23.4    23.5
Domestic SevingsloP           31.0  30.8  30.1  30.4  29.5   27.2   15.9   16.8   18.7   20.3   21.7    23.6
National SavIngs/GDP          30.6  30.6  30.0  30.2  29.5   27.0   15.0   16.5   18.2   19.6   21.0    22.8
"arginal DOmstic Savinfs Rote   4.8  24.0   1.8  37.6  -6.0  -17.7    6.9   39.9   37.3   36.2   36.1    26.5
Marginal NatIonal Savings Rate   7.8  30.0   6.4  3S.8   3.8  -22.2   -9.1   51.6   34.9   34.0   34.S    25.8
Govonrent InvestmntWOP         4.6   4.6   4.7   4.7   4.8    4.S    3.6    3.6    3.5    3.5    3.5          3.4
Govertnmnt SvinRs/GDP          6.1   5.8   6.1   6.1   5.3    7.S    s.7    4.1    3.8    3.8    3.6          3.4
N-Government investment/GP    24.2  25.6  24.6  23.4  22.9   2S.6   16.1   16.4   17.6   18.8   19.9    20.1
e-Govrmnwt Savings/OP         24.5  24.8  23.9  24.1  24.2   19.5    9.3   12.4   14.3   1S.8   17.4    19.4
Govormmt Reversas/oP          S6.6  S6.1  5r.6  58.0  60.5   59.3   4.S   44.1   43.0   41.7   40.7    40.4
Goenmont expelditur./6oP      57.2  s5.0  58.2  60.5  61.4   58.9   45.S   43.6   42.?   41.4   40.6    40.4
Govenuent Budget Balace/P    -0.6  -0.9  -0.6  -2.S  -0.9    0.4    1.0    0.5    0.3    0.3    0.1           0.0
Exports (GOPS) Voltue          0.6   1.0   0.9   2.3  -4.4   -2.4  -25.1    3.8    5.3    6.5    6.5          6.5
6rouh nate
Exports CGQmS)/OlP            35.3  34.9  34.7  34.8  33.8   32.5   34.0   3r.1   37.8   38.3   38.6    40.3
laprts (GJFS) Volume           5.0   S.6   4.0   1.8   1.0   14.6  -35.4    1.0    3.3    5.3    5.6          5.6
Growth Rate
qinrto (GNFS)/OP              33.1  34.2  33.8  32.4  32.0   35.3   37.8   40.2   40.2   40.2   40.3    40.3
Current Actsaunt Balance     689.0 168.8 371.1 1093.0 999.6 -1339.3 -2011.6 1417.9 -1231.5 .1189.5 -1171.6  -569.6
(In illiton  of  ult USS)
Current Account Balance/GDP    1.7   0.4   0.7   2.1   1.9   -3.0   -4.7   -3.%   -2.9   -2.6   -2.4    -0.7
(in percent)



- 49 -
Table 2:  latence of Payents   1/                                       Ane  I
(in mittions of current USs)                                      pigs 2 of 7
---'------'---Acituatl ..........-----Projectedd.................
1985                         989   1990   191   1992   193   1994   1995           2000
A. Exporto of G0FS               13909  16148  18039  17922  17072  14433  14481  15197   5938  12 n46  19065         31351
1. Merchandise (FOB)           11635  13495  15190  15030  14211  11738  10617  11141  11655  12644  13977         22965
2. Von-factor Services          2274   2654   2849   2892   2861   2695   3864   4055   425    4602   1088           6366
S. laporta of GNFS               13052  15857  17589  16717  16153  15691  16124  16464  16940  18123  19865          31310
1. *Nnechadise (FOB)           11358  13881  1S460  14      1406   13237  12417  12680  13046  13957  15298        24113
2. 1on-Factor Services          1694   1977   2128   2071   2087  2454  7l6   3785   3894   4166   4566              7197
C. Resource Balance                857    291    450   1206    920  -1258  -1643  -1268  -1001   -877   -800             41
0. Net Factor Incen               -172   -134   -148   -175    -88   -288   -386   -360   -440   -522   -581           -816
1. Factor Receipts               303    328    372    410    502    499    634    692    720    751    786           1018
2. Factor Payments               475    462    519    5J8    590    787   1019   1052   1160   1273   1368           1834
.  et GCurrent Trensfers            4     12    68       66    106    207     17    210    210    210    210           205
1. Official                      -30    -41    -27    -29    -22    -53      10     10      10     10     10           5
2. Private                        34     53     95     94    130    260       7    200    200    200   200            200
F. Current Accownt Balance         689    169    371   1093    940  -1339  -2012  -1418  -122  -1189  -1172            -570
0. Long Term Capital Infltows     -m     -383    392    -34   -397    752   1928   1633   1587   1859   2050           1240
1. Oirect tnvestment               0      0      0      0     32      80    S00    600    700    900   1000          1200
2. Net LT Borrowdng CDRS)       -346   -122    552    614    45T    933   1216   941    828    912   1107              9
a. Disbursements                469    787   1549   1716   1617   1917   2291   1922   1758   1943   2799          2370
b. Repayments                   815    909    997   1101   1160    984   1075    982    930   1031   1691           2362
3. Net LT Credfts Extended      -428   -261   -160   -649   -886   -261    213      93      60     47    -sT           32
H. Totat Other [tais (not)         -27    473   -S04   -852      26   -515   -102     SS      84    168    N38           79
1. Net Short-Term Capitat       -157    463   -323   -612    222   -122   -102      55      84    168    208           79
2. Capital Floas n.e.1.          -95   -123   -269   -422   -117    -76       0      0       0      0      0            0
3. Errors nd oimssions           225    133     89    182    -79   -317       0      0       0      0      0            0
1. Change in Set Reserves          112   -259   -260   -207   -569   1103    186   -270   -440   -837  -1087           -750
(+-decrease)
1. net Credit from  the INF        0      0      0      0       0      0   1285    140      0   -317   -587            0
2. Other Reserve Changes         112   -259   -260   -207   -569   1103  -1100   -410   -440   -520   -500           -750
1/ Nistorfeat balance of payments f Sures were derived from consolideting BOP accatmts in convertible currencies,
nonwanvertfble currencies, and transfereble rubles. Transferable ruble figures we converted Into USS. equivalents
using the cross rates of exchange of korunry per transforable ruble and koruny per US dollbr.



- 50 -
table 2 (Continued): Balenco of Payment                                   ArAn   I
(in mittions ot current US5)                                    pegS 3 of f
...........-.--.Actual. ..............Projected.................
1965   1966   1987  t9B8  1989  1990  1991   1992  1993   1994   1995             2000
J. As Shares of (MP (cucrwnt US$):
1. Resource Balence             2.2    0.6   0.9    2.3    1.8   -2.8   -3.9  -3.1   -2.4   -1.9   -1.6           0.1
2. Current Accuwrt balance      1.7   0.4    0.7   2.1    1.9  -3.0  -4.t  -3S.5   -2.9   -2.6  -2.4             *0.T
K. Froregn Exchange Reserves:
1. Inmertmtierml Reserves      8S4   1115   1382   1583  2157   1102   2202  2612  3052  3s72  42                7672
(excluding gold) t/
2. aotd (ndyaer)   21/          161    159    152    158   153    10S    O5   105    105    105    105            105
3. Gross Reserves Ofncluding   1015   1275   1534  1741   2310   1207  2307  2V7  3157  3677  4177               T7
geld)   11
4. Gros Reserves (In mnths    2.7    2.8   2.9   3.1   4.1    1.6    1.8    1.9   2.1    2.3    2.4               2.9
of iwerts of goods and
services   1/ 3/
L. Exchane Rates
1. In NeMinal Totm             17.2  15.0  13.7  14.4  15.1  18.0    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..  ..
CKorwryMyB)
2. In Real Terms: Index       118.0  117.6  112.7  108.9  107.7  100.0    ..    ..    ..    ..
(1990.100)
1/ Interatiomal and  ros reerves fn cawertible currency only fon 1965-90.
2/ Gold holdins as reported by the State Bank of Cetchoslovakis.
31 leoprts of goods end serices fn cnvert1blo currency only for 1985-90.



- 51 -
tblte 3: Projected foreign Fwnnctng Rsirmuomts                                 Amex I
(in mil ion  of eurrent UIS)                                     p_g  4 of 
...............ActuAtl.P ........ ........rojected ..-.
1985   1966   1987  198     1989  1990  1991   1992   1993   1994   1995          2000
Gross Dburseewts:
total madium- and lto-trm debt  469    787 1549   1716   1617  1917  X56  2062    758   1943   2799                 2370
of chsih:
Multlateral                     21      0    170    e2       9      1  1485  5106             765    853         3m
of theh:
INU Purchos                    0      0      0      0      0      0 4J        140      0      0      0           0
ImO                            0      0      a      0      0      0   200   340  400         0380              120
Bilateral Creditors              17      3      3     U       0      9    52    350       0      0      0           0
Private                         431    784   133   1620   1608   156   139   1132   103   1178   1946             99
Suppliers and Oxport         309   425    811   1089   1000   882   939    32    613    653   1341             373
credits
Flownciat markets            122   359    562   531    608   974   400   600    480    525   605               625
Met Disbursements:
...................
Total sieuc- and ton-tem debt -346   -122   552    614    45?   933  2501   1080            28    595    521           9
of icbeh:
Nuttitaterst  1/                -54    -58    127    12      -3     -    147    539   628    416    234            39
of whichs
INV Not Credit                 0      0      0      0      0      0   1285    140      0   -317 -58              0
imU                            0      0      0      0      0      0   200   340   400          380   380        68
Biateral Creditors               17      3      3     13      0    -21     o      5      -3  -146   .m              0
Private                        -301    -56   419      20   460   90    427   353    349    490    08              109
Suptliers aNd expert         o6       5    239    229    21    114    72   -11        42    177   8             75
rIts
finanfal markets            -235   -61    181    291    440    79    355    363    307    313  -129             34
Not awort-tem capital             -157   463  -323   -12    222         2 2 -2    S5        84    168    208          79
1/ includes proJected pipeline reps_snt  to other multiltaterls such as Nordic Ivstmnt lank*  International lnk for
Ecomic Coopertion and International Investn   nk (1 MSO).



- 52 -
Table 4s Debt 0uteting e  Ofsbursed (DlD) en Seltcted Debt Indicator                     Ate S
pas S of r
1980   19C    1982   1903   1964   1985    1986   197   198    19g    1990
(in lttWons of current USt)
Total 00                          765  M71    60         590    5702   574   671S   768   7900   M69    90f6
Nwnsertfbte DOD                    916    7t5    691    6         964    966   1147   1000    52         776   1333
CatwtibLe 0                       6850   616   577    5160         3?   4408   5566   658   7375   7917   7764
NedfU  nd w ten  tem           261   3139   3094   27    28           26      27    352   396    4330   4879
npltlter                    354    286    249    109    178    111          54    262    m        268    267
sitlteral                      7      0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0      52
Bonds                          0       0      0       0       a       0       0      0      80    139    655
financial institutions      2042   1996   1889   1736   1601   143B   1337   1522   1649   1648    U26
Sutpt feraend export         459    857    9S6   1031   1096   1140   1486   1797   1969   Z275   2280
credits
Short-tem                      3989   31'78   2676   2183   1865   1919   2691   3076   3406   3587   2885
Seleeted Debt Indicators
--------?Projected -. --     .
M991   1992   1993   1996   1995              2000
Total DCD Omttlions of U8)                             11493  12631  13543  14306  15034              16909
Debt Service CdttLons of US)                             2088   1993   2007   2489   3450               3594
(in percent)
Total cm/ep                                              27.0   30.6   32.2   31.8   30.5               21.a
Total DOOD/Export of goods                               76.1   79.5   81.3   79.5   7S.7               52.2
and services
Total debt swrvicoj'SP                                    4.9    4.9    4.8    5.5    7.0                4.6
Total debt service/INports of                            13.8   12.5   12.0   13.8   17.4               11.1
goods and services
Interest pavjmnto/DP                                      2.4    2.5    2.6    2.5    2.4                1.6
tntnefst pOant4sE4xPsrts of goods                        6.7    6.4    6.5    6.3    5.9                3.8
ad servcs



- 53 -
Tabte 5s Oebt S*v ee Projections                                      AMex I
(In sttlion  of ewront U)                                       pep 6 of 7
*-.----.-.----  ACetual w...............  ...................Projected ...-...........
1905  1986  17   1966   1909   19     19          92  199S  1994  1995           2000
PriuwipeI 3sopSwitS:
....................
tot  indfwr wid tartem           815   909   997   1101   1160   9U4  1075   92   930  1348  2m                  Z162
of wlhihi
mA tttlnt                      is5  5so    44        0     12      6      8    41    3 73         619          333
of dhich
N       _prdma               0      0      0      0      0      0      0     0       03 nr56                  0
33                           0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0        186
SiltetwelCreditwr               0      0      0      0      0    30    n1       16      3    1"    275            0
Prvat                           2    640   954   1101   1148   949   912   M          74    4      13          1890
Suifwos and expor          375   42    572   861         0    M      86?   53   571    476   S04            129
FInomelt marlts            357   420   32   240    166   181    45   25?   173   212   74                   591
Intel t Panes:
Total                            475   462   519   58B   590   76   1013  1011   1077  1141   1173                1232
"dr wd to tem                    347   29    30    349   367    9          6       0    86 0    874   902          943
of ditch:
WAttiterat                      2      2     11      1      7    25    90   162   203    23   260               367
of uduidu
361                          0      0      0      0      0      0    63    n       11  In         64          0
im                           0      0      0      0      0      0      1    is    42        3   102         190
oftetooCt crdetors              4      1      1      2      0      5    48    76    110   110    94               0
private                       29    237   212   250   29    335   416   373    412   44    48                   576
Sswl oro ad uipot           123    13    140    162   170   194   216   143    144    19   177               S9
Finncfelat l?kt            171   101    71    88   120   141   20           20    366            309         179
amrt-ton                         124   167   217   239   223   196   35   303   29   266  2V0                     289
Iv Instudms projected pipelfne tr)mu    to other  tult latelts suh a  wdod  Invest            , tnteorrmtiamt hr fw
ICelMc Cooperatfon wd intrntiontl  mestment I"  (Nooe).



- 54 -
Tsble 6: Odbt Outtatiding nt Dishursed                                    AmM  I
(In mIlltons of currant US)                                      pop I of 7
.......* ActuA.t.................. .................Projected-.
1985   1966   1987   1988  1989  1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995          2000
Total iedha-r wn  long-tarm      3655   4024  4561   4493  5106  6212  6712  9793  10621  11216  11737            12904
of hAIch:
nulttlaterol                   111     54   262   272   268   26?   1744  2283   2911   3338  3561              4799
at IAfch:
INF                           0      0      0      0      0      01 26    1425   1425   1108   SR1              0
imt                           0      0      0      0      0      050        540    940   1321  1701         238
Bftateral CredItoers                    0      0      0      0    52    m      1107   1103   s36    663            0
Private                       2578  2W   3319  3697  4062  4560  4968  5341  5690   6180  6368                  8105
SplWirs and export         1140   1486   1797   196   22h   2280   235   2341   2383   2560  3397            5643
credits
FInancIal rkets            1436   1337   1522    28   11    281  263   29          3307   36M0   3491        2462
Short-ter  ceuwertlble           1919  2691  3076   3406  3587   2         2783   2838   222   3090  3298          4005



A=  1
OFU 0  Y         POLICY
AND ASSOCI&TD POLICY NATRICES



- 55-                      AnnexLI
Page 1 of 20
June 6, 1991
Mr. Barber Conable
President
The World blknk
Washington, D.C. 20613
USA
Dear Mr. President:
We request a Structural Adjustment Loan from the World Bank in the
amount of US$450 million equivalent in support of the Government's transfor-
mation program. The main elements of the program and specific policy measures
already taken or to be taken in the near future are explained in the attached
Memorandum of Development Policy.
In order to ensure effective program implementation, the SAL
documents have been approved by the Federal and the Czech and Slovak governments.
We intend to move quickly to a market economy in order to achieve a much more
efficient allocation of resources, significantly higher productivity levels in
all sectors of the economy, and a lasting restoration of economic growth. We
are confident that the radical policy changes we are Implementing will, after
a painful adjustment period, lead to substantially improved standards of living
for our people. At the same time, the Government is putting in place a system
of unemployment benefits and other social assistance to protect the most
vulnerable segments of the population against the hardships of adjustment.
The transition of our country to a mayltet economy has become much
more difficult because of external events beyond the Government's control. The
sudden loss of export markets due to the demise of the CMEA, the impl_mentation
of stabilization programs in Czechoslovakia's traditional trading partner
countries, and the fact that we must pay for imports in hard currencies and at
world market prices are shocking the economy while Czechoslovakia is already
undergoing massive re-allocation of resources and disruptions. Consequently,
substantial external financing will be required over the next few years.
The World Bank's financial support to our transformation program
would help bridge the financing requirement and play an important catalytic role
in stimulating private sector activities and commercial capital inflows.
Josef Tosovsky                                   Vaclav Klaus
President                                  Minister of Finance
State Bank of Czechoslovakia



- 56 -                   AD="; 11
Pa&- 2 of 20
MQEMOADM OF DEVELPMEN  POLCY
I. hd
1.           Following the political events in November 1989, the new Govern-
ment of Czechoslovakia decided to transform the economy radlcally and quickly
into a market economy.   The decision was overwhelmingly supported in free
elections in June 1990, and the transformation program was formally adopted in
September 1990. A new constitution that is expected to determine the relative
roles and political powers of federal, republic and municipal authorities, is
under preparation.
2.           Central planning over the past 40 years has resulted in a long-
term decline in productivity, international competitiveness, and degradation of
the environment. Standards of living have improved only slowly, and the country
has increasingly fallen behind its neighbors in Western Europe in virtually all
aspects of economic and social development. The Government's transformation
program aims at reversing this trend by creating an economic and social er /ron-
ment that is conducive to and supportive of a dynamic entrepreneurship and higher
productivity levels. In the short run, however, we face considerable disruptions
stemming from economic transformation and external shocks, including the demise
of the CMEA, the crisis in the USSR, the oil price increase and other trade
problems in connection with the Persian Gulf crisis.
3.           In 1990, economic activity continued to decline, and GDP fell by
an estimated 3.5 percent. Gross industrial production dropped by 3.7 percent,
and unemployment, unknown under central planning, rose to 1 percent of the labor
force. Consumer prices rose by 10 percent, while real wages declined by almost
6 percent. The balance of payments also came under pressure. Real exports to
CMHA countries declined by 19 percent while imports in convertible currencies
rose by 26 percent in real terms. Consequently, the convertible currency current
account deficit rose from US$440 million in 1989 to US$1,105 million in 1990,
and the nonconvertible currency current account which showed a surplus of US$500
million in 1989 recorded a deficit of US$206 million in 1990. International
reserves declined by US$1.1 billion in 1990, mostly during the third and fourth
quarters of 1990.
4.           During the first quarter of 1991 output further declined at an
annualized rate of approximately 10 percent with particularly strong contraction
in March.   This led to unemployment of some 2 percent of the labor force.
Following the price liberalization in early January, consumer prices rose by
about 40 percent in the first quarter. The monthly inflation rate dropped,
however, significantly in February and March, and the prospects for price stabi-
lization over the remainder of the year are reasonably good, even taking into
account upcoming further adjustments in heating and electricity prices. Fiocal
targets for the first quarter calling for a modest surplus have been fully met,
notwithstanding the non-programed social expenditures. Fiscal management during
this period was characterized by strict expendlture control and better than



_57 -                  AWnA: IL
Page 3 of 20
expected revenue performance, in particular from the profit taxes. As the
authorities adhered to the tight monetary program for 1991, the monetary targets
were met with a comfortable margin. Against the background of the higher than
anticipated jump in prices, the monetary program for the balance of this year
will be reviewed to ensure adequate levels of credit to the economy. In the
external sector, both exports and imports recorded significant declines. Whlle
the sharp drop of about 25 percent of exports to forer CMEA countries was anti-
cipated, the nearly 20 percent drop in exports to non-CHEA countries had not
been expected. As imports fell even more, reflecting the low output level and
lower oil prices, the external current account deficit in the first quarter of
1991 was much smaller than projected. This offsets the delays encountered in
the disbursement of external funds, without unduly jeopardizing the targeted
level of international reserves.
II. The_Government's Transformation Program
5.           Czechoslovakia's transformation program has two central objectives:
(a) rapid transition to a market economy, and (b) restoration of economic growth
towards higher standards of living, and an improved environment. In order to
achieve these goals, stabilization and structural reform golicies are being
implemented at the same time. The Government began introducing important referm
measures immediately after the elections. Retail subsidies on food were removed
in July 1990, and other important measures were also taken in the second half
of 1990, such as currency devaluations, the unification of the commercial and
tourist exchange rates, and price increases for gasoline and industrial energy
as well as for transport. The program was launched and intensified on a broad
scale at the beginning of January 1991. It is supported by a 14 month stand-
by arrangement of SDR 620 million with the IHF, supplemented by access under the
CCFF of up to SDR 484 million.
6.           The Government's transformation program is embedded in a medium-
term macroeconomic framework that has been the subject of detailed exchanges of
views between Government authorities and the World Bank. The program will be
implemented according to a t.metable that contains the various policy steps
(attached).
A. Stabilization Policies
7.           The Government's stabilization efforts are based on fiscal and
monetary restraint, complemented by appropriate exchange rate, price and wage
policies. Fiscal policy aims at an overall budget surplus, mainly as a result
of expenditure cuts. Monetary policy is based on moderate credit expansion and
interest rates that will make it attractive to hold domestic deposits. The
unified exchange rate is fixed against a basket of foreign currencies.



- 58 -                   Am"aLIT
Page 4 of 20
ElAsaL E
8.           The 1990 and 1991 surplus budgets are an indication of the
importance the Government accords to a restrictive fiscal policy. Following a
reduction of some enterprise tax rates and in anticipation of modest growth of
budgetary revenues as a result of an expected decllne in production levels, the
government is making a special effort to limit gnendltxs. Total Government
expenditures are expected to decline to 46 percent of projected GDP compared to
around 55 percent of GDP during 1988-90. This Lmplies that, government consump-
tion, transfers, defense and capital expenditures will decline substantially in
real terms. Expenditures on health and education will, however, be protected.
9.           The substantial reduction of subsidi is another important element
of the Government's effort to streamline the budget and remove price distor-
tions. Budgetary subsidies are programmed to fall to 5 percent of GDP in 1991,
compared to 16 percent of GDP in 1989. The reductions result maInly from the
elimination of the negative turnover tax on food and other consumer goods (6
percent of GDP in 1989), the elimination of foreign trade subsidies (between 1
and 3 percent of GDP) and a substantial reduction in agricultural producer
subsidies. Excluding the budgetary subsidies to energy products and those for
structural purposes (Kcs 3 billion or 0.3 percent of GDP), the bulk of subsidies
remaining in 1991--almost 90 percent--consists of subsidies to agriculture,
housing, and transport. The Government continues to place a high priority on
further subsidy reductions, both in order to rontain expenditures and to
rationalize price relations.
10.          In  ag Lcultue, subsidies are provided mainly through the 'Fund
for Market Regulation", that guarantees purchase prices of selected products to
agricultural producers, and through purpose-tied subsidies to agricultural
enterprises operating in poor conditions.  Total agricultural subsidies are
budgeted to be reduced by about one third on an annual basis in 1991 compared
with their average 1989 and 1990 levels, and would amount to about 2.5 percent
of projected GDP in 1991. These subsidies are partly and temporarily given to
agricultural enterprises operating in poor conditions.  The Government will
continue to reduce subsidies to agriculture, especially the subsidies for
producers in poor conditions by setting minimum prices at levels that provLde
gradually less protection to inefficient producers.
11.          Housing receives, next to agriculture, the largest subsidies.  The
Kcs 8 billion budgeted for 1991 will be divided roughly equally between subsidies
granted for operating state-owned flats and to low-interest housing loans made
by the Investment Bank and savings banks. The Government intends to reduce
subsidies on operating and maintenance coits for state-owned housing during the
second half of 1991, in connection with price adjustments for other housing
services (heat, energy, water). This measure would signiflcantly reduce the gap
between rents of state-owned and other housing (cooperative, private).
12.          In the trans2art sector, the railways,  inter-city, and urban
passenger transport remain subsidized. In all three areas, part of the subsidies
is due to discounted fares for specific groups (pensioners, children, students,



-59 -                   hAD       Lt
Page 5 of 20
or comuters). In the future, the Government will pursue this objective in the
context of the personal tax reform, to be implemented in 1993. As regards
general operating subsidies, the Government intends to make the railway opera-
tions self-financing (including investment in rolling stock); proposals to this
effect will be formulated by the end of 1991.   Thereafter, cost recovery
proposals regarding investments will be developed. In the areas of inter-city
and urban passenger transport, operating subsidies due to the low level of
standard fares will be reduced by at least 20 percent a year from 1991 onwards.
On April 1, 1991 local public transportation fares in Prague were raised by 40-
50 percent for passholders, and by 300 percent for single fares.
13.          Reductions in subsidies,  as well as in tax exemptions,  will
contribute considerably to the hardening of the enterprise budget constraint.
In addition, the Government has limited the granting of guarantees for loans to
enterprises, both to avoid the buildup of a potential burden on the budget and
to prevent the pre-emption of credit by inefficient yet politically powerful
enterprises. Guarantees for such loans amounted to some Kcs 9 billion in 1990,
but they will presumably not exceed Kcs 5 billion in 1992.
PMtry Policy
14.          For 1991, overall domestic credit has been projected to expand by
about 20 percent, compared to an initially projected price rise of about 30-40
percent. Consistent with this tight credit policy, the State Bank raised the
basic discount rate from 8.5 percent to 10 percent at the beginning of 1991.
Overall credit expansion was below 5 percent in the first quarter of 1991,
compared with the target ceiling of 6 percent, whereas retail prices increased
by 44 percent since end-1990. While the sharp decline in economic activities
in the first quarter of 1991 is cause for concern, the Government does not intend
to modify its basic monetary policy stance, as the cornerstone of the stabiliza-
tion program. In principle, credit and deposit rates will be determined by the
market. In view of the fledgling nature of the banking system, direct credit
ceilings for commercial banks will, however, remain an important iaretrument of
credit policy in 1991. The development of an efficient payments clearing system,
expected to be operational by late 1991, will support the establishment of an
interbank (money) market and improve the implementation of indirect instruments
for controlling commaercial banks.
gXhan;e Regime
15.          The introduction of a unified exchange rate, aimed at bringing
about a sustainable balance of payments represents a major step in Czechos-
lovakia's transition to a market economy.  As part 4f a fundamental change of
the international trade and exchange system, the commercial and tourist exchange
rates were unified on December 28, 1990 at Kcs 28 - US$1. To complement other
stabilization measures, the nominal exchange rate will be maintained stable
against a basket of five currencies.



- 60 -                  AM" _X
Page 6 of 20
16.          The Government's wage policy has the objectlve of both ensuring
that inflation is not fueled by undue wage increases, and encouraging differen-
tiation of individual wages to reflect differences in productivity. In the first
year of the transition to a market economy, relatively more weight has been given
to the stabilization aspect. Therefore, in this phase the wage policy is regar-
ded as a necessary complement to the restrictive monetary and fiscal policies.
The Government, in close consultation with trade unions and enterprises, will
limit iage growth in 1991 to an amount significantly below the increase in the
cost of living index. Heavy prohibitive excess wage taxes will be applied for
enterprises granting wage increases higher than agreed under the indexing
formula. At the same time, wage controls in the private sector will be removed.
Real wages can be expected to decline in 1991 more than in 1990 which is a
necessary symptom of the transition period.
B.  Srtural and Institutional Reforms
Overall Orientation and Kedium-Term Framework
17.          From the outset, the Government supplemented the stabilization
measures with a number of important and radical structural changes. Price forma-
tion and foreign trade were almost completely liberalized at the beginning of
1991. Administrative and procedural constraints to the development of private
sector activities have been removed. The other pillars of the transformation
program are privatization and commercialization of state-owned enterprises; an
energy policy aimed at efficiency and conservation (in the broader context of
onvironmental sustainability); the reform and development of the financial
system; and the pursuit of social sector policies to mitigate the short-term
impact and secure the long-term success of economic transformation.
Dza P11x
18.          Improved public sector saving will be a major component of the
Government's medium-term transformation strategy.   In order to iia,rove the
efficiency with which it raises resources, a maLor tax reform is under prepa-
ration to be implemented in January 1993.   Its guiding principles will be
simplification, transparency, neutrality, and thus ease of tax administration.
Tax bases, rates and procedures will be overhauled. The turnover tax is to be
replaced by a value added tax, the profits taxes are to be unified, the various
taxes on personal income are to be replaced by a single tax, and the payroll tax
is to be replaced by uniform social security contributions. Specific proposals
for each of these taxes will be prepared by mid-1991. Particular attention will
be paid to equal treatment of both domestic and foreign economic agents, and
therefore to the issues of tax holidays, differences in rates of taxation between
domestic enterprises and joint ventures, provisions for depreciation, and diffe-
rent treatment by type of income under the personal income tax. In addition,
the tax reform will reduce to a minimum the considerable discretion the tax



- 61 -                  A6MLZ1
Page 7 of 20
authorities have hitherto enjoyed in waiving tax liabilities. Already in 1991
no ex Rost tax exemptions will be granted. A comprehensive information program
for the public on the major features of the new tax system will be prepared
before mid-1992.
19.          The Government will continue its prudent foreign borrowing strategy,
and the State Bank of Czechoslovakia and Ministry of Finance will closely monitor
the development of new debt contracting as well as debt servicing requirements.
It recognizes the importance of reliable and timely external debt information
in assessing Czechoslovakia's foreign debt, creditworthiness, and economic
management.  It is therefore putting in place a program to enhance effective
external debt management.  A centralized debt unit has been established to
enhance inter-agency coordination. The relative responsibilities of the State
Bank of Czechoslovakia, the Ministry of Finance, and other agencies concerned
are being defined. The information gathering system will be improved by a
broader coverage of debt information (e.g., including data on commitments and
pipeline amounts) and enhanced analytical capability.
Price Liberaliation
20.          Starting in 1990, major changes were introduced to rationalize the
price system and to reduce the heavy budgetary burden of subsidies, culminating
in the price liberalization of January 1991. In early 1990, price determination
was decentralized and prices of a few miscellaneous goods and services were
deregulated. This was followed by the elimination of retail price subsidies on
foodstuffs in July 1990. The abolition of this subsidy (mostly on food items)
raised food prices by about 25 percent (and overall retail prices by 7 percent).
This was compensated by an income transfer to households of Kcs 140 per month
for each person. In the wake of the Gulf crisis and reduced oil supplies from
the Soviet Union during the second half of 1990, fuel prices were adjusted to
world market levels to provide incentives for energy conservation and limit the
impact of supply disruptions.
21.          Following these initial adjustments, Rrices were liberalized on
January 1, 1991, eliminating most price controls and moving to a system of
market-de-.ermined prices except for a small number of items.   The price
liberalization covers both wholesale and retail prices and includes about 85
percent of retail sales. At the same time, a far-reaching import liberaliza-
tion was implemented to enhance competition in domestic markets, after a
devaluation of the exchange rate.
22.          Maximum prices remained in effect for a limited period for a few
basic consumer items (flour, potatoes, sugar), and price increases for some
basic industrial commodities were limited to domestic production costs (rather
than world prices), so as to dampen speculative price increases, to prevent
excessive profits and disruptions in domestic supplies. Until the end of 1991,
temporary price controls will be phased out whereas controlled prices will apply
primarily to utilities, rents in state-owned housing, public transport, coal and
pharmaceuticals.  !he value added of products under price control after June 1,



- 62 -                  Amex 11
Page 8 of 20
1991 has been estimated at around 8 to 10 percent of GDP, and would decline to
some 5 or 6 percent after October 1, 1991.
23.          Czechoslovakia has taken significant and far-reaching steps to
liberalize its foreign trade so that the country can benefit from the competi-
tion provided through foreign suppliers and integrate quickly into the European
and world economies. At the beginning of 1991, the Koruna was made convertible
in the sense that enterprises can buy foreign exchange from banks for current
aceount transactions without limitations (internal convertibility). At the end
of 1990, all quantitative restrictions on imports were eliminated except for a
few items (crude oil, natural gas, arms, and ammunition). Moreover, a unified
tariff structure applied to goods imported by legal or natural persons, while
at the same time tariffs were unilaterally reduced for a limited number (69) of
goods subject to high duties (between 12 and 70 percent, with a global average
tariff of 46.3 percent), mostly intermediate products. As a result, the average
tariff on these products is now 11.1 percent. A new import tariff schedule will
be prepared by the end of 1991 and implemented in the course of 1992. Finally,
the export premium scheme for exports to the convertible currency area was
abolished and export licenses removed, except for textile, steel, meat, and
roughly 100 intermediate goods, to be further reduced to 65 on June 1, 1991,
mainly in connection with domestic price controls, subsidies, and import
restrictions in partner countries. As a result, Czechoslovakia's trade remains
subject to only two constraints, namely temporary import surcharges and export
licenses, in addition to the existing tariff schedule.
24;          In order to stem a possible import surge in connection with the
trade liberalization, we introduced a 20 percent temporary import surcharge on
consumer goods and foodstuffs at the end of 1990. The measure still needs to
be approved by GATT during its July 1991 meeting. The Government realizes that
the surcharge is distortionary and intends to abolish it as soon as possible.
It has therefore already reduced the rate twice, which stands now at 15 percent.
It also reduced its coverage on May 1, 1991.
25.          Export licenses have been maintained for reasons related to national
security, management of quotas imposed by some trading partners, and domestic
market supply in the presence of remaining price regulations. To be coherent
with .ae policy of repealing domestic price regulations until the end of 1991
(except for those products mentioned in para. 22), the export license require-
ments will be reviewed and phased out accordingly.
26.          In line with the transition to a market economy, foreign trade is
now open to individual enterprises, subject only to the above regulations.
However, the Government is not opposed to barter trade arrangements negotiated
by Czechoslovak firms with their foreign partners, if these firms believe that
such contracts are an appropriate method for adjusting to the current economic
conditions in some trading partner countries.



- 63 -                  Am" 1I
Page 9 of 20
GCmetitign Rolic
27.          While the Government considers trade and price liberalization as
well as privatization as basic instruments to ensure competition on the domestic
market, it also recognizes that entry conditions for new private businesses and
the preclusion of unfair trade practices are crucial for the efficient
functioning of markets. Licensing requirements for nei businesses in all goods
and service producing fields are limited to only registration processes at the
local level, subject to public health and security considerations as appropriate.
Moreover, the Government is reviewing, and will amend as appropriate, company
and commercial legislation as well as regulations pertaining to land ownership
to facilitate the efficient functioning of private enterprise of all sizes.
28.          To counteract unfair economic competition practices, the Competi-
tion Protection Act was adopted on January 30, 1991. In application of the Act,
the Federal Office for Economic Competition was set up as an autonomous entity
in Bratislava, now headed by the Minister-Chairman of the Federal Office for
Economic Competition.   Anti-Trust Offices with functions oriented to the
protection of economic competition in the two Republics were also established.
The Act, similar to the practice in EC countries, focuses on (i) a ban in
principle (with possible exceptions) of agreements restraining competition or
concerting trade practices, both horizontally and vertically; (ii) control of
abuse of dominant market positions covering at least 30 percent of supplies in
the relevant market; (iii) control of mergers subject to the above market domina-
tion rule; and (iv) protection of persons against illicit trade restraints. The
Act also provides the basis for administrative procedures to prevent or break
up monopolies, within the framework of the privatization process.
29.          In order to be able to discharge their function of monitoring
competitive practices in the evolving market economy properly, the Anti-Trust
Offices will prepare statutes and by-laws that will define their working
procedures and internal responsibilities for the proceedings. Over time the
Offices are expected to establish guidelines for interpreting the Act and deter-
mine clear areas of competency and rules for decision making within the Offices.
Most importantly, the Government is encouraging the Anti-Trust Offices to address
concrete cases of unfair competition, monopolistic behavior and prevention of
emerging competitive processes without delay, so that they can gain early expe-
rience and establish their monitoring responsibility early and convincingly.
Within a year's time the Government will review both th. experience with the
Competition Protection Act and the results of the work of the Anti-Trust Offices,
and take corrective steps to improve regulations and decision-making procedures
in the area of anti-trust policy, if needed.
,ti Atization
30.          The Government is committed to a program of rapld privatization.
It intends to privatize most of the state owned sector, which until recently
accounted for almost 100 percent of gross domestic production, by breaking up
large monopolies, and selling enterprises through "small" and "large" privati-
zation processes.   The Government is also committed to assuring that those



- 64 - 
Page 10 of 20
enterprises which cannot be privatized in the short run act in as commercial a
fashion as possible in full accord with the transition to a market economy.
31.          In January 1991, the Government began to privatize units under the
sAl"- uritization law. Approximately 120,000 restaurants, retail stores,
small service units, and kiosks, are being auctioned off to the highest bidder.
Any person holding Czechoslovak citizenship at any time since February 25, 1948,
may participate in the sale by depositing 10 percent of the asking price or Kcs
10,000 (whichever is higher).   The Government has designed this process to
proceed rapidly and fairly. The auctions are widely advertised and held on
Saturday and Sunday to assure maximum participatlon. While the start-up has been
a little slower than expected, about 2,500 small businesses were privatized in
the first three months of the program and an additional 10,000 businesses will
be privatized by mid-1991. The Government recognizes that some citizens may not
be able to participate because savings are limited, and has asked the banks to
give priority to credits for privatization. The Government intends to prlvatize
at least 50,000 small establishments a year with the aim of completing the
process in two years (except for those properties where a claimant has ask'-d for
restitution as a former owner).
32.          In February 1991, the Parliament approved a law authorizing the
transfer of state property for business purposes or "large" nrivatization, under
which the Government expects to privatize most of the approximately 4,000 large
state-owned enterprises.    The enterprises can be divided into three basic
groups: (i) enterprises that, for various reasons, will not be privatized in
the short-term (3 to 5 years). The post office, rallways, power utilities, etc.,
and a number of large enterprises in the steel and mining subsectors belong to
this group; (ii) enterprises that can be prlvatized in the standard case-by-
case method of sale to foreign or domestic entrepreneurs; and (iii) enterpri-
ses that wlll be privatized with the help of so-called investment vouchers in
one or two privatization waves. The first and second groups comprise about 1,000
enterprises each, and the third group comprises about 2,000 enterprises. State
assets where the ownership may be in dispute will not be privatized until the
dispute has been settled. In addition, where there is sufficient local interest
to allow a competitive auction for a state-owned enterprise (according to the
small privatization route described above), this mode of privatization is being
followed.
33.          All enterprises in groups (ii) and (iii) are now preparing together
with their founders (sector minlstry or other agency), "privatization projects".
These projects (i) designate the assets to be privatized and their book value,
after adjusting for uncollectible debts, unusable assets, etc; (ii) detail the
proposed method of transfer of the assets to be privatized, including, as appli-
cable: shares to be sold c. otherwise allocated to employees, shares to be sold
to private third parties .znd the form of such sales, as well as the price and
payment conditions), and methods proposed for settling any valid claims; and
(lii) include a timetable for the implementation of the privatization project.
As a rule, enterprises will opt for one privatization method or another, although
a mixture of standard and voucher privatizatlon may occur in some cases.
Consequently, if an enterprise has proposed and is ready to be privatized through



- 65 -                 AemUL II
Page 11 of 20
the standard privatization method, all of its shares will be privatized through
this method. Similarly, if an enterprise, for lack of investment from a major
investor, has chosen the voucher method, privatization would take place fully
through the investment method. In the voucher method, no shares will be left
for government ownership or sale to individual investors for cash payment. In
some cases, the Republics may mandate that each privatization project also
include a provision to set aside a certain proportion of the shares to provide
a fund for contingent liabilities such as restitution to previous owners.
Privatization projects are presented by the founding ministry to the Republic
Ministry of Privatization for approval (or in the case of federally-owned assets,
to the Federal Ministry of Finance). Special cases, including those privatiza-
tion projects which call for private non-competitive sale, are subject to appro-
val by the Governments of the Republics.
34.          Enterprises will be privatized in the condition they are in at the
time of privatization, including their debt. The Government will not reorganize
or restructure financially enterprises prior to their privatization because such
tasks are beyond the Government's capacity. Then, on the designated date, the
privatized property (including rights and obligations as well as physical assets)
will be transferred to either the Federal or one of the Republic National
Property Funds established under the privatization law. The Funds will subse-
quently transfer the ownership of this property to the new owners according to
the stipulations of the privatization project. The existing debt associated
with the assets will also be transferred, but the Fund will provide a guarantee
to the creditor.  The Funds may not have sufficient resources to meet all
contingent liabilities.  As one means of alleviating the potential burden of
these liabilities on the budget, the Government will consider retaining a
minority of shares (non-voting) for subsequent sale. Detailed regulations for
preparing and implementing the privatization projects have been put in place.
35.          In the course of the past few weeks and months, it has become clear
that it is not practical to define clear-cut criteria according to which
enterprises will be selected for the voucher or standard privatization method.
Any enterprise that will present a convincing standard privatization method will
be privatized according to that method. The Government expects that up to some
1000 enterprises may be ready to be privatized through the standard privatization
method, although it realizes that the number could be much smaller. The urgent
requirement to privatize as many enterprises as possible in the interest of a
rapid transition to a market economy largely determines the number of enterprises
to go the voucher route. The first wave of some 1,000 enterprises in group (iii)
will present their privatization projects to the Privatization Ministry by
November 1991, and the first round within the first wave of privatization through
the voucher system is expected to take place in January 1992, with the second
wave being expected by September 1992.
36.          For a nominal fee of Kcs 1000, the Government is proposing to issue
investment voucherij to all Czechoslovak citizens who are permanent residents and
over the age of 18 years. These vouchers are a vehicle to transfer ownership
of a substantial proportion of state-owned assets to a large number of private
citizens, despite the shortage of domestic capital.  Through a competitive



-66 -                    Ann   II
Page 12 of 20
bidding process, vouchers will be exchanged for shares in privatizing companies,
either directly or through one of a number of financial intermediaries which will
be established for this purpose by Czechoslovak banks and other qualified and
interested agencieso.
37.          If there is insufficient demand for the enterprises offered for
privatization through the voucher system, the enterprises in question could be
offered again for privatization in the next round, be liquidated, or offered
for a lower price to a foreign investor.
38.          The Government is proposing that in those cases where there is no
other dominant ownership interest, intermediaries will be "active', in the sense
that through ownership of at least 10 percent of an enterprise's stock, they will
be able to intervene in its overall management. In other cases, intermediaries
will be "passive" and focus on the management of their portfolios as a whole in
order to maximize returns to their shareholders.   Details on the system of
investment vouchers, the bidding process, and the role and functioning of
financial intermediaries in the voucher privatization system have been prepared.
39.          Proceeds from the large and small privatizations will be deposi-
ted in the National Property Funds, that are not part of the state budgets.
These funds will be used only in connection with an approved privatization
proposal and only to pay the expenses of the privatization process itself,
provide financial restitution, or where necessary, to meet a part of the
financial obligations of enterprises scheduled for privatization.
40.          The Government estimates that no more than 10 percent of commer-
cial property will be affected by restitutogn. Under a restitution law enacted
in February 1991, it intends to make restitution to those former owners who are
citizens and residents, and whose businesses and property were confiscated after
1948 or who otherwise suffered material injustices, if they apply for restitution
before September 30, 1991. In some cases restitution will be done through the
return of the property or business, in others, through financial compensation,
to a maximum of Kcs 30,000 in cash, with any additional compensation paid in the
form of schemes for privatizing companies. The provisions of the Restitution
Law will in no way slow down the privatization process.
41.          According to the existing law, it is at present not possible to
change the legal status of the state enterprises unless it has been decided that
It will be privatized immediately afterwards. The change of the legal status
of an enterprise is viewed solely as a way of preporing the enterprise for
privatization. The "large privatization law", however, does not allow for the
conversion of an enterprise into a joint-stock company with the sectoral ministry
as the only shareholder. On the way to privatization, the National Property
Funds will instead become the founder of the joint-stock company and its seller.
The Funds will entrust the property of the state-owned enterprise into the newly
created company and sell the company's shares as foreseen by the approved priva-
tization project. This means that the Government will not change the legal or
organizational status of the group that will not be privatized in the short-
run. Rather, the authorities expect the performance of such enterprises to



- 67 -                   AnS xI
Page 13 of 20
improve, mainly through imposing restrictive monetary and fiscal policy.
Exceptions to this policy are possible but they are unlikely to play an important
role during the transformation process.
42.          The Government, though placing a high priority on privatization of
state-owned enterprises during the initial phase of the transformation program,
believes that the emergence of new entrepreneurial activities will be a much more
important source of economic growth and dynamic development than the reform or
restructuring of the existing enterprises. It views privatization as the most
importent way for opening up space for new entrepreneurs entering the market.
New entries are unlikely without widespread exits of existing enterprises.
Liquidations of enterprises have not yet really started, and the Government is
concerned that unemployment may rise quickly without, at the same time, being
accompanied by a high bankruptcy rate. Privatization is therefore also viewed
as an effective means of a radical application of the Bankruptcy Law that is
under preparation and expected to be adopted by Parliament in the second half
of 1991.
43.          The Government recognizes the importance of modern and interna-
tionally accepted accounting principles and procedures for moving rapidly to a
market economy. Revised accounting standards are already in place for sall
businesses and civil organizations. A Law on Accounting, that reflects fully
internationally accepted standards, is under preparation. The Law is expected
to be adopted in the second half of 1991, and to be applied from the beginning
of 1992. A new Auditing Law, also under preparation, will be applied at the same
time.   Training programs for teaching staff and financial specialists of
enterprises will be held regularly, and independent private auditing firms have
already come into existence.
Financial Sector Reform
44.          The Government recognizes the pivotal role of the financial sector
in a market economy. Fundamental restructuring and further development of the
financial sector is crucial for transforming the economy.   The treaisitional
process will be particularly complex, since many problems in the financial sector
are closely associated with enterprise reform. New financial instruments and
institutions must be devised to mobilize financial savings, improve the effi-
ciency of resource use at the enterprise level within the strict imposition of
financial discipline, and ensure overall monetary control. The Government has
embarked on a far-reachine program for reforming and strengthening the financial
sector, while at the same time pursuing tight monetary policy in support of the
stabilization program.
45.          Legal and -Suverviooy Framework.   The Ministry of Finance, the
State Bank, and the Ministries of Finance of the two Republics have defined the
responsibilities for the regulation of financial services (banking, securities,
investment management and insurance), including licensing new institutions,
issuing prudential requirements, conducting supervision, and imposing sanctions
for violating rules and regulations according to uniform nation-wide standards.
As a first step in the implementation of comprehensive financial services



- 68 -                  an    II
Page 14 of 20
regulation, new draft banking and central bank laws will be presented to the
Federal Assembly in September 1991.
46.          The compilation of management-oriented monetary statistics and
prudential supervision was initiated with the introduction of a new accounting
plan and new reporting system on January 1, 1991. Domestic banks are expected
to fully comply with the new accounting plan within two years. The reporting
system serves as the basis for routine off-site surveillance of the banks.
Banking legislation and prudential rules, the development of supervision and
enforcement capabilities, and improvements to the licensing process will be
adopted by end-1991 prior to second tranche release.
47.          Institutional Develonment. The Government's financial sector reform
focuses on:  (i) further strengthening of the State Bank as the institution
responsible for sound monetary policy; and (ii) introduction of basic banking
services, with an initial emphasis on the strengthening of existing institutions.
As regards the State Bank, a reform program was initiated with the assistance
of the INF, the World Bank, and a number of foreign Central Banks.   This
comprises the development of adequate skills and procedures in the areas of
monetary analysis and policy implementation, foreign exchange operations, bank
supervision, and in the supporting organizational structure. The State Bank has
also provided guidance in the development of an automated payments clearing
system for banks which is expected to be operational by the end of 1991.
48.          A two-tier banking system was established at the beginning of 1990
by divesting the commercial operations of the State Bank into two commercial
banks and an investment bank. The focus is now on the financial restructuring
and institutional development of the major banking institutions. With a view
to the medium-term development of the banking system, complete financial audits
of major banks will be undertaken, including review of their portfolio. These
audits will be completed by mid-1992.
49.          The restructuring of banks' balance sheets will be undertaken as
rapidly as possible. The Government acknowledges that a certain proportion of
the banks' loan portfolio may prove uncollectible, and will develop appropriate
contingency plans. The Government also realizes that privatization of banks may
require their prior financial rehabilitation. Prior to third tranche release,
the authorities will define the governing principles to be used as a basis for
addressing the inadequacies in the structure of the baniing sector, the risk and
potential losses in the banks' portfolios, the corporatization and privatization
of banks.
50.          In support of longer-term sector development, the State Bank decided
to establish a training institute for banks with branches in Prague and
Bratislava. A medium-term training program will be ready for review by the World
Bank by December 31, 1991.



- 69 -                  AntkeX TI
Page 15 of 20
51.          The Government's energy pricing policy in the long-term is guided
by the principles of (a) deregulating prices for oll, oil products and coal,
and liberalizing imports and exports of these products; and (b) establishing an
autonomous regulatory process for utilities (electricity, beat, and natural
gas), whereby tariffs will be set equal to economic costs.   Tariffs for
tradeables (e.g., natural gas) will be set equal to international prices plus
transportation, storage and distribution costs, with passing through of changes
in international prices; and tariffs for non-tradeable goods and services (e.g.,
electricity and heat) will be set equal to long run marginal costs (includlng
production/generation, transportation/transmission, and distribution costs),
passing through changes in input fuel prices based on a fuel adjustment clause.
All energy products will be subject to the Value Added Tax (VAT) when it is
established. Additional consumption taxes on transport fuels will remain in
place. The Government is also considering charging additional environmental
taxes on coal, and possibly on some other fuels (e.g., gasoline and diesel).
All environbental costs related to the production, transportation and distribu-
tion of energy will be borne entirely by the enterprises causing the damage, and
be covered by tariffs and prices whenever they are regulated. During an initial
transition period prices and tariffs will be progressively adjusted towards
economic cost levels. Increases will be made in such a way that the relative
structure of prices for different types of consumers reflect the relative
structure of estimated economic costs to avoid inefficient inter-fuel substitu-
tion.   In the short-run, however, overall economic concerns, in particular
inflation and its social impact, will also be taken into account in deciding on
the pace of required price adjustments.
52.          1 ices for oil and petroleum products were increased in July,
October, and December 1990, reaching the equivalent of US$30 per barrel of crude
oil at the then prevailing exchange rate of Kcs 24 per US$l. In spite of the
fact that the price of oil fell to US$20 per barrel, developments in the exchange
rate (Kcs 31 per US$) caused prices of gasoline and diesel to stabilize during
the period of January-May 1991. Import price changes for oil are being passed
through on a monthly basis. Prices of oil products are under specific regulation
permitting refineries to adjust their prices to cost c'hanges. Taxes were changed
from an ad valorem (300 percent over previous prices) to a specific rate, so as
to have stable government revenue and to limit the increase in consumer prices
last December to the increase in ex-refinery prices.
53.          Following the energy price increases in December 1990, energy sales
to induatav are row close to their economic cost. Fuel coal (steam coal and
lignite) prices for industry were increased by 50 percent, and electricity and
natural gas tariffa for industry wore increased by 53 percent and 143 percent,
respectively. In March 1991, the Government and the Bank conducted jointly a
preliminary review of rough estimates (in view of difficulties in obtaining
appropriate estimates of investment cost in Czechoslovakia) of long-run marginal
costs of electricity supply (RLRMC). It was found that electricity tariffs for
industry (and other large high-voltage customers) and for houaiholds amounted
to about 90 percent and 55 to 60 percent of estimated ELRKC respectively. The



- 70 -                  AM" tI
Page 16 of 20
Government increased industrial electricity prices by another 80 percent in April
1991. As a result, the structure of electricity pricing has become severely
distorted:  high-voltage tariffs have become significantly higher than low-
voltage ones, as the increased revenue needs of power supply companies have been
recovered primarily from industrial consumers.
54.          Prior to the second tranche release, a least-cost investment program
will be prepared, and a long-run marginal cost study for electricity will be
completed. A suitable pricing structure will be developed on the basis of the
study. Average tariffs for industrial consumers will be at least equal to their
calculated long-run marginal cost, and tariffs for household consumers will be
raised roughly by 70 percent, narrowing the gap between prices for industrial
consumers and households. In fact, there will obviously be no need to change
prices for industrial consumers because they are expected to be higher than newly
defined ELRMC. At the time of the second tranche release, therefore, the gap
between average industrial and household prices will be lower than it was in
March 1991. Until recently energy prices for households were considerably below
their estimated economic costs. On Kay 1, 1991, the Government raised heat, coal
and gas prices for households by more than 100 percent (324 percent for heat,
233 percent for coal and 135 percent for gas). As a result, natural gas rates
are some two-thirds of their respective estimated economic costs or border
prices, plus transmission and distribution costs, heat rates from coal thermal
sources, and coal prices for households are equal to the prices for producers.
Most current budgetary subsidies to the corresponding utilities and enterprises
have thus been eliminated
55.          Utilities in charge of supplying electricity, heat, and natural
gas to consumers enjoy natural monopolistic powers and thus require some type
of governmental supervision, though not operational control.   A system of
meconomic regulation' will be put into place, whereby the companies' financial
soundness and operational autonomy will be assured, while at the same time pre-
serving the quality of the service provided and the rights of consumers. Health,
safety, and environmental impact will also be regulated through this system.
The Government will prepare a plan of action for establishing a regulatory
framework and bodies for public utilities. This plan will be discussed and
reviewed with the Bank.   A Public Utilities Law would establish the legal
predicate and procedures for economic regulations of enterprises which produce,
transport, and distribute electric energy, natural gas, town gas and thermal
(heat) energy. The Law would define the scope of regulation; the procedures for
implementing the legislation; and the structure, powers and jurisdiction of the
regulating bodies.   The draft Law will be submitted to the appropriate
legislative assemblies prior to third tranche release. The regulating agencies
will also codify regulations for the protection of public health, safety and the
environment.
56.          Improving the environment is an integral and necessary part of the
economic transformation process. Improvements in economic efficiency resulting
from economic pricing and commercialization and privatization of enterprises are



- 71 -Annex II
Page 17 of 20
expected to reduce pollution while only creating a minimal additional financial
burden. Adjustment of all energy prices to long-run marginal costs or interna-
tional prices will go a long way towards pollution abatement.
57.          The Government issued an environmental policy statement in 1990.
A new Environmental Law which determines the relative responsibilities for
proteoting the environment, the level and structure of environmental standards
and financing modes for environmental protection, will be submitted to Parliament
prior to second tranche release. In addition, specific laws for protecting the
air, and for waste management will become effective by end-1991. Prior to third
tranche release, the Federal and Republic governments intend to Introduce
environmental assessment procedures consistent with international practice, to
be applied to all new public and private investments.
58.          By end 1991, the Government will prepare a medium-term environmen-
tal action program that will: (i) spell out emission standards and a system of
fees, fines, prices and taxes which are based on the *polluter pays" principle
and that reflect the social costs of polluting; (ii) prepare pilot projects for
decentralized management of air and water quality at the regional level; and
(iii) develop means for greater public participation in environmental decision-
making, including access to information.   Public resources generated from
pollution charges, fines, and fees will be used to finance environmental
projects. The Government is also considering issuing special environmental bonds
through which local authorities could raise funds for environmental investments.
Labor Markets and the Social Sectors
59.          To ensure that political support for rapid economic change is not
compromised, the Government has created a safety net comprising interrelated
measures in the areas of income maintenance, employment services and creation,
training, education, and health. To foster the human capital base needed to
generate and sustain a supply response to the new economic environment, in
particular through increased labor mobility, the Government recognizes that
profound structural change is needed in the education, training, and health
sectors to achieve greater relevance, effectiveness and efficiency.
60.          Wage Policy. The Government is committed to move away from a system
of tariff wages determined by administrative intervention towards one characte-
rized by decentralized bargaining between workers and management, and reflecting
differences in worker productivity. Under current economic conditions, however,
wages must be constrained to contain inflationary pressures. The Government has
also established a minimum wage to supplement its cash benefit programs as the
primary instruments of its income support policy. Specifically, the Government
agreed with union and employer representatives on a system of permitted adjust-
ments in the wage bill of public-sector enterprises which can be expected to
result in a decline in real wages in 1991. This system of constraining increases
in the wage bill, including punitive taxation of increases exceeding agreed
levels, will be continued essentially unmodified in 1992.



-72-                   Am" II
Page 18 of 20
61.          From the beginning of 1992, further liberalization of wage determi-
nation will occur. At the end of 1991, prior to second tranche release, all
remaining regulation of private-sector wages will be terminated, except for
compliance with the minimum wage. In the public sector, the current rigid tariff
wage system will be replaced by a flexible wage structure that reflects market-
determined productivity differentials. These measures will be part of regula-
tions codifying norms for collective bargaining.
62.          Income Maintenance.  The Government is committed to ensuring a
minimally adequate standard of living for individuals and families adversely
affected by the reform process. This objective is pursued through a full ran4e
of cash benefit programs structured to motivate self-reliance and also, in the
current climate of fiscal restraint, tightly targeted in the interest of afforda-
bility. To these ends, the Government has taken or intends to take specific
measures outlined below.
63.          The Act on Employment, as further elaborated by Republic laws,
stipulates that the unemployed will be compensated for up to one year at 60-65
percent of the net wage received in the last job, or 70 percent if the person
is nirolled in a retraining program. By the beginning of 1992, the Government
int, is to amend the Act on Employment to limit unea lo=nt Cbenefits to a
m^^axN related to the net average wage, and to restrict coverage so that only
individuals dismissed from employment are eligible, with the possible exception
of school leavers.   The Government will also review the replacement rate
provisions, with a view to incorporating greater incentive to return to work,
and in particular to participate in retraining programs.
64.          The Government will ensure that resources, both manpower and
finance, are adequate to develop and maintain unemployment compensation and
active _emniymen_ services. To this end, the Government will establish in 1992
a system to monitor and project unemployment on a monthly basis, thereby facili-
tating advance reviews of the adequacy of provision of budgetary, personnel, and
physical resources for Employment Offices. Important aspects of this effort are
to develop a standard management information system and to link the Employment
Offices and Ministries of Labor and Social Affairs with modern communications
technology. The Government has further determined that no more than 75 percent
of the resources available to Employment Offices will be used to pay unem-
ployment benefits, to ensure sufficient financing for active employment services,
training, and job creation programs.
65.          By the end of 1991, the Government will reform sick pay bgenfits
making the provision of sick pay an enterprise obligation for the first four
weeks of sickness, while decreasing the payroll tax by an equivalent amount in
order to achieve cost neutrality for both the social security system and
enterprises.
66.          Concerning pensios the Government intends to protect the most
vulnerable through a target indexation approach whereby the minimum pension is
fully adjusted for relevant price changes, but pensions above the minimum are
adjusted at most in line with changes in average earnings.  The Government



- 73 -                 6unnexU
Page 19 of 20
intends also by ond-1991, prior to second tranche release, to pass legislation
withdrawing the right to pension for the first five years of retirement for
individuals who continue working. By mid-1992, prior to third tranche release,
recognizing the importance of federation-wide labor and capital markets, the
Government intends to pass legislation introducing a social insurance fund. The
legislation would also introduce consistency in the treatment of contributions
and benefits under the future personal income tax.
67.          The Government recognizes that early expansion of sgeial assLstance
is critical to the strategy of targeting of benefits. The Government recently
announced its intention to speed up the introduction of social assistance by
making adequate budgetary provision to meet the start-up costs of the expanded
system (accommodation, equipment, personnel).  Though social assistance was
previously a local responsibility, the Government recognizes that the risks
associated with a market economy require a framework which is federation wide,
even if administration is local. By the end of 1991, prior to second tranche
release, the Government intends to introduce legislation and draft the necessary
regulations for a federation-wide framework for social assistance, including:
(a) a federation-wide benefit level (at somewhat below the minimum pension), and
(b) a system in which costs would be shared between the different levels of
government.
68.          The Government recognizes that current family allowances are with
regard to big families high by international standards, and will not index them
in 1991 and 1992.  The Government intends to carry out a thorough review of
family support in connection with the tax reform.
69.          The GovernvAent regards general income support as transitory and
intends to eliminate it in connection with the planned reform of taxes, pensions
and other public programs.  In the meantime, theis general income support
payments will not be indexed, in order to provide resources to fill the financing
gaps in other programs. By the end of 1991, prior to second tranche release,
the Government will announce its decision to replace general income support at
the latest by January 1, 1993 by such targeted benefits as social assistance.
To ensure administrati en icisnc   in the delivery of benefits, the Government
is committed to staffing Employment and Social Assistance Offices adequately.
70.          Health.   The Governments are committed to improve the health of
the population by the provision of efficient and effective health services, and
by educational, l.egislative, and fiscal policies which influence life styles,
pollution, and safety at work. A private sector in health care will emerge,
and a reasonable private/public mix will develop to ensure the provision of
comprehensive preventive and curative services, and to increase the quality and
choice available to the population. The Governments will adopt national programs
of health promotion and protection, and introduce policies to reduce the most
negative trends (cardiovascular diseases, neoplasms, mental health, birth
control, etc.). The health care reforms aim at abolishing the previous centra-
lized and monopolistic health service structures. The Governments acknowledge
the urgency of introducing cost-containment measures, and will establish bodies
to conduct a comprehensive review of medical education and research with a view



- 74- _                 UIIXI
Page 20 of 20
to increasing their integration, improving quality, end reducing costs. By mid-
1992, the Governments will also introduce legislation for the creation of
national health insurance systems, including the participation of the private
sector in the financing and provision of health care, and introduction of user
charges for selected services and materials.
71.          Train n. Appropriate skills training for new labor market entrants
and retraining for those now in the labor force, especially the unemployed, are
indispensable components of a successful transition to a market economy. The
Act on EKployment (December 4, 1990) thus stipulates that local Employment
Offices wll organize retraining of the unemployed, through contracts with quali-
fied training providers financed from budgetary resources. The Government will
ensure the effective use of these and other resources available for active labor
market measures, intgr alig by instructing Employment Offices to incorporate job
placement performance  criteria in training contracts.   In addition, the
Government has determined that all enterprises will share the costs of occupa-
tion-specific job training, either by providing training directly or by contribu-
ting towards a fund used to promote training. To this end, the Government will
prepare at the latest by end-1992 legislation to implement the new training
finance policy.
72.          Secondary Education.  Law 171 (May 1990) and Law 522 (December
1990) provide a policy framework for education appropriate for a democratic
society and market economy. The Republic Governments have embarked upon a review
of options to improve the relevance, effectiveness, and efficiency of secondary
education. An important issue is the future of the apprenticeship schools. The
review emphasizes the need for young students to acquire higher order cognitive
skills for problem-solving in shifting working environments.
73.          Higher Education and Scientific Research. The Government recognizes
the need to diversify, expand, and improve higher education. In the immediate
future quality improvements are more important than quantitative expansions.
In passing Act 172, a new policy framework for higher education was established,
based on the dual principles of the autonomy of establishments to manage their
own affairs and the obligation of the state to provide a major proportion of the
financial resources necessary to sustain and improve the system. In 1991, the
Republic Governments intend to remove restrictions on the authority of establish-
ments to manage their own resources, and to develop a system, to become effective
in 1992, for distributing the limited public resources available for higher
education on the basis of transparent performance-related criteria. Thereafter,
appropriate and detailed proposals regarding cost recovery in education, and
disposal of revenues from fees or sales of services will be developed. Further-
more, a system of competitive research awards will be introduced in 1992 to
stimulate independent and innovative research activities.



LtCa mA           TO BIIE INIK IW 1i llE TR 3E OF llE
lSU.Wu  uuum OF IIE C            e M  SLIO FEIRAL EJLIC
AS 3ESISM I nE T       A    OF  DW LT P1OC
O*jaCi                    Actfms already t-I,            Prfor to Board Pmeswatlen      By  _nwd Tr . 1/             By Tbird Trub 
Control inflation &A      Control inflatfin by:           . Satisfactory execution of    . satisfactory execution of    .Satisfactorsy exactn of
mints! a                  . Lfiting dastic credit         stabilization policies and   stabilzation policies and    stabiliztien poicles
sntalidae basom           ansIon to 20 prcent in          OMernc to agreed ou"n        aence to ard uon
of pal                    lsl                             perfor        crteria        peoce criteria: (a)
. DSi0ad vptus of about I                                    cawolidsted govermt
perent of proJected GOPy h t  (tught baed in
.  ina f lires sl(nifnty                                     1991 (b) current accourit
belw Inf(atfn                                                def feftntsrPsn
. IMification and dealtilo                                   perat  Of     n I;te)
of the exehse rate in                                        net d_ tl  assets of the
Octrew ad Dea   199                                          bma*nl ?pten of about es
. lnernal carwertfbility for                                  50 bltion athe end of
curent aecount traenst ons                                   191 agrement on 1992
bhpt ud exteat
financin plan
loom rale of              . Elination  of retail                                       . edction of direct price    .               t, _e to tie
_inrinnt to 0*0000        sbs#idies on food (ly 190)                                  subsidies to agriculture     Sn,  for recing Intercity
_einmc officiey           . Price increes for gastoie                                    Reaction of subsidies on    ad  n  p_aer tropt
and indastrial enry,                                         oatin d meIntm o Ara:int sidtes br t lest
trnp_ts (1990)                                               costs for state-eard         41from *ei 1990 toulme
. Oweramant elidies                                         housing
bulpted to he 5! of 6DP In                                   . Proposal for iqroving
191, a  ered to 121 In                                     financial p          o
1990 asS1e In 1999                                           railwayI
. Elimntion of an gtive                                      .LiUmtatin of now
t11no0e tax on                                         o     mt earntee
toisttS   enedrgy prechICts                              coatnants for louIIS tO
and bul5dngn materials (1991)                                onterprfm  to 1co  biltlon
.Et ntekon of foreia trade                                   In 1992
. loeistin In suesidios to
third in
1991 ad wItheXir
von969-1990 loeWls 
Comprehensive Information
PNfor the pubtle an the
bust. tax         .         leitf cn  mimsr wnd                                           Submislon to Parltient         eotw  oif t e r n  t
efficiey                 dispesion of turnower tax                                     of the new tax laws          syeto, a  preparation of
rates                                                                                     training prop  for tax
. Virtual elimination of                                                                  adinistratora
granting eS-post tax
exaRtors
1f Eipted to take place in late 19plIoarly 1992.
V  Eected to tae plae In oid-1992.



41bt^V----a                       Qctinm air*w tas                 Priw t Board Prawmttian           By SeCod Trud.                  By Third Tiace
Lewaliztion ml                 . As of Ja ,my 1. 1991,  x        . t Redactfin of tarpwary price    . Cmntfmed ltbratltation of    . Prce control limited to
ratiltization of prices          of prices freely set              controls (effective June 1.      prices in accrdao  with        ites listed In action plan
1991)                            agree   on action ptan
Libealiation of foreisn          . Abolition of foreipn trod         Relxtion of export licereon      Preparation of new iqort      . Ieplementation of new
trade                            emuipolies                                                         tarifff scele to rationtize   tariff sdebult
. Etlimnatin of QUs (except                                       effective rates of protection
for a few Itein: cruce oll,                                        . Futher redAtion of export
naturat on, arm)                                                   licees In line with
* Introdction of uniified                                         reduction of teq'awy price
tariff stnture (December                                           control
190)
. setected tariff rdaction
(Decembe 1990)
. Lao  rekiitlon In export
lfcoenat reqArments
(Docabr  19 9)
. Redaction of tent ad
cere  of taporary fqiort
surchade (15 perent by JiNW
5, 1991)



OJbectkwe                     Acttems atlrd  taben                 Prior to Boad Presentati0n       By Secuid Trndue                   By Third Tramue
Privati2ation and             . Removal of aaiSnistrative          Adoption of detalod                 Carr n out of mall              . Rview p       s et the
or  tlon of private        constraints on private sector      reguta tions  satactory to pivt                                          vateiotion program with the
9~~~~~~, )t  m    afsfwtpyrtoativattatio
seetor                        dbvtog en  (199O)                  the Bank  regarding the            . Preparation and wvatuatien dof      kprlelryplwtzto
. *Adpton by Partuient of          Imleaantatlan of large             Large privatitatiation             through vouchers end  ee_
salttprivat zatfon law In          privatizatfon                      proprosals consistent with         with the Sank n coerecte
October 1990                                                          agreed upon criteria               action progru  If needed
Regular auctlons of sall                                               Finalization of the               Preparation of seond r t  of
businesses since Jamnary 1991                                         Investment vucuher bidd1ng         privatization throush
.dabption b  Parliament of                                           process and repuletaon of          lnvestment vochker ethod
Restitution Law  n Februry 21,                                     fina-cial fntermediaries
1991titutton Law on r bruarf 21                                       comected with the voucher
.Adoption by Parlimoent of                                           privatization sebme
large privatization law on
Fetft"L 26, -1991
tion of  ational Property
Break upanoplie   nd          . Adaption of coqepition                                                                                   Reiew of experiele wi th
faster competitfon            Protection Act (Jam y 1991)                                                                              Coqtitfen Protection Act mi
as stbishmet of Federat                                                                                 of results af muitoriuem wrk
Anti-TustAey and of Anti-                                                                                of Anti-Trust Offics wit the
Trust ofices in IGecI and                                                                                Su   and take steps to io mroe
Slerak    lepsie                                                                                     r tuatioms md doctalonremting
* Simplifiain of licensing                                                                           procedrmos  If neede
lreseairmants for businesses                                                                                                              <
Cm earctalhation of           . Et-imi-ton of ex-post tax        . Exposue of state-
state-oumd enterprises        e      %tions                      enteorises to ne prices and
(COEs)                        . Litations on credit              hard budget contraint
juarenteesto SoEs frem the
LiqIdation of nrnrviable                                                                              Suatesioon of the bknkruptcy     . Reviwe of intial experience
erprises                                                                                         law to PartlIment                  with the benkruptcy proceiares
AccesuntinQ mid Auditing      . Introdustion of                                                     . S4osslon to Pariliammnt of                  o Issne  of regulations mid
internationatty acapted                                              new Acoauting and Auditing         dirOetives of th nmew
acoountl n!prncX;s for small                                          Laws                               Acoautingid Auditing Lows



FIUCIAL SCTR  E
Jo  tiw                            Action S     * tnn                Prrw to lowd Preswtetiwn           By Secd Troehe                   Or Third Trade
Stn     Jrtbeni   of eisting      . Estabidhent of wtiwr                                               .   miesston to Pfrient of    * Adoptfon of gswni'W
bu*ng syste  an den lepient    banking system in earty 1990                                            new barkng legfslation           principles to address
of soaif inanciat                 . C1ear datiaetlon of                                                . Issuins prudentlal rules,      fnadqmcies In the
fntermdiwies                      monetary w   fifscal poticies                                        coA tine bank supervisimn        structure of the barilnI
between the State Sank and the                                       ad strentbenIng snctions        system, potential losses in
Rinistries of Fnance                                                 for violating rules             bank portfotios and
. Opming of banking syste2                                           . Preparotion of strategic      privathatian of banks
to forlegn banks throush Joint                                       f inanelat udits and portfolio
ventures and sthsldfaries                                            review  of moajr banks
. Introduetfon of new                                                . Implementation of an
accosoting snd reportfng                                             autented peyemnts clearing
system in Jbuary 1991                                                system
. Development of medium-term
training program
co
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Ibjectiwee   cs kctt    slre    t*o       Prlc  to Be3rd Prestation         By rd  Tranthe                                       eV Tbird Tie
lncres        . Increae of aergy prlces  . Etlimination of fuetl .o           Preation of lteast-cot liwesti  program ad         . Sidmission to Pstll_t Of
eaom          toward mret levets, ad    sabsidies to houseolds              lto-run mrginat cost (iJN) stud  for electrieity    Pubtic Utitities Law
efficiency    egreemnt an the principles  . Significant recwtion of         . increase of hbuehold electricity rates by 70 percent
of eergy pricire (1990)    asEhidies en solid fuel, gps,     in naminal ter=n; rates for irdstry will be at least
end heating resulting In prices   eqat to the respective tUE as estaised by the
eqilvatent to abt 50 percent      8t1uP
of estimated long-no marginat     . Adoption of action prog   for 199I-93 speting out
cost                              future price increases to  e  actuat prfees for
different categrles of cemLnrs towds the
respctive LUC leewt
Esw'ire,ntal  . Issunc- of envirwfartalt                                      sudIssion to Parifamt of new Envirntat Lao          Estebtishint of            s
protetin      policy statement                                              datermning the retative respmuibilities for         enviramtal assessment
protecting the enwirouent, the tevel ad stut   of  procedre, consistent with
envwiroentat standrds ad financing  ethods for      intermtionat practice,  id
emwirerentat protection                             their appication to atl now
. Preparaton of a mediuterm emirarmntal action      p.6ic and private investments
pregrm that will: (a) spet out adsslon standards ad
a syten of fees, f ies. prices ad tans tAich aft
based an the pottuter Paw  principle ad that teflect
th social ests of poltuting; lb) establish pilot
projecto for identifying decentratized _mnsg t of
air ad water qimtity at the reonat tevet ad (c)
deelop mes  for geater pubtic perticipaton In
envirasuentat deeisia ing, lncluding acess to
informtion



U    N_T  A  S:IAL E-
gbJ"est         Aetfmalready t_M            Prier to Ord presentation           By Seaed Troche                                         By Third Trahe
Establsh         Agreem.t betmeen tamns   . Agreement by Cowermt to the    .            .: (a) the constraints on pbtle enterprise totat . Passing of legislatton
srcial saty  and overwit an                 abolition of full indexation of     wg bitts should remin tbody unchanged from present institutingo a ia_
et ad          restrictive NW   pltfcy      the minia wag such that             arranmts through 1992, (b) tiberalizatifn of wapg   fufl
flexible labor . Intrediction of            drerig 1991 the minitaa  age        determinatin:  in ite private ector, wgs to be          . Sstem of sucad  ist
markets       uiesptoyent bone its          rises by tess than the              subject to no state interventfn other than the minima to be fulty functirn1ng
system                       federatin-wide average  ae          wge; In all other enterpriss, was to be s"Jett to   . Policies to lme
. Agreement bv 60ermint             no state Intervention other than the minima wa ed    ncentIves for efficiency in
rapidly to expad the system of      regulation of total enterprise we  bills;              the  e  saint so=
sociat assistance by making         - NaaM    12  re Wacot tarema thruh th  tunderttakin a mJority
adequate budsetarvy provision to    wadertaking a majority of the following mesres: (a)   of the following casmures: (a)
meet the start-Lp costs of the      implementation of unfform maxiu  unemployment benefIt  estabi Ishment of a new system
espanded system (e.g.               related to the average wage; (b) restriction of        of altocation of pubtic fmnd
accmodation. equipaent,             eligibility for uneploWmnt benefits to urdividuals    to higher dumatin and to
persrinel)                          do have been dismised   from employment,  ith the       scfintific research based on
Agreement by GSorraent to         possible exception of school-leavwrs; (c) finreased     performanee-related,
measures to ensue adequate         fdifference between iumepoMent benefit and benefit       transparent, end publfc
targeting of cach benefits by:      recewved by fndivifduls usdergoing training; Cd)       criteria uiich draw the two
Ca) ensuing a single,               implementation of legislation ipoesing on enterprises   sibsectors Into closer
federation-wide frauwork for        the cast of the first four wees of sick pay; Ce)       colltaboetion; (b)
-nemp     tAont benefit t(b)       passing of tegistation lntro ncins a striogent earntrgs introduction of mechanism for
limiting the unerpto_mnt            test on the receipt of pension for the first five years fncreased (but still partiat)
benefit payable to any              of retirement, for Individuals e o contimie In wage     recosver of costs from
indivi ul to a uniform maxiua        ptloaymt; (f) contimatlon of policy not to index      beneffciarfes of higher
related to the average wage; Ce)    fac ty altuances; (a) c tetion of the draftifg of    educatfen and health services;
providing adesmte and timely        the necessnry regulations for the implewentation of     (c) estabtaih  ent of a
Indexation of pensions during       sociat assistance; (h) a   _n uoemet by Gvrnent to    framework for pgbnic ard       0
1991 and 1992: by raising the       replace Senerat Incoe esm port by Juuary t 1993 at    private sector financing and
minims pensein levet In tine        the latest by such targeted beneiIts as sedct          service prowision In bigher
with chanees In the price level    assistance                                              educatlen and heatth
end pensions akowe the minima       - Administrative infra--tructure: to be strengthened    (including the  aesfin of a
at mst In tine with changes In      for the delivery of unemptent benefits and training  nationat (CSFR) helth
average earnirns; and by making     based on a  - Ner of indiceators                        Insura       syptm); ad (d)
ppropifate budgetary                . Cre soial Betors: (a) preration of legslaton   abolitfin of relptations
adjuatments if current fnanclet    to mplement a new training finance polc   uer  ich  gning the use of pblMi
provisions for pensions prove       enterprises share the costs of ocsation.speeifli job  funds In the heatth Id higher
Inadequte; (d) imptmeaetation       training; (b) comptetion ad disusson   th        ak   edcton and wscientific
of stringent cunitoring             of a study of options for reform of secondary education research oectors, uhih
procedures determining             sad pro-eoptoyment vocational training                  currently restrict muagerala
etigibilisy to sick paY; Cd)                                                               freedom to use resources
adherfng to the current policy                                                             off Icientty
of not indexing family
oll4ownces; aid (f) reducing
generat income upport pawUents
In 1991 hs may be reepdred to
fitl gaps In other cash benefit
programs



I



A SD III
QUANTITATIV INDrCATORS AND MIDC&TIVE NININN TARGETS



* 81 -                           rnezJIII
Ouantitativ IndicatMrs and Indigative minimum Targeta
1991       1992       1993      1994
Real growth of GDP, annual       -10 a/      -5           2         4
Real growth of merchandise
exports, quarterly b/          -30          2            3         e
Ratio of privately c/
produced gross value
added to GDP, current
prices, annual                  10          20          40        60
Ratio of gross fixed capital
formation (GFCF) carried
out by private c/ firms to
GDP, current prices, annual      2           5          10        13
Ratio of credit to private
firms c/ to total credit
extended by the banking
system, stocks end of
period, quarterly b/             3          10          25        50
Employment in private
firms c/ in thousands              No targets, only reporting
quarterly data
Ratio of budgetary
subsidies d/ to GDP            6.7   about 5            <5         3
a/    1991 will be based on N4P.
b/    Targets are on annual/year-end basis; data will be reported quarterly.
c/    Includes all private non-financial enterprises (including cooperatives),
financial institutions, and insurance companies, including in all cases
foreign-controlled firms, and domestic services.
d/    Includes all investment and non-investment subsidies and interest
subsidies extended from the consolidated general government budget.



AM= IV
SUP    r     PRTY   DTTA SUT



* 82 -                        AJ      IV
Page I of 3
CZEC  ANDSLOAX FDERLOANULI
SUPPLMTAYPRORMDASEE
Se5tiSM 1:        Timetale of geyents
(a)   Time taken to prepare the project:        about 6 months
(b)   Responsiblity for program preparation:   Federal MinLitry of Finance,
State Bank, Ministry of
Economy, Xinstry of Labor and
Social Affairs
(c)   Project first Ldentified by Bank:         August 1990
(d)   Bank appraisal mission:                   April 1991
(e)  Negotiations:                              may 1991
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:            July 1991
2ctlon Ir:      2Sneclal Bank Iolementfai=on Actions
None
egction III:      AUO        9 J IM U   o
(a)  Atigon  Already Take
A number of important policy measures were implemented in the
context of the SAL-supported program prior to Board presentation. These
include the enactment of laws for small and large privatization and
adoption of detailed realatLons nd acedures for imolemnting Inn
R1rhmahtfEatLn in order to speed up the privatization process and to make
it as transparent and fair as possible; adoption of the foiwetgtLo=
Tro=tL= Act and establishment of Federal and Republic Antl-Trust
Agencies in order to stimulate competitive behavior already during the
transition to a market economy; reduction of the number of items subject
to exgort licensLng, and temnoxS=y =ice controls; reduction of level
and coverage of eMnoa  192=   MAU92urch   ; elidnation of fuel oIl
isubLdies to households and of subsidies on solid fuel. gas and hatinbg
resulting in substantial budgetary savings and movement of prices toward
long-run marginal costs. The Government has also introduced an
unemployment benefit system and an active labor market policy for the
transition period and beyond. It has also conmitted itself to AeboLih
fl in      to of mimum  MM, to expeand the oytm of s.ial
ulatanna. and to tarst "adeqatelcSh benefits.



-83- .I=   IV
Page 2 of 3
(b)   condito   of Release of SUSS121  millons (exWcte
December 199161aua  19921
Satisfaction with the general progress of the transformation
program, assessed on the basis of the policy matrix agreed and
quantitative indicators for 1991/1992.
Snecifie Actions
(1)  Continued maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework as
determined on the basis of specific indicators; adoption of a 1992
budget and financing plan, consistent with this framework.
(il) Price and Trade Liberalization
- Reduction and phasing out of temporary price controls in
accordance with an agreed upon action plan, review and pbasing
out of export license requirements in line with repealing of
temporary domestic price controls, and preparation of revised
tariff schedule to be implemented in early 1992.
(lii) Privatization and Enterprise Reform
- Preparation of a privatization program, satisfactory to the Bank,
consisting of identification and preparation for privatization of
selected state-owned enterprises.
(iv) Financial Sector
- Submission to Parliament of new banking legislation regulating
the licencing of new banks, issuing prudential rules, and the
development of supervision and enforcement capabilities, all
acceptable to the Bank.
(v)   Energy
- Preiaration of a least-cost investment program, satisfactory to
the Bank, and increase of electricity prices for households by 70
percent.
(vi)  Labor Karket and Social Sectors
- State control of gross wage formation limited to the minimu wage
in the private sector, and the minimum wage and regulation of
total eaterprise wage bills in state-owned enterprises.
- Implementation of measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure
adequate targeting and delivery of benefits.



- 84 -AnnL
Page 3 of 3
(c)         p= of Releass of Third TMnch  (USS125 million) (expeted Mid-
Overall Performnce
Satisfaction with the general progress of the transformation
program, assessed on the basis of policy matrix agreed and quantitative
indicators for 1991/92.
aecLac  ctiLs
(i)   Continued maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework as
determined on the basis of specific indicators.
(ii) Privatization and Enterprise Reform
- Continued carrying out of the privatization program, evaluation
of progress under the program and adoption of corrective measu-
res, if needed.
(MOi) Financial Sectors
- Introduction of governing principles to address inadequacies in
the structure of the banking system.
(iv) Energy
- Submission to Parliament of Public Utilities Law.
(vi) Labor Market and Social Sectors
- Enactment of legislation instituting a social insurance fund, and
implementation of social assistance. Carrying out of a program,
satisfactory to the Bank, to improve efficieny in the higher
education, research and development, and health sectors.



ANNEX V
STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS IN
THE CZECH AND SLOVAK FEDERAL REPUBLIC



- 85 -                  Annex-V
STTUS OF BANKM  ROUP OPEHATIONS IN THE CECH AND SLOVAK FEDERAL REPUBLU
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOAS
(As of March 31, 1991)
Bank lending to Czechoslovakia has not yet commenced.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1991)
IFC investment activities in Czechoslovakia have not yet commenced.



IBRD 22910
CZECHOSLOVAKIA
0   MAJOR TOWNS AND VILAGES                     REGION BOUNDARIES
*   REGION CAPITALS                      ___REPJUSc BOUNDARY
r&    _g   Lt/t)  )~~~~~~~T rwr3                                NATIONAL CAPITAL                      __INTERNATIONALB8OUNDARIES
0~~~~~~~~~~5
_    -      I        -                                                             HUNGAIY
,Gt .           <92                                               >,                           ~~~~~~~~~~~POLAND                           t
f&o p0,(oiTh        AUSTRIA,&                                                                           .K            *''. AU$TI.
)                                                       C                r          a '                                        .\  ,             j,_ t->_.,.T.VII"
-48-~                                  AUit^oobSTRIA    ltn                                                                                   4RI       HR 
nhsnd X wTt    ft   .W1 *e d.e -ixad fb.                            T. iedcs,
*f$  .dMr>oirlltd-                                                      HUNGARY                                 A-U   ' 
14                               1f4-                              I,a-                             I0-TALeY   C<                YUGO   \ a
MAAY I "I



