Page  1
Document of
 
The World Bank 
 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
 
Report No: 56145-AFR 
 
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT 
 
ON A 
 
PROPOSED NILE BASIN TRUST FUND GRANT 
 
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6.50 MILLION 
TO THE 
 
EASTERN NILE TECHNICAL REGIONAL OFFICE (ENTRO) 
 
FOR A 
 
EASTERN NILE PLANNING MODEL PROJECT 
 
July 31, 2009 
 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the 
performance of their official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World 
Bank authorization. 
Page  2
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 
 
(Exchange Rate Effective {
Date
})
Currency Unit
=
=
US$1 
US$
=
1
FISCAL YEAR 
July 1
–
June 30 
 
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS 
CAS 
Country Assistance Strategy 
EN Eastern 
Nile 
ENPM 
Eastern Nile Planning Model 
ENSAP 
Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program 
ENTRO 
Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office 
ENSAPT 
Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program Team 
ENCOM 
Eastern Nile Council of Ministers 
FPEW 
Flood Preparedness and Early Warning 
JMP 
Joint Multi-purpose Program 
MOIWR 
Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources (Sudan) 
MOWR 
Ministry of Water Resources (Ethiopia) 
MWRI 
Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation (Egypt) 
NBI 
Nile Basin Initiative 
NBTF 
Nile Basin Trust Fund 
NFPIs 
National Focal Point Institutions 
NIs National 
Institutions 
RWG Regional 
Working 
Group 
 
Vice President:
Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili (AFR); Daniela 
Gressani (MENA) 
Country Director:
Richard Scobey (Regional); Kenichi Ohashi 
(Ethiopia, Sudan); Emmanuel Mbi (Egypt) 
Sector Director:
Sector Manager:
Inger Andersen (AFTSD) 
Ashok K. Subramanian (AFTWR)
 
Task Team Leader:
Nagaraja Rao Harshadeep 
Page  3
EASTERN AFRICA 
Eastern Nile Planning Model 
 
CONTENTS 
 
Page 
I.
 
STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE..................................................................1
 
A.
 
Country and sector issues....................................................................................................1
 
B.
 
Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................2
 
C.
 
Higher level objectives to which the project contributes....................................................2
 
II.
 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION .................................................................................................3
 
A.
 
Lending instrument .............................................................................................................3
 
B.
 
Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................3
 
C.
 
Project components.............................................................................................................3
 
D.
 
Lessons learned and reflected in the project design............................................................4
 
E.
 
Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection...............................................................5
 
III.
 
IMPLEMENTATION.......................................................................................................6
 
A.
 
Partnership arrangements (if applicable).............................................................................6
 
B.
 
Institutional and implementation arrangements..................................................................6
 
C.
 
Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results..................................................................7
 
D.
 
Sustainability.......................................................................................................................7
 
E.
 
Critical risks and possible controversial aspects.................................................................8
 
F.
 
Loan/credit conditions and covenants.................................................................................9
 
IV.
 
APPRAISAL SUMMARY................................................................................................9
 
A.
 
Economic and financial analyses ........................................................................................9
 
B.
 
Technical...........................................................................................................................10
 
C.
 
Fiduciary............................................................................................................................10
 
D.
 
Social.................................................................................................................................11
 
E.
 
Environment......................................................................................................................11
 
F.
 
Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................12
 
G.
 
Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................12
 
Page  4
Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background .........................................................13
 
Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies .................18
 
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring.........................................................................19
 
Annex 4: Detailed Project Description......................................................................................24
 
Annex 5: Project Costs................................................................................................................38
 
Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements .................................................................................40
 
Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements.....................................42
 
Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements ......................................................................................49
 
Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis..............................................................................55
 
Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues............................................................................................56
 
Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision......................................................................58
 
Annex 12: Documents in the Project File..................................................................................59
 
Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits..............................................................................60
 
Annex 14: Country at a Glance..................................................................................................67
 
Annex 15: Maps...........................................................................................................................70
 
Page  5
1
I. 
STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE 
A.  Country and sector issues 
1. 
Water has played a central role in the history and political economy of the Eastern Nile region 
and has shaped its socio-economic and environmental dimensions.  The Eastern Nile consists of five 
major sub-basin groups as indicated in the Map.  This includes the Baro-Akobo-Sobat that originates 
in Ethiopia and joins the southern Nile to form the White Nile in Sudan, continuing north to 
Khartoum to meet the Blue Nile (which contributes most of the sediment-laden water of the Eastern 
Nile).  The Main Nile then continues northwards, collecting the Tekeze-Atbara-Setit that originates in 
Ethiopia, and flows into Egypt where the Aswan dam regulates its flow.  These rivers form an 
important shared resource linking these countries.  However, tensions over these resources continue 
today and have been a major constraint to economic growth and opportunities for trade and regional 
integration. 
2. 
The Eastern Nile region is home to some of the poorest people in the world.  Maximizing the 
productive uses of water and reducing the risks associated with water-related impacts and shocks are 
prerequisites for sustained socio-economic growth and development.  Rainfall and river flows are 
highly variable while the infrastructure and institutions (both national and regional) to manage water 
are limited.  This results in a region characterized by swings from severe droughts to intense flooding, 
which, along with massive erosion, have major economic, social and environmental impacts.  The 
productive role of water is also currently limited in the region, with generally unreliable and 
inadequate access to water and energy services (e.g. access to electricity is less than 15% in Ethiopia 
and Sudan, only a small percentage of the irrigation and hydropower potential has been developed 
thus far, and crop intensity, yields, and water productivity in rainfed and irrigated systems are 
generally poor with a few exceptions).  River system losses (from evaporation and seepage) are also 
high representing 35-40% of total available water.  Lastly, deforestation and land degradation are 
serious, contributing to low soil productivity, poor agricultural production, and increased downstream 
sedimentation.  Substantial investments are required to improve this situation and improve the 
productive role of a cooperatively managed Nile system. 
3. 
In the absence of mechanisms to cooperatively develop and manage the Eastern Nile, countries 
will continue on unilateral development plans.  This has critical implications for meeting existing 
demands and facing a future with growing energy and food demands and potential climate change.  
The potential benefits from regional cooperation and integrated and joint basin management are 
significant.  A vision of the Eastern Nile is characterized by multi-country coordinated and collective 
investments in irrigation and agriculture, environmental services, institutions and human capital, and 
the development of important water and energy infrastructure.  Lastly, cooperation will not only 
improve international relations, but enable the joint management of risk of water-related impacts (in 
particular floods, droughts and climate change) and the joint development of productive opportunities 
(in particular optimization of power and irrigation development).     
4. 
An essential element for such cooperation is the development of a shared knowledge base and 
appropriate analytical tools, used effectively to support decision making among multiple stakeholders.  
Currently, the knowledge base is fragmented and inconsistent, sharing of information is minimal, and 
there is a lack of shared, modern, flexible analytical tools to envision various development scenarios 
and analyze their implications from economic, environmental and social viewpoints.  There are no 
strong stakeholder forums to use this information and analysis to systematically inform investment 
decisions on the Eastern Nile.  This status quo is a major impediment to building consensus on 
cooperative investments in the basin and deciding where further studies are required. 
Page  6
2
5.  Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan have made significant strides in strengthening Eastern Nile 
cooperation since the launch of the Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program (ENSAP)
1
in 1999, 
within the framework of the Nile Basin Initiative (NBI).  In launching ENSAP, the Eastern Nile 
Council of Ministers (ENCOM) agreed to ensure efficient water management and optimal use of 
resources, target poverty alleviation, and promote economic integration through cooperative 
investments.  The first joint institution of the three countries 
–
the Eastern Nile Regional Technical 
Office (ENTRO) – was established in 2002 to oversee the preparation of the EN investment program.   
Considerable progress is now being made in the preparation of a series of ‘fast track’ projects – 
largely sectorally-focused, nationally implemented projects agreed in a regional context – to 
demonstrate the tangible benefits of cooperation.  One of the “fast-track” projects identified as part of 
the original ENSAP investment portfolio to be critical to such cooperation is this Eastern Nile 
Planning Model (ENPM) Project.  The ENPM has been prepared within the context of the Joint 
Multipurpose Program or JMP (the process for which is being led by the Bank at the request of the 
Eastern Nile Council of Ministers) to provide the analytical underpinnings to support investment 
planning on the Eastern Nile.  The countries have already initiated some cooperative knowledge 
activities (e.g. a shared “One-System Inventory” of water, environment and socio-economic aspects 
of the Eastern Nile) that would be enhanced by the ENPM. 
6. 
Overall, the ENPM is intended to provide a knowledge platform for cooperation discussions on 
the Eastern Nile, make the best use of the available information, and be adaptable for future needs.   
 
B.  Rationale for Bank involvement 
 
7. 
Since 1998, the World Bank has been intensively engaged with the ten countries of the Nile Basin 
under the NBI to promote cooperative development and management of the Nile.  The aim has been 
to convert an underdeveloped resource that has often been a source of conflict to one that is a catalyst 
for regional growth, cooperation, integration and poverty alleviation.   
8.  The proposed project will be a critical input to the objectives of the NBI and the work of the 
World Bank.  This activity would also help support the objectives of the CAS/interim 
Strategies/Country Water Resources Assistance Strategies of the EN countries and provide a 
framework to analyze and prepare future cooperative investments (e.g. hydropower, irrigation, 
storage, watershed management, etc.) in the Eastern Nile, including work on the propose set of 
coordinated investments considered in a cooperative regional framework under a Joint Multipurpose 
Program (JMP).  It will also help the Bank to tap its expertise in international river basins and in such 
knowledge-driven decision-support processes to assist the EN countries in realizing a higher level of 
cooperation.  Experience in other international river basins has also indicated the need to strengthen 
the collation, organization, analysis, dissemination, and use of basin information to build a shared 
awareness of key evolving issues in the Basin, and to better inform future cooperative investments. 
 
C.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes 
 
9.  The project is intended to strengthen the knowledge, modeling, and stakeholder interaction 
capacity of regional and national institutions to plan for water resources investments in a regional 
context, with appropriate regard to economic, environmental and social aspects.  The project would 
be an essential building block to stimulate cooperative investments in the region.  Not only is this 
project the result of cooperation, but it can help further cement this cooperation through regional 
1
ENSAP currently includes Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan.  Eritrea currently participates in ENSAP and the NBI as an 
observer, but is expected to formally join eventually. 
Page  7
3
projects and the consideration of national projects in a regional context.  This is essential to ensure 
that scarce financial resources are used effectively and that the region can take advantage of 
transformational opportunities that Nile cooperation provides.  This work on the Eastern Nile will 
also feed into the larger Nile context, in terms of synergizing with the basin-wide Nile Decision 
Support System 
(DSS) being developed under the NBI’s Shared Vision Program (SVP).  The 
development of such tools and stakeholder participation approaches could also help improve 
cooperation and coordination across Eastern Nile Institutions (within and across countries) in making 
more informed and consultative decisions on planning investments and managing the shared resource 
base.   
II. 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
 
A. Lending instrument 
 
10. The project is financed through a grant of US$6.50 million from the multi-donor Nile Basin Trust 
Fund (NBTF) administered by the World Bank.   
B.  Project development objective and key indicators 
 
11. The development objective of the ENPM Project is that 
countries in the Eastern Nile 
operationalize an improved decision support modeling framework to identify water-related 
investments and evaluate them in a regional context.
 
12. Key performance indicators for the ENPM project will include: 
·
Development of a shared interactive Eastern Nile Knowledge Base and dissemination of a 
State 
of the Eastern Nile
 Report 
·
Development of modeling tools to systematically evaluate Eastern Nile investments in a 
regional context, examining economic, environmental, and social aspects as allowed by 
available data 
·
Strong institutions at Regional and National levels (in Egypt, Ethiopia, and Sudan) with 
adequate capacity and partners (e.g. University Outreach Centers) to be a focal point for 
knowledge and analysis on water investments on the Eastern Nile 
·
Collaboration with the Nile DSS 
 
C. Project components 
 
13. The ENPM Project contains three components:  
 
(i) 
Knowledge Base Development:
 The Knowledge base developed will provide a shared, 
synoptic view of the Eastern Nile basins, including its opportunities and risks as viewed from an 
economic, environmental and social perspective.  Baseline data would be organized 
systematically in a GIS platform with an associated web portal. Effective use will be made of 
modern datasets from satellite remote sensing and other global/regional datasets. 
 
(ii) 
Modeling System: 
The ENPM modeling system will include a suite of simulation, 
optimization and multi-criteria analytical tools.  The models will build on a water systems “spine” 
using tools developed by the Nile Basin DSS to help analyze the economic, environmental and 
social aspects of proposed investments in a water resources systems framework and to evaluate 
alternative scenarios of the future.  The tools developed will draw upon and contribute to the 
Knowledge Base developed and will be flexible to adapt to changing needs and increasing 
information availability.  
 
Page  8
4
(iii) 
Institutional and Human Capacity Building:
 
The ENPM will support a structured 
stakeholder process to ensure that the systems developed are driven by multi-sectoral stakeholder 
demand and appropriate to support decision-making.  It is expected that the proposed ENPM 
(developed in collaboration with the Nile DSS) and associated training would strengthen ENTRO 
as a strong knowledge-driven regional institution, as well as improve the capacity of national 
institutions, reducing the current disparity in national capacity for such activities.  Networking 
with academia and other international river basins will also be pursued to improve cross-
fertilization of ideas and sustainability. 
 
14. The three components above would be phased to ensure adequate stakeholder input into the 
design of the knowledge base and models as well as to ensure that these, in turn, help support 
investment decisions (on water infrastructure such as storage, hydropower, irrigation, etc. as well as 
catchment management and environmental protection).  The project would be implemented by 
ENTRO, which would have a Regional ENPM office, supported by National ENPM offices and 
University partners.  The project would be supported technically by a competitively-recruited 
international ENPM Consultant. 
15. The work will build upon the Eastern Nile One System Inventory and collaboration with other 
NBI activities, including the Eastern Nile Joint Multipurpose Project (Preparation Phase), Shared 
Vision Planning activities, and Nile Institutional Strengthening Project.  In particular, the project will 
work closely with the Nile Basin Decision Support System being developed under the NBI’s Water 
Resources Management and Planning Shared Vision Program for the ten Nile riparians.  The data 
sharing protocols and data architecture, GIS/Remote Sensing data, and basic “water spine” modeling 
developed under the Nile DSS will be used for the ENPM, which will focus on application of the 
models developed for Eastern Nile investment and resource planning.  In addition, offices will be co-
located in the overlapping countries to promote synergy. 
 
D.  Lessons learned and reflected in the project design 
 
16. Some of the lessons learned from past and ongoing activities on the Nile and activities in other 
major international river basins that have been mainstreamed into the design of this project include: 
·
Good information and analysis is essential for good investment planning.  
The knowledge base 
and analytical capacity is often a critical impediment to identification and holistic planning of 
major water investments.  There is often a need to better examine investment impacts in the rest 
of the basin, consider alternatives and evaluate them from various perspectives (including 
economic, environmental, and social) and support better-informed decision-making processes.  
This is why the ENPM begins with a data-centered approach, collating the available knowledge 
base, and developing tools to examine investments in a holistic systems context to the extent that 
the available data support.  Awareness raising mechanisms, including improvement in the 
information available in the public domain, will also be supported by the ENPM.  International 
experience has also shown that it is important to consider upfront key environmental, social, and 
economic considerations in water resources investment decision making. 
·
There is a need to demonstrate country commitment to sharing information. 
 Often, excellent 
modeling tools are wasted due to poor information sharing.  The ENPM has been initiated with an 
Eastern Nile One-System Inventory that has demonstrated that EN countries can collaborate to 
share information on water, environment and socio-economic aspects and their masterplans that 
would have once been difficult to envision.  This is in line with lessons from other international 
basins such as the Mekong, where data sharing was the first step to analytical work and riparian 
cooperation. 
Page  9
5
·
Analytical tools need to be usable and developed collaboratively.
 
The ENPM is designed to have 
simple, interactive interfaces to modern, state-of-the-art tools to ensure that it is used widely and 
does not require the constant presence of its development team for its effective use.  Past 
experience on software development on the Nile indicates that it is critical that all riparians have 
full confidence in the analytical tools being developed by being part of its development.  The 
ENPM has built-in an elaborate participation framework (e.g. with regional and national working 
groups and university partnerships) for the countries during the preparation, development, and use 
of the ENPM.  Given experiences of cases like the Mekong where actual decisions based on the 
modeling lag far behind model development, it is important that stakeholder frameworks involve 
all critical decision makers and that the use of the ENPM is demonstrated early to build 
credibility and a culture of using such tools in decision making. 
·
Effective project management is key to ensuring that a useful product is developed. 
 The ENPM 
project, suitably housed in ENTRO, has recruited an experienced project coordinator, and has 
strengthened financial management and procurement capacity to be able to effectively implement 
this project.  Key procurement documents have been prepared and key activities are underway.  
An international panel of experts is proposed for quality management during implementation. 
 
E.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection 
 
17. The key alternatives considered for developing such a system for the Eastern Nile include: 
No-Project Option:  
Given the current lack of an adequate shared knowledge base, analytical tools, 
and stakeholder processes to help examine the regional environmental, social, and economic 
implications of water investments on the Eastern Nile, there is considerable risk of unilateral 
actions and discord among the riparians.  However, the ENCOM has realized the need to move 
beyond the 
status quo
 to develop and use the ENPM as an instrument of cooperation and as a key 
approach to strengthen the capacity of ENTRO, and hence this option has been rejected.  An 
associated alternative was to not have this as a separate project, but merge it with the Eastern Nile 
JMP1 Identification Project also being concurrently prepared.  However, this option was discarded 
as the JMP1 Identification Project is a two-year project that is part of a journey primarily to 
identify, and subsequently prepare, a first regional anchor project in the Blue Nile basin and 
associated ancillary investments.  In contrast, the ENPM was focused on developing a shared 
knowledge base and analytical tools that could be used more generally for water-related investment 
planning and resource planning at regional and national levels in the entire Eastern Nile region.  
However, it is expected that bo
th these projects would help build ENTRO’s analytical capacity in 
the water sector and work synergistically. 
 
Development of Complex Tools:
 
Any one part of the Eastern Nile System could involve modeling 
over several years in a continuing quest to “get it just right”.  However, there is a sense of urgency 
to at least initiate the process of systematic shared information collation and analysis to support 
decisions that are being made on a continual basis.  The tools should also reflect the reality of the 
existing knowledge base and institutional capacity.  Hence, there is a need to balance simplicity 
and comprehensiveness.  To effectively support investment decision-making, it is crucial that the 
ENPM design is simple enough to be implementable in the proposed timeframe and institutional 
capacity, as well as comprehensive enough to reflect the basic economic, environmental and social 
considerations around a good water systems “spine”.  This balance required is expected to evolve 
during development, based on the information that starts becoming available, the structured 
stakeholder group discussions, the tools developed, and with the growing capacity of ENTRO, the 
EN Countries and Consultant input.  The time and financial resources reflect the urgency of the 
riparian needs for such a system to support investment decisions and further consolidate 
Page  10
6
cooperation, as well as the financing needs for developing an adequate system in this timeframe.  
The ENPM has taken a conscious decision to build on ongoing efforts such as the Nile Basin 
Decision Support System that is expected to provide the basic modeling tools for applications and 
extensions envisaged in the ENPM. 
 
Focus on Regional or National perspectives:
 
An issue that was discussed in detail during 
preparation meetings was whether such a system would help support regional or national 
investment decision-making.  The emerging consensus is to have the ENPM initially support 
cooperative regional projects as well as national projects considered in a regional systems context.  
The primary versioning of the tools is to be maintained by ENTRO, but the countries would be free 
to use the information base, tools, and stakeholder frameworks to help further explore their 
national investments. 
 
III. 
IMPLEMENTATION 
A.  Partnership arrangements (if applicable) 
 
18. The project is a result of a partnership in NBI and among the EN countries.  The multi-donor Nile 
Basin Trust Fund (NBTF) has committed to financing this project.  The project also seeks to promote 
partnerships with academia and other partners during implementation. 
B.  Institutional and implementation arrangements 
 
19. The project will be implemented by the Eastern Nile Regional Technical Office (ENTRO). 
ENTRO, acting on behalf of the three Eastern Nile countries, under the general auspices of the NBI, 
will enter into a project Grant Agreement with the World Bank for NBTF grant financing.  ENTRO 
will be responsible for the coordination of all activities, procurement of equipment and consultants, 
and management of funds.  ENTRO will have final responsibility for the quality of outputs and will 
work in close cooperation with both the Bank team in supervising the activities and with the already 
identified National Planning Model Coordinators in the MoIWR (Sudan), MoWR (Ethiopia) and 
MWRI (Egypt).  The ownership of the data and tools (and versioning of the software) developed 
under the ENPM effort lies with ENTRO but the countries will be able to use the tools to help 
decision making for water projects within each of the countries. 
20. The Regional Coordination Unit is established and equipped with basic facilities (basic IT 
equipment, office facilities, internet connection, etc). The unit, headed by the Regional ENPM 
Coordinator, will have the support of full-time staff (long term consultants in the form of a Regional 
Planning Model Specialist, a Water Resources Planning and Management Specialist, and Information 
Management-GIS&Database Specialists), who will be competitively hired from the EN region, 
supported by short-term specialists (e.g. on economic, environmental, social aspects) and interns. 
Functions such as finance, procurement, and administration; formal external communication; 
protocols; and donor liaison; will be undertaken within the existing ENTRO organization according to 
existing modes of operation.  The project would support ENTRO costs (including administrative, 
office space, procurement/financial management support, logistical, communication, and other office 
expenses) related to the project.  The Eastern Nile Council of Ministers (ENCOM) and the Eastern 
Nile Subsidiary Action Program Team (ENSAPT) will provide overall guidance for the ENPM 
Project.  The governance of the project would also include ENTRO management oversight, an ENPM 
Synergy group (to improve coordination with the Nile DSS and other NBI and ENTRO activities), an 
ENPM Regional Working Group (to provide regional oversight and inputs), and a technical Panel of 
Experts (to provide international technical advice to improve the quality of ENPM activities).  The 
World Bank ENPM project team will also undertake regular supervision of the project activities and 
facilitate synergy with other activities. 
Page  11
7
21. Activities at national level would be supported by the National Focal Point Institutions (NFPIs) in 
the respective Ministries of Water Affairs and will be headed by the National Planning Model 
Coordinator (which is part of the overall ENSAP arrangement) to facilitate interaction with other 
national institutions.  A National ENPM office will be set up (co-located with the Nile DSS and other 
activities where possible) staffed with key modeling and information management professionals and 
interns financed by the project to implement the project at the national level.  The ENPM 
development would be facilitated by an ENPM consulting firm who would provide support to the 
regional and national offices.  Regional and national groups would help implementation and 
stakeholder interaction to guide and use the ENPM.  The data sharing/logistics commitment from 
each country would be ensured through a letter of commitment from each country (also see Annex 6). 
 
C.  Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results 
 
22. Overall monitoring and coordination of project activities will be undertaken by ENTRO.  
Following the NBI-
Secretariat’s introduction of result based planning for the NBI, ENTRO has 
initiated the introduction of this system in the preparation of its work plans and reports. In order to 
spearhead M&E activities, ENTRO has engaged an M&E Officer to support M&E activities for all 
ENSAP/ENTRO projects including the ENPM.  ENTRO will consider further strengthening its 
monitoring and evaluation operations depending on how future projects unfold. The monitoring and 
evaluation framework for the ENPM project as included in Annex 3 will be the basis on which the 
M&E framework will be developed by this M&E officer. In addition, the Bank will carry out the 
normal review procedures for procurement and conduct regular supervision missions. Supervision 
will also include the review of the quarterly Interim Un-audited Financial Reports quarterly reports 
provided by ENTRO, independent annual financial audits of the project and financial statements of 
ENTRO.  The Bank will also carry out a mid-term review and ICR mission. 
 
D. Sustainability 
 
23. Key factors influencing the sustainability of project activities and project design responses have 
been examined from various viewpoints as outlined below: 
 
·
Technical Sustainability
of the ENPM will depend on the appropriateness of the knowledge base 
and modeling tools developed.  This has been supported so far by an international ENPM 
preparation Consultant, an international workshop to learn from other similar international 
experiences, interactions with regional and national groups, and technical leadership at ENTRO 
supported by close interaction with Bank staff.  During implementation, an international 
consultant with extensive relevant experience is to be recruited to support the development of the 
tools.  An international panel of experts will be recruited to provide regular independent advice to 
ENTRO on the ENPM.  ENTRO and the EN countries are being strengthened technically under 
this and other projects. 
 
·
Economic and Financial Sustainability
of proposed ENPM investments would require 
consideration of sustainability of the ENPM activities beyond the project period.  The quality of 
the work, frequent stakeholder interaction, housing this activity in existing government 
institutions at national-level and existing regional institution at the regional-level, partnerships 
with Universities, and the importance the countries attach to this activity are expected to ensure 
economic and financial sustainability of the project activities.  In the longer-term, ENPM is also 
Page  12
8
expected to improve the economic sustainability of investments on the Eastern Nile through 
improved economic analysis in a regional context.  
 
·
Institutional Sustainability
of the ENPM would require careful consideration of institutional 
arrangements in design and implementation.  This has been ensured through housing this activity 
at an NBI institution at regional level and logical government institutions at a national level.  
Structured stakeholder consultation will help a broader-based input into the design and use of the 
ENPM.  Partnerships with universities (e.g. University Outreach Centers) and strategic use of 
internships are proposed to improve sustainability of project activities and build future human 
capital. Letters of commitment received from the countries will help to ensure continuing 
cooperation in sharing of information and supporting national institutions in the development and 
use of the ENPM.  Consideration of these activities is part of institutional strengthening of 
ENTRO, strong training/capacity-building activities, and synergy with the Flood Protection and 
Early Warning Project, the longer-term Nile Basin DSS, and the proposed EN Joint Multipurpose 
Program are also expected to ensure institutional sustainability of ENPM activities. 
 
·
Social and Environmental Sustainability
would require adequate attention to social and 
environmental issues during project implementation.  Although the project itself is not expected 
to have adverse environmental and social impacts, the projects that it will be analyzing will 
provide opportunities and risks in an social and environmental context that have to be considered 
in a sustainable development perspective.  The project proposes serious integration of all the key 
dimensions of sustainability 
–
environmental, social, and economic – in the design of the ENPM.  
This will include adequate knowledge base collation on these issues, development of appropriate 
indicators, as well as analysis and comparison of the impacts of various alternative investments.  
Structured stakeholder consultation, information dissemination, inclusion of specialists and 
interns on environmental and social aspects would help the systematic consideration of these 
issues in development.  The ENPM should also greatly assist the conduct of future strategic and 
project-level social and environmental assessments in a regional context. 
 
24. Adequate consultant input and a strong monitoring system should also help ensure the 
sustainability of the ENPM project activities and indicate areas for additional focus in terms of 
improved targeting and sustainability of subsequent project activities.  The EN governments and 
ENTRO have demonstrated strong commitment to the project concepts and this should further 
improve sustainability of the investments. 
 
E.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects 
 
25. Key risks/controversial aspects, their significance, and mitigation measures put in place in the 
project are summarized in the table below: 
Key Risks 
Description & Mitigation Measures 
Significance 
after 
Mitigation 
Breakdown of 
Nile Basin 
Cooperation
 
Although there has been steadily increasing commitment to the cooperation 
process on the Nile, there still remains a risk of periodic tensions surfacing with 
the sensitive ongoing Nile Basin process.  This project should help further 
cement EN cooperation and help the countries in their efforts to move the focus 
of the dialogue from perceptions to facts, and explore cooperative water 
investments. 
S
Information 
required for 
ENTRO, with Bank facilitation, has initiated a shared “one-system inventory”, 
breaking f
rom a history of not sharing even basic information, to compile and 
M
Page  13
9
ENPM not 
adequately 
shared
 
successfully share detailed information on water, environment and socio-
economic aspects of the Eastern Nile.  In addition, Letters of Commitment have 
been obtained expressing country commitment to the ENPM and sharing of 
relevant information. 
Tools 
developed do 
not support 
investment 
decisions
 
During preparation, ENTRO, assisted by the Bank, has organized a conference 
to learn from modern international modeling experience, recruited an 
international consulting firm to prepare the ENPM framework, appointed a 
qualified coordinator at ENTRO to lead preparation and oversee implementation, 
and has facilitated meetings of a regional working group (from EN riparian 
representatives) to help ensure that the ENPM is designed to support investment 
decision-making.  Environmental, social and economic issues have been 
integrated right from the concept of these tools.  During implementation, an 
international consulting firm (competitively recruited with appropriate 
experience) will support the ENPM development, the structured stakeholder 
participation will help guide and use the analytical developments, and an 
international Panel of Experts will provide ENTRO support to continually draw 
upon international experiences. Effective use of the Internet, workshops, and 
partnerships with academia and potential data sources (including relevant global 
dataset providers) and users will also be made to improve effective ENPM use 
and sustainability.  In addition, synergy is being built with other programs (such 
as the Flood Preparedness and Early Warning Project, the Joint Multipurpose 
Program, and the longer-term Shared Vision Programs, especially on  Nile Basin 
DSS, Environment, and Socio-Economic Development and Benefit Sharing) to 
improve effective use of the ENPM. 
M
ENTRO’s 
fluctuating 
procurement 
capacity 
The risk with fluctuating procurement performance at ENTRO may be partly 
mitigated through (i) additional procurement staff; (ii) training, and (iii) the use 
of consultants, where capacity gaps exist. The roles and responsibilities of the 
existing procurement staff need to be more clearly defined and their work 
carefully monitored and facilitated by ENTRO management.  
M
Overall 
The team feels that the risks outlined above can be effectively managed and 
steps have already been initiated to facilitate this process and ensure the timely 
development of a useful ENPM that the three EN riparians have indicated strong 
commitment to develop. 
M
H-High, S-Substantial, M-Moderate, N-Negligible 
 
F.  Grant conditions and covenants 
 
26. The following are conditions for Approval of Grant Signing to ensure smooth implementation: 
ENPM staff will be in place, including a transitional staffing arrangement, in line with the 
detailed staffing plan agreed upon at Appraisal with the World Bank.   
ENTRO will advertise the General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the project.  
ENTRO will submit to the Bank draft request for expression of interest for the primary ENPM 
Consultancy. 
 
IV. 
APPRAISAL SUMMARY 
A.  Economic and financial analyses 
 
27. The Project will contribute to the overall success of the ENSAP by generating the necessary 
shared knowledge base and modeling tools and frameworks.  While the Project will generate benefits 
(e.g. information base, capacity building and training of ENTRO, EN Countries and associated staff, 
analytical tools, stakeholder involvement), the economic valuation of these are difficult to quantify.  
However, the true benefits of the Project will result from the actual use of the knowledge base and 
analytical tools, as well as the associated process of building these frameworks (e.g. stakeholder 
Page  14
10
involvement), and most importantly, the identification, evaluation (including cost-benefit analysis, 
sensitivity analysis, investment scenario comparison), and prioritization of water-related investments 
within the regional context.  The ENPM costs compare favorably to the initial phases of similar 
decision support systems in other parts of the world and are expected to be well worth the investment 
given its impact on designing and selecting investment scenarios that are expected to cost billions of 
USD.  It is expected that the benefits arising from the early identification of “win-win” investment 
strategies (analyzed at regional level through the ENPM) and strengthening regional interaction 
would far outweigh the cost of the ENPM project. 
 
B. Technical 
 
28. To facilitate cooperation on the Eastern Nile, there is a need for a systematic information base, 
tools that can consider water investments in a systems context, and involvement and capacity-
building of stakeholders.  The ENPM will consist of a state-of-the-art knowledge base, which would 
include a GIS system to collate spatial information and tools such as a modern website to organize 
other material.  Given that one model will be inadequate to examine the breadth of relationships to be 
analyzed for investment planning, a suite a tools will be developed (common in many similar basin 
decision support systems) to help simulate and optimize various aspects of EN basin investments and 
a
multicriteria analytical tool to visualize scenario comparisons. 
29. Given that effective decision making on selecting investments is seldom made on hydrology 
alone, a concerted effort is being made to use the available information to its best extent in providing 
economic, environmental and social perspectives on investment scenarios.  Building on modern 
decision theory approaches, structured stakeholder participation is proposed for a variety of 
stakeholders to effectively input into the design, development and use of the ENPM.  There is a need 
for close coordination and synergy between the development of the knowledge base, building demo 
and full versions of the models, institutional development and stakeholder consultation.  This includes 
close coordination between the Nile Basin DSS work and the ENPM to ensure synergy and effective 
use of resources.  The coordination at preparation is expected to continue effectively into 
implementation. 
 
C. Fiduciary 
 
30. 
Financial Management:
 
The overall responsibility for the financial management aspects of the 
Project rests with ENTRO.  ENTRO is now managed by strong management team and has good 
experience in implementation of Bank financed projects.  Some of the projects that are implemented 
or being implemented by ENTRO includes Policy and Human resource Development (PHRD), 
Watershed Management, Joint Multipurpose Project (JMP), Institutional Strengthening support, 
Africa Land and Water Initiative, and Eastern Nile Flood Prevention and Early Warning.  The 
Finance and Administration Department (FAD) has experienced and qualified staff to handle the 
financial management of the Grant. ENTRO uses Microsoft Dynamic Solomon accounting software 
which has adequate capacity to produce financial statement of the project. The project activities are 
recorded according to its computerized accounting systems by setting separate ledger books so as to 
report the project activities. The annual audited financial statements, along with the management 
letter, will be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of the ENTRO fiscal year. The 
external auditors are expected to issue a single audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements 
of ENTRO, including financial transactions of this Project. ENTRO will submit IFRs 45 days after 
the end of each calendar Quarter. ENTRO will open a Designated Account (DA) in US dollars in a 
Page  15
11
commercial Bank on terms and conditions that are satisfactory to the Bank. The DA will be managed 
by ENTRO. 
31. 
Procurement: 
Procurement for the Project would be managed by the ENTRO Procurement Unit. 
The Unit has a detailed procurement manual produced in March 2007 containing details on 
procurement objectives, policy, organization, and procedures.  A draft harmonized procurement 
manual is being prepared which when finalized will replace the ENTRO procurement manual and 
will be used by all NBI projects.  Two procurement professionals in ENTRO are currently in place: a 
Senior Procurement Specialist and a Junior Procurement Specialist.  The procurement staff has 
demonstrated reasonable capacity to manage procurement activities under the project, based on their 
past performance and participation in project preparation.  The ENPM project has one main 
consultancy contract of US$2.5 million to be procured using the Quality Based Selection (QBS) 
method and a number of smaller consultancy contracts and goods contracts.  Other financing will be 
for training and workshops and operating expenses.  All the procurements are to be carried out by 
ENT
RO following the Bank procurement and consultants’ guidelines as per the detailed project 
procurement arrangements in Annex 8. 
 
D. Social 
 
32. The project is not expected to have any significant adverse social impacts.  The social knowledge 
base on the Eastern Nile is not well established or organized.  The ENPM would seek to collate 
available social information, including what is known about the social impacts of proposed projects.  
Water resources modeling tools often neglect social issues.  At a request of the ENPM regional 
working group, the ENPM knowledge base and tools will be designed to try to best capture social 
issues in evaluating and comparing scenarios.  This is difficult and much of the initial effort in the 
ENPM will be in examining the depth of the available knowledge base (e.g. people that need to be 
resettled for particular projects depends on whether pre/feasibility studies or other relevant surveys 
have been conducted) and outlining social impact indicators and relationships that can be modeled 
effectively (e.g. jobs per ha of irrigated area developed in different locations) with the available 
information.  Broad stakeholder awareness and participation is limited in many such modeling efforts.  
The ENPM has already initiated stakeholder participation through a multi-sectoral regional working 
group that has guided the ENPM preparation.  It is expected that a major role of the ENPM is to 
improve stakeholder awareness and interaction in order to develop a shared understanding of potential 
water investments in a regional context and guide the development of the knowledge base and 
analytical tools.  Social capital is being built through project staffing (social development experts and 
interns), training, information dissemination, meetings, university partnerships and just working 
together across sectors and countries to better understand how the significant potential of the Eastern 
Nile can be harnessed to improve livelihoods and reduce vulnerability, especially of the poor. 
 
E. Environment 
 
33. There are expected to be no significant adverse environmental impacts of the ENPM project.  The 
project seeks to improve the systematic management of the growing environmental knowledge base 
of the region, collating information on the climate, water resources, land, and known environmental 
impacts of investments.  The modeling to be supported intends to try and capture the often neglected 
but critical environmental impacts of proposed investments.  As in the social case, the 
comprehensiveness of this difficult task will depend on the state of the knowledge base and 
relationships to be modeled with the available information.  The institutional capacity to better 
Page  16
12
manage environmental issues will be strengthened through staffing (environmental experts and 
interns), training, university partnerships, and awareness-building efforts. 
 
F. Safeguard policies 
 
34. This recipient-executed trust fund technical assistance project is not expected to have any adverse 
environmental or social impacts; in fact, the aim of the project is to build local and regional 
knowledge, stakeholder processes, and institutional capacity to better handle environmental and social 
issues in water resources planning.  The project has thus been categorized as Category C. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
35. A
 ‘Strategy for Addressing Environmental and Social Safeguards’ was developed under the NBI 
Institutional Strengthening Project in 2008. This document is applicable to all technical assistance 
projects that fall under NBI, including this ENPM project. The ongoing NBI Institutional Strengthening 
Project will also support the development of a Nile safeguards framework that will set the ground rules 
for investment operations in the Nile Basin.  
 
G.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness 
 
36. No Bank policy exceptions requested. 
37. The implementation readiness of the project has been assessed and determined to be appropriate.  A 
pre-appraisal carried out in February, 2007, and subsequent missions/discussions have assisted with 
evaluating and facilitating readiness for appraisal.  ENTRO and the EN countries have already initiated 
collation of a shared knowledge base through a One-System Inventory.  Regional Working Groups for the 
ENPM Project have input into the work of the Preparation Consultant to improve design of the project.  
NBTF financing has been designated for this project.  The initial technical capacity of ENTRO and EN 
countries is appropriate for being supported by the ENPM consultant during implementation.  
Procurement and financial management arrangements are appropriate to initiate implementation. 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  17
13
Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background 
EASTERN AFRICA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model
 
Eastern Nile Water Resources Overview 
 
1. 
The Eastern Nile basin (1.8m Km
2
)
accounts for much of the Nile basin area (3.1m Km
2
)
and 
covers substantial portions of Ethiopia, Sudan, Egypt and a minor part of Eritrea.  It accounts for 
the  Baro-Akobo-Sobat that joins the southern Nile to form the White Nile which is then joined 
by the Blue Nile at Khartoum to form the Main Nile that is joined by the Tekeze-Setit-Atbara 
further downstream.  The rainfall in the EN is concentrated in the highlands of Ethiopia (as high 
as annual 2270 mm in parts of the Blue Nile and Baro-Akobo basins).  Rainfall in the lower parts 
of the basin can be less than 100 mm a year.  In the upper course of the EN where the altitude is 
predominantly above 1000 masl, mean annual daily temperature is observed to be in the range of 
17
o
C
to 24
o
C.  However, mean temperatures are highest in Sudan (in between Khartoum and the 
Aswan reservoir) at around 30-32
o
C, leading to almost a factor of ten variation in evaporation 
rates between Masha in Ethiopia (785mm/yr) and Dongla in Sudan (7530 mm/yr). 
 
2. 
The Baro-Akobo-Sobat sub-basin (covering about 180,000 km
2
)
consists of the Baro river (and its 
tributaries such as the Birbir) and the Akobo river (with its main tributary, the Pibor).  After the 
confluence of the Baro and Akobo, the river is called Sobat in Sudan.  The river makes its way 
from an altitude of over 3000 masl in the Ethiopian hills to about 400 masl when the Sobat 
crosses into Sudan, while interacting with the Machar/Sobat marshes, on the way to its junction 
with the outflow from the Sudd wetlands that buffer the outflows from the Nile Equatorial 
Region.  The resulting White Nile (with its basin covering about 280,000 km
2
)
flows north to 
Khartoum where it joins the Blue Nile.  About 13 million people live in the sub-basin (80% in 
Sudan and 65% rural), with densities ranging from a sparse 5 people/km2 in upstream Jongli to 
almost 1000 people/km2 near Khartoum.  The Jebel-al Aulia dam regulates the White Nile at its 
confluence with the Blue Nile and has a reservoir that is over 600 km long. 
 
3. 
The Blue Nile (or Abbay as it is known in Ethiopia) has a basin of over 310,000 km
2
and has its 
origins in the Ethiopian highlands.  It begins its long journey from Laka Tana (area 3,000 km2) 
that is fed by the Gilgil Abbay (the little Abbay, believed to be the start of the Blue Nile system), 
Megech, Ribb and Gumera rivers.  The river flows through a deep gorge dropping from 4000 
masl to 400 masl on its journey to Khartoum. 
 
4. 
The Tekeze-Setit-Atbara sub-basin (covering about 230,000 km
2
)
consists of the Tekeze river 
(known as the Setit in Sudan), and its tributaries, the Goang (Atbara in Sudan) and Angereb, all of 
which originate in the north central highland plateau of Ethiopia.  As the river makes its 1325 km 
journey, it falls from a height of about 3000 masl near its origin to about 500 masl when it joins 
the main Nile in Sudan, about 285 km downstream of Khartoum.  It is home to about 6 million 
people in Ethiopia and about 2 million in Sudan, all primarily rural.  About 75% of the basin area 
is grassland, shrub land or bare land and 15% of the basin area is covered by rainfed crops. 
 
5. 
Under the NBI, the countries of the Nile are working together to improve cooperation for 
resource management and investments with international donor support under World Bank 
facilitation.  Under this broad framework, the EN countries have been working together to 
explore opportunities for cooperation in the Eastern Nile.  ENTRO has helped coordinate a 
number of cooperative activities, including Cooperative Regional Assessments (e.g. on watershed 
management, power trade, irrigation), knowledge base development (e.g. the EN One System 
Inventory), and other analysis.  There is general agreement that it is essential for the countries to 
Page  18
14
improve the shared knowledge base and analytical capacity to analyze investment and resource 
management options to better realize opportunities (e.g. hydropower, agriculture) and manage 
risks (e.g. climate change, losses, salinity, etc.) in the Eastern Nile. 
 
6. 
There is a critical need to consider investments in a regional context to understand inter-
relationships and maximize the benefits for the basin.  A basin-wide consideration of evolving 
risks is also essential.  Losses dominate the Eastern Nile system and it is critical to better 
understand the water accounting in the basin and analyze measures to improve efficient use of 
water.  Climate change has many implications on the Eastern Nile system in terms of changes in 
rainfall, temperature, and runoff; increased reservoir evaporation, evapo-transpiraton and crop 
water requirements; carbon fertilization; and sea-level rise.  Future planning should be robust to a 
number of climate change scenarios. 
 
7. 
The sections below describe the country backgrounds for the main riparian countries of the 
Eastern Nile. 
 
Ethiopia 
 
8. 
Macro-economic context: 
Ethiopia, with a population of 78,254,090 as of July 2008, is the 
second most populous country in Sub-Saharan Africa. With a GNI per capita of USD 110 in 2004 
Ethiopia is also one of the world’s poorest countries. In 2000, a national household survey found 
that 44 percent of people fall below the basic needs poverty line. Recovering from the 2002-03 
droughts, economic growth in Ethiopia has rebounded strongly with 11.5 percent growth in 
2003/04 and 9 percent growth (est.) in 2004/05. On the strength of agriculture, exports of goods 
and services grew 24.5 percent in 2004/05.  
9. 
Sovereign debt: 
On April 2, 2004, Ethiopia reached its Completion Point under the Enhanced 
HIPC initiative. In addition to the net present value (NPV) of US$1,275 million in HIPC debt 
relief announced at Decision Point, the Executive Boards also approved a topping-up of debt 
relief by an additional US$707 million in NPV terms. To ensure prudent borrowing in the future, 
the government has developed a debt management strategy with a forward looking set of aid and 
debt management policies. Ethiopia is one of 18 countries immediately eligible to benefit from 
the G-8 proposal to cancel 100 percent of debt owed to IDA, the IMF, and the AfDB. 
10. 
CAS: 
The 2008-2011 CAS is providing support to Ethiopia's Plan for Accelerated and Sustained 
Development to End Poverty (PASDEP), and thereby assisting the country's program to reduce 
poverty and achieve the MDGs. Firstly the Bank seeks to foster continued economic growth by 
sustaining high levels of investment in key areas, both in terms of physical and human capital, 
and in terms of institutional capacity building, which will be critical underpinnings of the Bank's 
Assistance Strategy. Secondly the Bank’s strategy will support improvements in the access to, 
and quality of, basic service delivery, to encourage an emerging ‘take-off’ in service delivery. 
Reducing Ethiopia’s vulnerability is the third main element for achieving CAS objectives to 
improve the prospects for sustainability. Last but not least, the Bank’s Strategy will foster 
improved governance to empower citizens and support progress made to date under the 2006 
Interim Country Assistance Strategy. The performance based allocation under IDA-15 
arrangements still needs to be finalized. Under the previous IDA-13 arrangements there was USD 
1.5 billion, with 50% grants and 50% credit
2
.
The 2008-2011 Country Assistance Strategy seeks 
to build upon possible opportunities for change embedded in the PASDEP’s strategic direction. 
2
Under 
IDA 14 (2005-2008) an indicative amount of USD 1,722 million has been allocated. This allocation is only indicative 
and may change, e.g. due to G8 debt relief. Currently the allocation is mixed credit and grant terms, but this is subject to review 
after completion of G8 debt relief and may result in 100% credit terms.
 
Page  19
15
11. 
Private sector:
 Growth is being increasingly driven by private consumption contrary to the 
pattern of the 1990s, where growth in public consumption tended to play the leading role. Other 
indicators of private sector activity, such as the ratio of private investment to GDP, and the 
volume of credit extended to the private sector, have also shown strong gains. Despite these 
positive developments, the emerging private sector in Ethiopia still faces a lack of skills, lack of 
capital, a weak (though improving) investment climate, and structural constraints such as market 
size and geography. 
12. 
Partnerships: 
The Bank, government, and donor partners have made significant progress in the 
harmonization process. The World Bank has taken a lead role in developing a diversified but 
focused set of instruments to reduce transactions costs, align support with the coun
try’s 
decentralized model, and enhance the predictability of aid. Eight donors—including the World 
Bank, African Development Bank, Canada, the United Kingdom, the European Union, Germany, 
Ireland, and Sweden—are providing budget support to Ethiopia. These partners have agreed on a 
common policy matrix as the basis for approving budget support.  
13. 
Water Sector:
 
The Ethiopian highlands are the source of most of the flow of the Eastern Nile 
basin and is the upstream contributor to the Blue Nile, Baro-Akobo-Sobat, and the Tekeze-Setit-
Atbara.  A large number of the rural poor live in the Ethiopian Highlands and are dependent 
largely on rainfed agriculture.  Watershed degradation and high erosion threaten their livelihoods.  
There is poor access to water-related services including reliable water supply, sanitation, power, 
and health. 
 
Sudan
 
14. 
Macro-economic context:
 Sudan is rich in resource potential, but has been severely impacted by 
the effects of a civil war, and it remains one of the poorest countries in the world, with 
widespread poverty and a weak and uneven economic and infrastructure base. Recent 
performance of Sudan's economy at a macro level has been impressive. GDP growth since 1995 
has averaged above 5 percent, reaching GNI per capita in 2007 of USD 960
3
.
This is largely due 
to the Government's strong economic reform package; the commencement of oil production; as 
well as high agricultural output. However, while high growth rates have increased Government 
revenues, inequality appears to have risen in terms of widespread poverty, highly skewed income 
distribution, and inadequate delivery of social services. 
Unrealized oil revenue projections and 
continued fiscal expansion have also resulted in high fiscal deficits, reaching an estimated 
3.5 percent of GDP in 2007.
 
15. 
Sovereign Debt: 
Sudan is a heavily indebted poor country (HIPC) that has struggled with a high 
and rising external debt burden since the late 1970s. By the end of 2006 the stock of debt was ca. 
USD 25.7
4
billion, most of it in arrears (including the World Bank). Subsequently access to 
external financing for capital intensive projects is limited (IDA financial support is not possible 
because of these arrears). Given the size of the debt, a comprehensive and phased approach, 
including multi-donor support, is essential. Even after debt rescheduling, Sudan will still have 
difficulties financing all its development and reconstruction needs. Sudan will be expected to put 
measures in place to improve public resource management. 
16. 
JAM:
 The Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) has led to a Framework for Sustained Peace, 
Development and Poverty Eradication, which will be supported by domestic efforts and 
3
According to World Bank country data: Sudan 
–
Atlas method in current USD. 
4
According to World Bank country data: Sudan – Total external debt + Short term debt outstanding 
Page  20
16
resources, as well as development partners. The JAM provides Sudan an assessment of 
rehabilitation and transitional recovery needs focused on the next two years, and outlines a 
framework for reconstruction and recovery through 2010, including consolidating peace, 
improving governance, expanding access to basic services, establishing institutions, developing 
physical infrastructure, strengthening agriculture and promoting private sector participation. The 
Government of Sudan has begun the process of preparing an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy 
Paper, with technical assistance from the World Bank and the United Nations Development 
Program (UNDP). 
5
Since 2005 the Bank has administered two large Multi-Donor Trust Funds 
(MDTFs), and provided support through a variety of other facilities, in order to try to build 
Sudan’s capacity to sustain peace and reduce conflict.  
17. 
Private sector: 
One of the Government’s four cornerstones in promoting growth is
 
limiting the 
role of the state in business, e.g. by privatizing state owned enterprises (SOEs) and opening up all 
sectors of the economy to private sector participation. The development of the oil industry has 
attracted foreign investment and supported growth, but
 w
hile much of Sudan’s recent 
economic growth has been due to increasing oil production, sustained growth over the 
longer term requires that other sources of growth can take the lead – particularly the 
private sector. 
Telecom and food processing have gained from foreign direct investment through 
the privatization process. Investment in the power sector is also badly needed, but until recently 
investors have been hesitant because of the large risks. Although progress is slow, the reforms 
have reduced the budget deficit and the risks of contingent liabilities. Subsidy claims and loan 
guarantees to the state-owned enterprises have declined, and receipts from the sale of SOEs have 
raised government revenues. 
The Bank is also finalizing an Investment Climate Assessment 
(ICA) which focuses on private sector development (PSD) and the constraints faced by 
micro and small businesses.
 
18. 
Partnerships:
 The Bank is the administrator of the two Multi-Donor Trust Funds (established 
respectively for North and South). The estimated financing needed to implement the primarily 
humanitarian aid focused Phase I (2005-2007) of the JAM program was USD 7.9 billion. 
Preliminary estimates for the more development oriented Phase II (2008-2011) suggest a cost of 
ca. USD 1.5 billion a year. Donors committed a total of USD 4.5 billion to Phase I. The biggest 
donors are the Netherlands, Norway, the UK and the EU. The gap will be funded by the NG and 
GOSS. A Sudan Consortium brings the international donor community together on a regular 
basis.  
19. 
Water Sector:
 
Sudan is in between Ethiopia and Egypt as the Eastern Nile rivers join the Nile 
mainstem.  Sediment management from upstream erosion is a major problem in its reservoirs and 
large irrigation systems such as the Gezira.  It has substantial lands available for irrigation, but 
irrigation requirements are high in the North due to high temperatures.  The southern region is 
also home to large wetland areas and many ethnic groups that depend on the wetland areas for 
their livelihood.  Access to reliable water, sanitation, and power is poor, especially in the rural 
areas.  The Merowe Dam has just been completed on the Nile mainstem upstream of the Aswan 
Dam in Egypt. 
 
Egypt 
 
20. 
Macro-economic context: 
Egypt has made considerably progress in economic development 
during the last two decades. After rapid growth during 1976 to 1986 plummeting oil prices led to 
lower growth rates, but reform polices and heavy borrowing, as well as prudent stabilization 
5
The Bank prepared a Country Economic Memorandum for Sudan in 2003. 
Page  21
17
efforts and structural reforms, have reversed the trend and the fiscal balance, foreign reserves, and 
external debt have improved. The first half of 2005 registered GDP growth rates above 5 percent. 
In 2007 GNI per capita was USD 1,580
6
,
placing Egypt as a middle-income country. The 
recovery has mainly been fuelled by the tourism industry, significant natural gas findings and 
exports, and an increase in exports. As a result of economic growth some rating agencies have 
upgraded Eg
ypt’s credit rating to BB+ (Standard & Poor’s), which is still, however, below 
investment grade.  The effects of the ongoing global financial crisis on Egypt are still not fully 
known. 
21. 
Sovereign debt: 
Fiscal deficit and public debt remain an area of concern. The consolidated fiscal 
deficit is projected at 3.1 percent of GDP which is higher than the FY04 level of 2.7 percent.  Net 
consolidated public debt, largely domestic, reached 88 percent of GDP which would be a source 
of concern if annual deficits are not contained. Foreign debt is actively contained at around 40 
percent of GDP. Reduction of the fiscal deficit to more sustainable levels will require new 
measures related to better targeting of implicit and explicit subsidies, strengthened tax 
administration and tighter expenditure controls.  
22. 
CAS: 
The Government of Egypt spelled out a long term vision of development which includes 
the twin goals of achieving high and sustainable growth and the alleviation of poverty and income 
disparity. In response to these national goals, the current CAS (FY06-FY09) is aimed at 
supporting three key development objectives — 
facilitating private sector development, 
enhancing the provision of public services, and promoting equity. To achieve these objectives, the 
strategy proposes a results-based financial assistance program in the range of about $2-2.8 billion 
dollars in support of enhancements in infrastructure, education, poverty alleviation, financial 
sector reforms, combined with the Bank’s non-lending technical assistance, analytical and 
advisory services underpinning the reform program.  
23. 
Private sector: 
The strategic challenge for the Government of Egypt is to facilitate an increase in 
private investment and attract foreign investment through improving the business climate and 
undertaking complementary public investments. It has begun to consider ways to increase and 
improve public infrastructure through new public investments and through facilitating private 
investment in relevant areas. There are five inter-linked themes in Egypt's vision for the private 
sector: (i) Improving the business environment; (ii) Integration in the global and regional 
economies; (iii) Privatization; (iv) Strengthening partnership between private and public sectors; 
and(v) Supporting development of Small and Medium Enterprises. Overlaying these themes is the 
need to reform the financial sector and improve infrastructure services.  
24. 
Partnerships: 
Frequent consultations by the Bank with donor representatives have been critical 
to ensure effective collaboration and mobilizing financial support to Bank projects. USAID and 
the EC are the main donors. USAID is increasingly supporting efforts in the education, 
governance, and financial sector domains as compared to ongoing programs in the water, 
environment and infrastructure. EC assistance for Egypt is expected to support efforts in the 
water, governance, and innovation and R&D domains. Additional EC resources, possibly twice as 
large as those currently available, are expected to be negotiated under the aegis of the new 
European Neighborhood Policy. More recently, the AfDB announced that it plans to significantly 
enhance its support to Egypt with emphasis on power generation, financial reforms and transport.  
25. 
Water Sector:
 
Egypt is the most downstream country on the Nile system.  The construction of 
the Aswan Dam has facilitated large uses for water for irrigation, hydropower, and navigation, 
while reducing vulnerability to floods and droughts for the country.  Water quality problems are 
becoming increasingly important in the Nile system in Egypt. 
6
According to World Bank country data: Egypt 
–
Atlas method in current USD 
Page  22
18
Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies 
EASTERN AFRICA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model
 
Latest Supervision (ISR) Ratings 
Project/AAA 
Sector Issues Addressed 
Implementation 
Progress (IP) 
Development 
Objective (DO) 
Bank-financed
 
Egypt: West Delta Water 
Conservation and Irrigation 
Rehabilitation  
Groundwater Management and 
Irrigation Modernization 
MU MU 
Egypt: Integrated Irrigation 
Improvement and 
Management  
Irrigation and drainage 
management 
MU S 
Ethiopia: Tana & Beles 
Integrated Water Resources 
Development 
Lake/river basin management 
MS 
S 
Ethiopia:  Irrigation and 
Drainage Project 
Water/Agriculture 
Productivity Improvement 
S
S
Ethiopia: Productive Safety 
Net APL I & II 
Watershed development 
S 
S 
Other Development Agencies
 
Sudan: Gezira Irrigated 
Agriculture Reforms 
Rural policies and institutions, 
water resources management 
Completed  
Sudan: Reforming Irrigated 
Agriculture 
Irrigation Management reform 
Completed 
 
NBTF: SVP Water 
Resources Planning  & 
Management  
Water resources planning and 
management 
On-going  
NBTF: NBI Institutional 
Strengthening Project  
Capacity-building for river-
basin management 
On-going  
NBTF: EN Flood Prevention 
and Early Warning Project: 
Phase 1 
Capacity-building for flood 
management in three EN 
countries 
On-going  
AfDB: Eastern Nile 
Regional Power Trade 
Study-Phase I 
Power trade 
Completed 
 
NBTF: EN Cooperative 
Regional Assessment (CRA) 
for Watershed Management 
Watershed management 
Completed 
 
NBTF: EN Cooperative 
Regional Assessment (CRA) 
for Irrigation  Management 
Irrigation Management 
Completed 
 
Norway: Pre-Feasibility 
Study for Karadobi 
Multipurpose Dam  
Multipurpose water resources 
development 
Completed  
Page  23
19
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring 
EASTERN AFRICA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model
 
Results Framework 
PDO 
Outcome Indicators 
Use of Outcome 
Information 
Countries in the Eastern 
Nile operationalize an 
improved decision support 
modeling framework to 
identify water-related 
investments and evaluate 
them in a regional context. 
Investment Planning Facilitation 
·
Number of projects in Eastern Nile for which Investment Strategies are based 
on ENPM analysis 
Strengthened Institutions 
·
Number of regional and national meetings facilitated by ENPM outputs 
·
Number of senior professionals in regional/national institutions using ENPM 
 
Need for and design of 
additional phases of the 
ENPM and its 
integration into the Nile 
DSS. 
Intermediate Results 
Results Indicators for Each Component 
Use of Monitoring 
Results 
Component One: Information Management Systems Development 
Operational  Database  
Management  System 
(i) Comprehensive knowledge base developed for ENPM 
·
Database architecture developed to facilitate interfacing with the Nile DSS being 
developed under Nile Basin Initiative Shared Vision Project 
·
Centralized database (on projects, climate, hydrology, hydraulics, economic, 
social, environmental aspects, etc.) developed, collated, and organized; State of 
the Eastern Nile Report produced 
(ii) Data management and analysis interfaces developed 
·
Data Management Interfaces developed for model inputs and outputs 
·
User-friendly interfaces developed for access to and analysis (statistical, 
graphical and spatial) of knowledge base and model inputs and outputs 
·
Identification of 
knowledge gaps 
·
Additional studies 
that need to be 
conducted to address 
these gaps 
·
Demand for 
publications such as a 
State of the Eastern 
Nile report 
Intermediate Results 
Results Indicators for Each Component 
Use of Monitoring 
Results 
Component Two: Modeling Systems Development 
Calibrated and 
Validated Eastern Nile 
Planning Modeling 
System 
(i) Fully-Functional ENPM Model developed 
·
ENPM Model developed, tested, reviewed and accepted (including 
hydrologic/hydraulic, economic, environmental and social modules)  
(ii) ENPM Model used to evaluate investment options for sustainable planning and 
management of the Eastern Nile 
·
Number of Regional and National Projects (including storage, hydropower, 
irrigation, navigation, flood management, fisheries, etc.) in the Eastern Nile 
evaluated using ENPM under future scenarios 
·
Need for additional 
modeling tools 
·
Need for additional 
knowledge to 
effectively model 
economic, 
environmental, and 
social issues 
Intermediate Results 
Results Indicators for Each Component 
Use of Monitoring 
Results 
Component Three: Institutional Capacity Strengthening 
Acceptance of ENPM 
as a shared analytical 
framework to analyze 
EN investments 
Regional & National ENPM institutions created and operationalized 
·
ENPM Office (at ENTRO) established and fully-staffed and equipped 
·
Model Coordinating Unit (MCU) at National Focal Point Institutional 
established and fully-staffed and equipped 
·
Regional Working Group/ National Groups/ University Outreach Center 
mtgs./other structured stakeholder forums organized regularly and effectively 
Adequate Capacity-building and Training activities undertaken 
·
Number of persons trained at decision making, senior professionals and 
analytical support levels 
·
Number of workshops, study tours and training programs organized 
·
User Manuals, Workbooks, and other relevant system documentation developed 
for Knowledge Base and Models 
·
Improved data availability, accessibility and quality 
·
Information flow 
needs 
·
Designing improved 
stakeholder forums 
·
Institutional 
strengthening needs 
 
Page  24
20
 
Arrangements for results monitoring
1. 
Overall monitoring and coordination of project activities will be undertaken by ENTRO, both by 
the ENPM Project team as well as 
by
ENTRO’s M&E Officer who would oversee monitoring for 
all ENTRO activities.  In addition, financial management and procurement for the project would 
be monitored by specialized ENTRO officers.  Regional and National working groups and 
National University Centers are expected to contribute substantial constructive feedback for the 
ENPM knowledge base and tools being developed.  Training courses and meetings organized will 
also collect participant feedback.  ENTRO will also use questionnaires (including web-based 
surveys) to obtain regular feedback on the ENPM development and use.  
 
2. 
In addition, the Bank will carry out the normal review procedures for procurement and conduct 
regular supervision missions. Supervision will also include the review of Interim Un-audited 
Financial Reports quarterly reports provided by ENTRO, independent annual financial audits of 
the project and financial statements of ENTRO.  The Bank will also carry out a mid-term review 
and ICR mission.  
 
3. 
The project would also recruit an experienced international panel of experts to provide guidance 
and quality management for the project activities, particularly in evaluating Consultant outputs.  
The costs of all these monitoring, evaluation, and adaptive management approaches have been 
fully factored into the project costs.  
 
Page  25
2
1
A
r
r
a
n
g
e
m
e
n
t
s
f
o
r
r
e
s
u
l
t
s
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
O
u
t
c
o
m
e
/
R
e
s
u
l
t
s
I
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
s
B
a
s
e
l
i
n
e
Y
e
a
r
1
Y
e
a
r
3
F
r
e
q
u
e
n
c
y
a
n
d
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
D
a
t
a
C
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
I
n
s
t
r
u
m
e
n
t
s
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
D
a
t
a
C
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
I
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
P
l
a
n
n
i
n
g
F
a
c
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
·
N
u
m
b
e
r
o
f
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
i
n
E
a
s
t
e
r
n
N
i
l
e
f
o
r
w
h
i
c
h
I
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
S
t
r
a
t
e
g
i
e
s
a
r
e
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
E
N
P
M
a
n
a
l
y
s
i
s
S
t
r
e
n
g
t
h
e
n
e
d
I
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
s
·
N
u
m
b
e
r
o
f
r
e
g
i
o
n
a
l
a
n
d
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
m
e
e
t
i
n
g
s
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
a
t
e
d
b
y
E
N
P
M
o
u
t
p
u
t
s
·
N
u
m
b
e
r
o
f
s
e
n
i
o
r
p
r
o
f
e
s
s
i
o
n
a
l
s
i
n
R
e
g
i
o
n
a
l
a
n
d
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
I
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
s
u
s
i
n
g
E
N
P
M
N
o
n
e
N
o
n
e
N
o
n
e
N
o
n
e
N
o
n
e
A
t
l
e
a
s
t
t
w
o
(
r
e
g
i
o
n
a
l
-
l
e
v
e
l
)
a
n
d
o
n
e
e
a
c
h
(
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
-
l
e
v
e
l
)
K
e
y
E
N
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
a
n
a
l
y
z
e
d
(
a
t
l
e
a
s
t
o
n
e
m
a
j
o
r
j
o
i
n
t
m
u
l
t
i
-
p
u
r
p
o
s
e
a
n
d
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
i
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
)
A
t
l
e
a
s
t
o
n
e
(
r
e
g
i
o
n
a
l
)
a
n
d
o
n
e
e
a
c
h
(
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
)
A
t
l
e
a
s
t
f
o
u
r
(
r
e
g
i
o
n
a
l
-
l
e
v
e
l
)
a
n
d
t
w
o
e
a
c
h
(
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
-
l
e
v
e
l
)
E
N
T
R
O
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
p
r
o
g
r
e
s
s
r
e
p
o
r
t
s
(
a
n
n
u
a
l
)
I
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
S
t
r
a
t
e
g
y
A
n
a
l
y
s
i
s
R
e
p
o
r
t
(
Y
r
2
)
S
u
r
v
e
y
s
,
E
N
T
R
O
/
C
o
u
n
t
r
y
a
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
s
E
N
T
R
O
(
w
i
t
h
i
n
p
u
t
f
r
o
m
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
M
C
U
s
)
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
O
n
e
:
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
S
y
s
t
e
m
s
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
(
i
)
C
o
m
p
r
e
h
e
n
s
i
v
e
k
n
o
w
l
e
d
g
e
b
a
s
e
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
f
o
r
E
N
P
M
·
D
a
t
a
b
a
s
e
a
r
c
h
i
t
e
c
t
u
r
e
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
t
o
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
a
t
e
i
n
t
e
r
f
a
c
i
n
g
w
i
t
h
t
h
e
N
i
l
e
D
S
S
b
e
i
n
g
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
u
n
d
e
r
N
i
l
e
B
a
s
i
n
I
n
i
t
i
a
t
i
v
e
S
h
a
r
e
d
V
i
s
i
o
n
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
·
C
e
n
t
r
a
l
i
z
e
d
d
a
t
a
b
a
s
e
d
e
s
i
g
n
e
d
a
n
d
d
a
t
a
(
o
n
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
,
c
l
i
m
a
t
e
,
h
y
d
r
o
l
o
g
y
,
h
y
d
r
a
u
l
i
c
s
,
e
c
o
n
o
m
i
c
,
s
o
c
i
a
l
,
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
a
s
p
e
c
t
s
,
e
t
c
.
)
c
o
l
l
a
t
e
d
a
n
d
o
r
g
a
n
i
z
e
d
(
i
i
)
D
a
t
a
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
a
n
a
l
y
s
i
s
i
n
t
e
r
f
a
c
e
s
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
·
D
a
t
a
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
I
n
t
e
r
f
a
c
e
s
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
f
o
r
m
o
d
e
l
i
n
p
u
t
s
a
n
d
o
u
t
p
u
t
s
N
o
n
e
S
c
a
t
t
e
r
e
d
d
a
t
a
b
a
s
e
s
w
i
t
h
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
a
g
e
n
c
i
e
s
w
i
t
h
l
i
m
i
t
e
d
a
c
c
e
s
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
;
L
i
m
i
t
e
d
o
n
e
-
s
y
s
t
e
m
i
n
v
e
n
t
o
r
y
w
i
t
h
E
N
T
R
O
N
o
n
e
D
a
t
a
s
h
a
r
i
n
g
,
e
x
c
h
a
n
g
e
a
n
d
q
u
a
l
i
t
y
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
p
r
o
t
o
c
o
l
s
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
a
n
d
a
c
c
e
p
t
e
d
C
e
n
t
r
a
l
i
z
e
d
d
a
t
a
b
a
s
e
d
e
s
i
g
n
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
d
B
a
s
i
c
d
a
t
a
(
o
n
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
,
c
l
i
m
a
t
e
,
h
y
d
r
o
l
o
g
y
,
h
y
d
r
a
u
l
i
c
s
,
e
c
o
n
o
m
i
c
,
s
o
c
i
a
l
,
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
a
s
p
e
c
t
s
,
e
t
c
.
)
c
o
l
l
a
t
e
d
a
n
d
o
r
g
a
n
i
z
e
d
D
M
I
s
d
e
s
i
g
n
e
d
a
n
d
d
e
m
o
n
s
t
r
a
t
e
d
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
m
o
d
e
l
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
a
n
d
u
s
e
r
i
n
p
u
t
P
r
o
t
o
c
o
l
s
f
u
l
l
y
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
e
d
C
e
n
t
r
a
l
i
z
e
d
d
a
t
a
b
a
s
e
f
u
l
l
y
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
;
a
d
d
i
t
i
o
n
a
l
d
a
t
a
c
o
l
l
a
t
e
d
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
a
n
a
l
y
s
i
s
a
n
d
u
s
e
r
f
e
e
d
b
a
c
k
S
t
a
t
e
o
f
E
a
s
t
e
r
n
N
i
l
e
R
e
p
o
r
t
D
M
I
s
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
a
n
d
f
u
l
l
y
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
f
o
r
m
o
d
e
l
i
n
p
u
t
s
a
n
d
o
u
t
p
u
t
s
E
N
T
R
O
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
P
r
o
g
r
e
s
s
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
(
6
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
)
E
N
T
R
O
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
P
r
o
g
r
e
s
s
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
(
6
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
)
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
(
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
)
R
e
g
i
o
n
a
l
a
n
d
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
M
e
e
t
i
n
g
m
i
n
u
t
e
s
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
(
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
)
;
U
s
e
r
F
e
e
d
b
a
c
k
E
N
T
R
O
E
N
T
R
O
Page  26
2
2
O
u
t
c
o
m
e
/
R
e
s
u
l
t
s
I
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
s
B
a
s
e
l
i
n
e
Y
e
a
r
1
Y
e
a
r
3
F
r
e
q
u
e
n
c
y
a
n
d
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
D
a
t
a
C
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
I
n
s
t
r
u
m
e
n
t
s
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
D
a
t
a
C
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
·
U
s
e
r
-
f
r
i
e
n
d
l
y
i
n
t
e
r
f
a
c
e
s
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
f
o
r
a
c
c
e
s
s
t
o
a
n
d
a
n
a
l
y
s
i
s
(
s
t
a
t
i
s
t
i
c
a
l
,
g
r
a
p
h
i
c
a
l
a
n
d
s
p
a
t
i
a
l
)
o
f
k
n
o
w
l
e
d
g
e
b
a
s
e
a
n
d
m
o
d
e
l
i
n
p
u
t
s
a
n
d
o
u
t
p
u
t
s
N
o
n
e
U
s
e
r
-
f
r
i
e
n
d
l
y
i
n
t
e
r
f
a
c
e
s
d
e
s
i
g
n
e
d
a
n
d
d
e
m
o
n
s
t
r
a
t
e
d
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
m
o
d
e
l
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
a
n
d
u
s
e
r
i
n
p
u
t
I
n
t
e
r
f
a
c
e
s
f
u
l
l
y
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
T
w
o
:
M
o
d
e
l
i
n
g
S
y
s
t
e
m
s
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
(
i
)
F
u
l
l
y
-
F
u
n
c
t
i
o
n
a
l
E
N
P
M
M
o
d
e
l
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
·
E
N
P
M
M
o
d
e
l
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
,
t
e
s
t
e
d
,
r
e
v
i
e
w
e
d
a
n
d
a
c
c
e
p
t
e
d
(
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
h
y
d
r
o
l
o
g
i
c
/
h
y
d
r
a
u
l
i
c
,
e
c
o
n
o
m
i
c
,
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
l
a
n
d
s
o
c
i
a
l
m
o
d
u
l
e
s
)
(
i
i
)
E
N
P
M
M
o
d
e
l
u
s
e
d
t
o
e
v
a
l
u
a
t
e
i
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
o
p
t
i
o
n
s
f
o
r
s
u
s
t
a
i
n
a
b
l
e
p
l
a
n
n
i
n
g
a
n
d
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
o
f
t
h
e
E
a
s
t
e
r
n
N
i
l
e
·
N
u
m
b
e
r
o
f
R
e
g
i
o
n
a
l
a
n
d
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
i
n
t
h
e
E
a
s
t
e
r
n
N
i
l
e
(
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
,
h
y
d
r
o
p
o
w
e
r
,
i
r
r
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
,
n
a
v
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
,
f
l
o
o
d
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
,
f
i
s
h
e
r
i
e
s
,
e
t
c
.
)
e
v
a
l
u
a
t
e
d
u
s
i
n
g
E
N
P
M
N
i
l
e
D
S
S
m
o
d
u
l
e
s
u
n
d
e
r
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
N
o
n
e
E
N
P
M
M
o
d
u
l
e
s
d
e
s
i
g
n
e
d
A
c
c
e
p
t
a
b
l
e
d
e
m
o
v
e
r
s
i
o
n
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
,
d
i
s
c
u
s
s
e
d
a
t
R
W
G
K
e
y
R
e
g
i
o
n
a
l
a
n
d
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
i
d
e
n
t
i
f
i
e
d
a
l
o
n
g
w
i
t
h
s
a
l
i
e
n
t
f
e
a
t
u
r
e
s
F
u
l
l
-
s
c
a
l
e
E
N
P
M
M
o
d
e
l
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
a
n
d
t
e
s
t
e
d
I
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
o
p
t
i
o
n
s
a
n
a
l
y
s
e
d
u
s
i
n
g
E
N
P
M
A
t
l
e
a
s
t
t
h
r
e
e
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
t
e
s
t
e
d
E
N
T
R
O
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
P
r
o
g
r
e
s
s
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
(
6
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
)
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
(
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
)
;
R
e
g
i
o
n
a
l
a
n
d
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
M
e
e
t
i
n
g
m
i
n
u
t
e
s
E
N
T
R
O
E
N
P
M
M
a
n
a
g
e
r
a
t
E
N
T
R
O
i
n
-
p
l
a
c
e
E
N
P
M
C
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
s
i
n
-
p
l
a
c
e
(
i
n
E
t
h
i
o
p
i
a
,
S
u
d
a
n
&
E
g
y
p
t
)
M
e
e
t
i
n
g
a
s
n
e
e
d
e
d
E
N
P
M
E
N
T
R
O
O
f
f
i
c
e
e
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
,
f
u
l
l
y
-
s
t
a
f
f
e
d
a
n
d
e
q
u
i
p
p
e
d
M
C
U
s
e
s
t
a
b
l
i
s
h
e
d
,
f
u
l
l
-
s
t
a
f
f
e
d
a
n
d
e
q
u
i
p
p
e
d
M
e
e
t
Q
u
a
r
t
e
r
l
y
E
N
P
M
O
f
f
i
c
e
s
t
r
e
n
g
t
h
e
n
e
d
a
s
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
M
C
U
s
s
t
r
e
n
g
t
h
e
n
e
d
a
s
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
M
e
e
t
q
u
a
r
t
e
r
l
y
E
N
T
R
O
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
P
r
o
g
r
e
s
s
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
(
6
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
)
E
N
T
R
O
a
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
s
;
M
e
e
t
i
n
g
s
(
i
n
c
l
.
t
e
l
e
/
v
i
d
e
o
c
o
n
f
e
r
e
n
c
e
)
m
i
n
u
t
e
s
;
E
N
T
R
O
a
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
s
E
N
T
R
O
Page  27
2
3
O
u
t
c
o
m
e
/
R
e
s
u
l
t
s
I
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
s
B
a
s
e
l
i
n
e
Y
e
a
r
1
Y
e
a
r
3
F
r
e
q
u
e
n
c
y
a
n
d
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
D
a
t
a
C
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
I
n
s
t
r
u
m
e
n
t
s
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
i
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
D
a
t
a
C
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
·
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
N
e
t
w
o
r
k
s
a
n
d
U
n
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
C
e
n
t
e
r
s
c
o
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
e
d
a
n
d
f
u
n
c
t
i
o
n
i
n
g
A
d
e
q
u
a
t
e
C
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
-
b
u
i
l
d
i
n
g
a
n
d
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
u
n
d
e
r
t
a
k
e
n
·
N
u
m
b
e
r
o
f
p
e
r
s
o
n
s
t
r
a
i
n
e
d
a
t
d
e
c
i
s
i
o
n
m
a
k
i
n
g
,
s
e
n
i
o
r
p
r
o
f
e
s
s
i
o
n
a
l
s
a
n
d
a
n
a
l
y
t
i
c
a
l
s
u
p
p
o
r
t
l
e
v
e
l
s
·
N
u
m
b
e
r
o
f
w
o
r
k
s
h
o
p
s
,
s
t
u
d
y
t
o
u
r
s
a
n
d
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
p
r
o
g
r
a
m
s
o
r
g
a
n
i
z
e
d
·
U
s
e
r
M
a
n
u
a
l
s
,
W
o
r
k
b
o
o
k
s
,
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
r
e
l
e
v
a
n
t
s
y
s
t
e
m
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
f
o
r
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
S
y
s
t
e
m
s
(
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
m
e
t
a
d
a
t
a
)
a
n
d
M
o
d
e
l
s
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
N
o
t
c
o
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
e
d
N
o
n
e
N
o
n
e
N
o
n
e
S
c
a
t
t
e
r
e
d
d
a
t
a
b
a
s
e
s
L
i
m
i
t
e
d
o
n
e
-
s
y
s
t
e
m
i
n
v
e
n
t
o
r
y
T
O
R
/
R
F
P
d
r
a
f
t
e
d
N
o
n
e
E
N
T
R
O
c
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
N
o
n
e
U
n
i
v
C
e
n
t
e
r
s
/
N
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
N
e
t
w
o
r
k
s
c
o
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
e
d
a
n
d
m
e
e
t
Q
u
a
r
t
e
r
l
y
3
0
(
o
v
e
r
a
l
l
l
e
v
e
l
s
)
1
w
o
r
k
s
h
o
p
1
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
p
r
o
g
r
a
m
R
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
o
u
t
l
i
n
e
d
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
s
h
a
r
i
n
g
p
r
o
t
o
c
o
l
s
f
i
n
a
l
i
z
e
d
;
b
a
s
i
c
d
a
t
a
b
a
s
e
s
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
R
e
c
r
u
i
t
e
d
B
a
s
i
c
p
r
o
c
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
d
E
N
T
R
O
,
M
C
U
s
,
R
W
G
s
a
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
n
g
E
N
P
M
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
g
u
l
a
r
r
e
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
a
n
d
a
d
a
p
t
i
v
e
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
N
e
t
w
o
r
k
s
m
e
e
t
q
u
a
r
t
e
r
l
y
5
0
(
o
v
e
r
a
l
l
l
e
v
e
l
s
)
2
w
o
r
k
s
h
o
p
s
1
s
t
u
d
y
t
o
u
r
5
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
p
r
o
g
r
a
m
s
D
r
a
f
t
u
s
e
r
m
a
n
u
a
l
s
,
w
o
r
k
b
o
o
k
s
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
d
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
s
y
s
t
e
m
s
f
u
l
l
y
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
a
n
d
s
h
a
r
e
d
a
m
o
n
g
E
N
c
o
u
n
t
r
i
e
s
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
c
o
n
t
i
n
u
e
f
u
n
c
t
i
o
n
i
n
g
A
n
y
a
d
d
i
t
i
o
n
a
l
p
r
o
c
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
c
o
m
p
l
e
t
e
d
a
s
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
E
N
T
R
O
,
M
C
U
s
,
R
W
G
s
a
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
n
g
E
N
P
M
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
g
u
l
a
r
r
e
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
a
n
d
a
d
a
p
t
i
v
e
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
E
N
T
R
O
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
P
r
o
g
r
e
s
s
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
(
6
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
)
E
N
T
R
O
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
P
r
o
g
r
e
s
s
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
(
6
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
)
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
R
e
p
o
r
t
s
(
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
)
;
U
s
e
r
F
e
e
d
b
a
c
k
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
r
e
p
o
r
t
s
(
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
)
;
E
N
T
R
O
a
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
s
E
N
T
R
O
E
N
T
R
O
Page  28
24
Annex 4: Detailed Project Description 
EASTERN AFRICA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model
 
1. The ENPM Project seeks to better inform decision making on water-resources 
investments in the Eastern Nile through a better assessment of their regional implications.  
The project contains three major components:  
Component A: 
Knowledge Base Development,  
Component B:
 Modeling System Development, and  
Component C: 
Institutional and Human Capacity Building. 
 
2. 
The key activities to be undertaken under these components are detailed below: 
Component 
Outcome 
Outputs 
Activities 
1.1 Review Existing Data & Determine Data Needs 
1.2 Review and Fine-tune Database Structure (based on NB DSS) 
1.3 Adapt Information Sharing Protocols (based on NB DSS) 
1.4 Populate Database (incl. GIS database for Eastern Nile) 
1. Design and 
Develop 
Centralized 
Database 
1.5 Coordinate closely with WRPMP DSS 
2.1 Review and Fine-tune user-friendly and flexible model  DMIs 
2. Design and 
Develop Data 
Management 
Interface 
(DMI) 
2.2 Review and Fine-tune user-friendly and flexible output DMIs 
3.1 Review and Fine-tune statistical analyses tools 
3. Develop 
Data Analysis 
Tools 
3.2 Review and Fine-tune graphical analyses tools 
4.1 Establish Quality Control Procedures 
4. Establish 
Quality 
Control 
Procedures 
4.2 Recommend future enhancements (e.g. strategy to address 
significant knowledge gaps, training/outreach plan, interface 
and use improvement) 
5.1 Conduct Training and Produce Documentation (incl. metadata, 
training manuals, annotated bibliography) 
5.2 Develop fully-functional Website 
1. Knowledge 
Base 
Development  
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
D
a
t
a
b
a
s
e
M
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
S
y
s
t
e
m
5. Training & 
Outreach 
5.3 Develop State of the Eastern Nile Report, interactive CD-ROM 
&
Video 
1.1 Establish planning framework for the ENPM 
1.2 Assess modeling requirements and conceptual frameworks 
(simulation, optimization, multi-criteria analytical tools) 
1. Identify 
Decision 
Support 
System 
Framework 
1.3 Assess data and feedback requirements and links to knowledge 
base and structured stakeholder interaction 
2.1 Review, fine-tune, calibrate, and validate modeling system 
2.2 Undertake Simulation runs (with appropriate knowledge base 
links) and discuss with potential users  
2.3 Test and Apply the Basin Simulation Models 
2. Fine-Tune 
&
Apply 
Basin 
Simulation 
System (based 
on NBI DSS 
tools) 
2.4 Conduct Training and Produce/Enhance Documentation (reports, 
manuals, tutorials, initial set of simulation results) 
3.1 Formulate the optimization problems (with appropriate  
objectives, constraints and decision variables) 
3.2 Develop Optimization demos (with appropriate knowledge base 
links) and discuss with potential users 
3.3 Develop Basin Optimization System (building on NB DSS tools) 
2. Modeling 
System 
Development 
C
a
l
i
b
r
a
t
e
d
a
n
d
V
a
l
i
d
a
t
e
d
E
a
s
t
e
r
n
N
i
l
e
P
l
a
n
n
i
n
g
M
o
d
e
l
3. Develop 
and 
Implement 
Basin 
Optimization 
System  
3.4 Conduct Training and Produce Documentation (reports, manuals, 
initial set of optimization results) 
Page  29
25
Component 
Outcome 
Outputs 
Activities 
4.1 Develop multiple criteria and indicators to compare scenarios 
(e.g. across economic, environmental and social dimensions) 
4.2 Develop/Refine multi-criteria analytical tool Demos to compare 
scenarios across criteria and present the results visually 
4. Develop 
Multicriteria 
Analytical 
Tools 
4.3 Apply multi-criteria analytical tools to compare scenarios across 
criteria and present the results visually 
5.1 Define and develop output products/interfaces 
5.2 Develop Public Domain Analytical Tools 
 
5. Define and 
Develop 
Standard 
System 
Output 
5.3 Develop Sample Investment Plans using the ENPM system 
1.1 Identify key stakeholder groups for ENPM interaction 
1.2 Design a structured stakeholder interaction framework for the 
ENPM 
1. Facilitate 
Structured 
Stakeholder 
Interaction 
1.3 Faciltiate interactions according to the framework and evolving 
needs 
2.1 Establish and maintain ENPM Modeling Office 
2.2 Establish and develop Focal Point Institutions and Model 
Coordinating Units in each EN country 
2.3 Develop and maintain National Model Support Networks 
2.4 Develop protocols (rules) for ENPM Institutional 
Structures/Settings 
2.5 Develop strategic partnerships (including internships, 
partnerships with academia) to improve ENPM effectiveness 
2. Establish 
and Develop 
ENPM 
Institutional 
Setting/ 
Structures 
2.5 Coordinate with other NBI Projects and Activities 
3.1 Develop and implement robust training program on development 
and use of ENPM Modeling System 
3.2 Develop and institutionalize procedures/processes for 
encouraging an enabling environment for model development 
and use (incl. regular ENPM newsletters) 
3.3 Develop framework for institutional incentives for retention of 
trained staff 
3.4 Develop framework for sustainable financial resources 
3. Strengthen 
Institutional 
and Human 
Capacity  
3.5 Develop and implement a practical ENPM monitoring and 
evaluation system 
4.1 Establish common guidelines for enhancing data availability, 
accessibility, and quality 
4.2 Improve data availability, accessibility, and quality activities. 
3. Institutional 
and Human 
Capacity 
Strengthening 
A
c
c
e
p
t
a
n
c
e
o
f
E
N
P
M
a
s
a
s
h
a
r
e
d
a
n
a
l
y
t
i
c
a
l
f
r
a
m
e
w
o
r
k
t
o
a
n
a
l
y
z
e
E
N
i
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
s
4. Strengthen 
Data 
Availability, 
Accessibility, 
and Quality 
4.3 Capacity building for data collection and interpretation. 
3. The initial ENPM system will be somewhat rudimentary, at the pre-
feasibility/reconnaissance level of sophistication.  The system should initially have the 
capability to better inform decisions and avoid major problems.  The key features of the 
ENPM system are described next. 
 
Page  30
26
Component A: Knowledge Base Development 
 
4.  The heart of ENPM will be an integrated database system that will organize available 
data related to the Eastern Nile network, current infrastructure (e.g. storage, major 
diversions, uses including irrigation, municipal, hydropower, environment, etc.) and 
current operations, climate, flows, basin land use/land cover, soils, erosion/siltation, 
satellite imagery, potential investment options and their characteristics, etc.  The 
knowledge base will draw as much as possible on available information (e.g. One-System 
Inventories at ENTRO, Master plans, reports, etc.).  The knowledge base will be designed 
to be used both in a stand-alone model (e.g. for pre-customized and interactive queries on 
the database and to visualize the results in tabular, graphical, schematic or map-based 
formats) as well as in conjunction with various simulation and optimization models (to 
provide information for the model runs and to store results).  The Knowledge base 
developed will provide a shared, synoptic view of the Eastern Nile basins, including its 
opportunities and risks as viewed from an economic, environmental and social 
perspective.  The development of this knowledge base will involve: 
·
Reviewing existing data and data needs assessment 
·
Designing database structure (to house relevant spatial and non-spatial information) 
·
Synergizing information sharing protocols and database arrangements with the Nile DSS 
·
Populating and quality checking the database (including the development of a synoptic GIS 
database with available information from the one-system inventory, global/regional datasets on 
topography, soils, precipitation, satellite imagery, etc., and other information to be computerized 
as part of this effort) as indicated in the following table.  Special focus will be paid to water 
systems information and characteristics of existing and proposed projects (to the extent known) 
·
Developing user-friendly data management interfaces (for query & models) and data analysis 
tools 
·
Establishing strategies to address knowledge gaps and manage quality 
·
Documenting, Training and improving Awareness (including development of a 
website/CDs/DVDs, State of the Eastern Nile Report, pilots using handheld computers, etc.) 
 
5. 
The functional specifications for the ENPM knowledge base should include: 
Functional Specifications of the Knowledge Base 
The Knowledge Base should have: 
ƒ
Spatial data that is GIS-based (exportable to other GIS systems and PDAs with GIS capability) 
ƒ
Interactive queries; Well-designed reports 
ƒ
Extensive use of graphics (e.g. charts, schematics, maps) in presenting knowledge base information 
ƒ
Export/Import from common formats (e.g. spreadsheets, images, text, etc.) and to interface with models 
being developed and other dissemination tools (e.g. free GIS, Google Earth or equivalent, etc.) 
ƒ
Ability to display time-series and spatial information at location with stored information (e.g.  climate, 
hydrology, infrastructure, reservoir data, etc.)
 
ƒ
Ability to delineate watershed/basin at any point on the EN rivers
 
ƒ
Ability to delineate inundated area for any height of reservoir at any location 
ƒ
Ability to flag potentially erroneous data; Methodologies to fill data gaps 
ƒ
Ability to combine information from, and output information to, various temporal and spatial scales 
6. 
It is expected that the knowledge base itself will be a useful tool for decision-support and 
stakeholder awareness and interaction.  It is expected that the ENPM would gradually 
become the focal point for water-related data and information on the Eastern Nile, with 
data collected by various national and regional agencies being collated in the ENPM 
knowledge base.  In addition to the queries/analysis, the information and maps would be 
used to generate products such as the State of the Eastern Nile report to be supported 
under the ENPM.  These would build on the existing EN One System Inventory and other 
Page  31
27
ongoing activities, such as the Joint Multipurpose Project related activities.  Information 
in the public domain is also expected to improve with ENPM support.
Page  32
2
8
I
n
d
i
c
a
t
i
v
e
S
p
a
t
i
a
l
D
a
t
a
b
a
s
e
(
b
u
i
l
d
i
n
g
o
n
t
h
e
O
n
e
-
S
y
s
t
e
m
I
n
v
e
n
t
o
r
y
t
h
a
t
h
a
s
a
l
r
e
a
d
y
c
o
l
l
a
t
e
d
m
u
c
h
o
f
t
h
i
s
i
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
)
T
y
p
e
S
p
a
t
i
a
l
R
e
f
e
r
e
n
c
e
(
a
t
1
:
5
0
,
0
0
0
s
c
a
l
e
o
r
b
e
t
t
e
r
w
h
e
r
e
v
e
r
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
e
)
A
t
t
r
i
b
u
t
e
s
A
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
i
v
e
·
A
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
i
v
e
u
n
i
t
s
·
C
i
t
i
e
s
/
T
o
w
n
s
·
V
i
l
l
a
g
e
s
·
U
n
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
i
e
s
/
S
c
h
o
o
l
s
/
R
e
s
e
a
r
c
h
C
e
n
t
e
r
s
/
N
G
O
s
/
W
a
t
e
r
U
s
e
r
A
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
i
o
n
s
·
C
e
n
s
u
s
d
a
t
a
(
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
t
i
m
e
s
e
r
i
e
s
o
n
p
o
p
u
l
a
t
i
o
n
,
t
r
i
b
e
s
,
l
i
t
e
r
a
c
y
,
e
m
p
l
o
y
m
e
n
t
/
s
o
c
i
o
-
e
c
o
n
o
m
i
c
/
l
a
b
o
u
r
c
h
a
r
a
c
t
e
r
i
s
t
i
c
s
,
e
t
c
.
)
·
P
o
v
e
r
t
y
c
h
a
r
a
c
t
e
r
i
s
t
i
c
s
·
C
u
r
r
e
n
t
s
e
r
v
i
c
e
l
e
v
e
l
s
(
e
.
g
.
e
l
e
c
t
r
i
c
i
t
y
,
w
a
t
e
r
s
u
p
p
l
y
,
s
a
n
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
)
·
T
y
p
e
(
p
u
b
l
i
c
/
p
r
i
v
a
t
e
;
s
p
e
c
i
a
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
)
;
#
s
t
u
d
e
n
t
s
,
#
f
a
c
u
l
t
y
·
M
a
j
o
r
a
c
t
i
v
i
t
i
e
s
r
e
l
a
t
e
d
t
o
E
N
w
a
t
e
r
s
C
l
i
m
a
t
e
&
H
y
d
r
o
l
o
g
y
·
I
s
o
h
y
e
t
s
/
I
s
o
t
h
e
r
m
s
b
y
m
o
n
t
h
a
n
d
a
n
n
u
a
l
a
v
g
.
f
o
r
a
l
l
y
e
a
r
s
o
f
r
e
c
o
r
d
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
l
e
·
B
a
s
i
n
,
S
u
b
b
a
s
i
n
/
c
a
t
c
h
m
e
n
t
b
o
u
n
d
a
r
i
e
s
·
R
i
v
e
r
/
s
t
r
e
a
m
n
e
t
w
o
r
k
·
R
a
i
n
g
u
a
g
e
/
C
l
i
m
a
t
e
s
t
a
t
i
o
n
s
·
F
l
o
o
d
h
a
z
a
r
d
m
a
p
p
i
n
g
·
D
r
o
u
g
h
t
-
a
f
f
e
c
t
e
d
a
r
e
a
s
·
C
l
i
m
a
t
e
c
h
a
n
g
e
g
r
i
d
s
–
f
o
r
s
c
e
n
a
r
i
o
s
a
n
d
i
m
p
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
s
(
e
.
g
.
o
n
p
r
e
c
i
p
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
,
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
,
r
u
n
o
f
f
)
·
R
a
i
n
f
a
l
l
,
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
,
e
v
a
p
o
r
a
t
i
o
n
,
c
l
i
m
a
t
e
c
h
a
n
g
e
s
c
e
n
a
r
i
o
s
·
R
u
n
o
f
f
,
i
n
f
i
l
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
,
e
v
a
p
o
t
r
a
n
s
p
i
r
a
t
i
o
n
,
c
o
n
s
u
m
p
t
i
v
e
u
s
e
e
s
t
i
m
a
t
i
o
n
·
F
l
o
w
s
(
t
i
m
e
s
e
r
i
e
s
,
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
a
v
e
r
a
g
e
s
,
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
f
l
o
w
s
a
t
2
5
%
,
5
0
%
,
7
5
%
a
n
d
9
0
%
r
e
l
i
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
,
d
a
i
l
y
f
l
o
w
s
f
o
r
l
a
s
t
y
e
a
r
a
n
d
o
n
e
d
r
y
,
o
n
e
w
e
t
a
n
d
o
n
e
n
o
r
m
a
l
y
e
a
r
i
n
p
e
r
i
o
d
o
f
r
e
c
o
r
d
)
·
G
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
c
h
a
r
a
c
t
e
r
i
s
t
i
c
s
(
d
e
p
t
h
t
o
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
,
s
u
s
t
a
i
n
a
b
l
e
y
i
e
l
d
s
,
c
u
r
r
e
n
t
e
x
t
r
a
c
t
i
o
n
,
w
e
l
l
t
y
p
e
a
n
d
d
i
s
t
r
i
b
u
t
i
o
n
,
e
t
c
.
)
·
C
h
a
r
a
c
t
e
r
i
s
t
i
c
s
o
f
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
s
t
a
t
i
o
n
s
(
p
e
r
i
o
d
o
f
r
e
c
o
r
d
,
t
i
m
e
s
e
r
i
e
s
o
f
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
s
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
d
)
·
B
a
s
i
n
/
S
u
b
-
b
a
s
i
n
r
u
n
o
f
f
c
h
a
r
a
c
t
e
r
i
s
t
i
c
s
·
S
p
a
t
i
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
b
a
l
a
n
c
e
e
s
t
i
m
a
t
i
o
n
(
i
n
f
l
o
w
s
,
u
s
e
s
,
l
o
s
s
e
s
,
r
e
c
y
c
l
e
d
w
a
t
e
r
,
e
t
c
.
)
·
F
l
o
o
d
p
l
a
i
n
m
a
p
c
o
n
t
o
u
r
s
f
o
r
v
a
r
i
o
u
s
r
e
t
u
r
n
p
e
r
i
o
d
s
·
O
t
h
e
r
n
a
t
u
r
a
l
d
i
s
a
s
t
e
r
v
u
l
n
e
r
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
(
f
l
o
o
d
s
,
d
r
o
u
g
h
t
s
)
·
L
o
n
i
t
u
d
i
n
a
l
s
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
/
C
r
o
s
s
S
e
c
t
i
o
n
s
o
f
r
i
v
e
r
s
W
a
t
e
r
-
r
e
l
a
t
e
d
S
t
r
u
c
t
u
r
e
s
·
D
a
m
s
/
B
a
r
r
a
g
e
s
/
O
t
h
e
r
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
·
C
a
n
a
l
n
e
t
w
o
r
k
(
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
m
i
n
o
r
l
e
v
e
l
)
·
I
r
r
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
/
D
r
a
i
n
a
g
e
n
e
t
w
o
r
k
s
·
D
a
t
a
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
n
e
t
w
o
r
k
s
·
C
a
n
a
l
c
o
m
m
a
n
d
a
r
e
a
s
·
C
r
o
p
p
e
d
a
r
e
a
s
·
E
x
i
s
t
i
n
g
a
n
d
p
r
o
p
o
s
e
d
r
e
s
e
r
v
o
i
r
s
·
F
u
n
c
t
i
o
n
a
l
i
r
r
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
,
f
l
o
o
d
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
a
n
d
m
u
l
t
i
p
u
r
p
o
s
e
i
r
r
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
s
c
h
e
m
e
s
·
H
y
d
r
o
p
o
w
e
r
s
c
h
e
m
e
s
(
i
n
c
l
.
R
u
n
o
f
r
i
v
e
r
s
c
h
e
m
e
s
)
–
e
x
i
s
t
i
n
g
a
n
d
p
r
o
p
o
s
e
d
·
L
i
f
t
i
r
r
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
/
p
u
m
p
c
a
n
a
l
s
c
h
e
m
e
s
·
D
r
i
p
/
S
p
r
i
n
k
e
r
i
r
r
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
s
y
s
t
e
m
p
i
l
o
t
s
·
W
a
t
e
r
s
u
p
p
l
y
i
n
t
a
k
e
s
t
r
u
c
t
u
r
e
s
·
W
a
t
e
r
s
h
e
d
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
p
r
o
g
r
a
m
i
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
s
·
C
h
a
r
a
c
t
e
r
i
s
t
i
c
s
o
f
s
t
r
u
c
t
u
r
e
s
(
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
y
r
o
f
c
o
n
s
t
r
u
c
t
i
o
n
,
c
o
s
t
,
s
a
f
e
t
y
,
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
a
s
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
l
e
)
·
D
a
t
a
f
r
o
m
d
a
t
a
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
n
e
t
w
o
r
k
s
·
T
i
m
e
s
e
r
i
e
s
o
f
f
l
o
w
s
(
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
a
v
e
r
a
g
e
s
,
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
f
l
o
w
s
a
t
2
5
%
,
5
0
%
,
7
5
%
a
n
d
9
0
%
r
e
l
i
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
,
d
a
i
l
y
f
l
o
w
s
f
o
r
l
a
s
t
y
e
a
r
a
n
d
o
n
e
d
r
y
,
o
n
e
w
e
t
a
n
d
o
n
e
n
o
r
m
a
l
y
e
a
r
i
n
p
e
r
i
o
d
o
f
r
e
c
o
r
d
)
·
S
t
o
r
a
g
e
c
h
a
r
a
c
t
e
r
i
s
t
i
c
s
(
p
r
i
m
a
r
y
p
u
r
p
o
s
e
,
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
-
l
i
v
e
/
d
e
a
d
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
,
a
r
e
a
-
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
,
d
e
p
t
h
-
s
t
o
r
a
g
e
c
u
r
v
e
s
,
s
e
d
i
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
r
a
t
e
,
o
p
e
r
a
t
i
n
g
r
u
l
e
s
,
h
i
s
t
o
r
i
c
a
l
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
i
n
f
l
o
w
s
,
l
e
v
e
l
s
,
a
n
d
r
e
l
e
a
s
e
s
;
f
i
s
h
e
r
i
e
s
d
a
t
a
)
·
H
y
d
r
o
p
o
w
e
r
c
h
a
r
a
c
t
e
r
i
s
t
i
c
s
(
i
n
s
t
a
l
l
e
d
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
,
h
e
a
d
,
d
i
s
c
h
a
r
g
e
,
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
,
p
r
i
c
e
,
l
o
a
d
f
a
c
t
o
r
,
f
a
c
t
o
r
o
f
u
t
i
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
)
·
I
r
r
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
a
p
p
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
e
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
c
i
e
s
,
c
o
n
v
e
y
a
n
c
e
e
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
c
i
e
s
e
s
t
i
m
a
t
i
o
n
·
W
a
t
e
r
i
n
t
a
k
e
e
s
t
i
m
a
t
e
s
·
A
r
e
a
o
f
d
i
f
f
e
r
e
n
t
t
y
p
e
s
o
f
w
a
t
e
r
s
h
e
d
i
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
s
(
a
f
f
o
r
e
s
t
a
t
i
o
n
,
f
i
e
l
d
b
u
n
d
s
,
c
h
e
c
k
d
a
m
s
,
g
u
l
l
y
p
l
u
g
s
,
e
t
c
.
)
–
u
n
i
t
c
o
s
t
s
/
e
m
p
l
o
y
m
e
n
t
/
l
i
v
e
l
i
h
o
o
d
Page  33
2
9
c
h
a
n
g
e
s
,
e
r
o
s
i
o
n
/
s
e
d
i
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
c
h
a
n
g
e
s
d
u
e
t
o
i
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
s
O
t
h
e
r
I
n
f
r
a
s
t
r
u
c
t
u
r
e
·
T
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
(
a
i
r
p
o
r
t
s
,
r
a
i
l
,
r
o
a
d
s
,
p
o
r
t
s
,
n
a
v
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
)
·
P
o
w
e
r
t
r
a
n
s
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
/
i
n
t
e
r
c
o
n
n
e
c
t
i
o
n
·
N
o
n
-
h
y
d
r
o
p
o
w
e
r
p
l
a
n
t
s
(
i
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
o
t
h
e
r
r
e
n
e
w
a
b
l
e
e
n
e
r
g
y
s
y
s
t
e
m
s
)
·
I
n
f
o
r
m
a
t
i
o
n
/
C
o
m
m
u
n
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
·
T
y
p
e
o
f
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
i
n
f
r
a
s
t
r
u
c
t
u
r
e
(
e
.
g
.
h
i
g
h
w
a
y
,
r
u
r
a
l
r
o
a
d
,
e
t
c
.
)
·
T
r
a
n
s
m
i
s
s
i
o
n
c
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
,
a
g
e
,
l
o
s
s
e
s
,
s
t
a
t
u
s
·
P
o
w
e
r
t
r
a
d
e
·
I
n
s
t
a
l
l
e
d
C
a
p
a
c
i
t
y
(
M
W
)
,
P
o
w
e
r
g
e
n
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
(
M
W
h
)
·
M
o
b
i
l
e
/
L
a
n
d
P
h
o
n
e
&
I
n
t
e
r
n
e
t
c
o
n
n
e
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
·
F
i
b
r
e
o
p
t
i
c
s
c
o
n
n
e
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
E
c
o
n
o
m
y
·
A
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
i
v
e
b
o
u
n
d
a
r
y
·
T
o
u
r
i
s
t
a
r
e
a
s
·
G
D
P
(
t
r
e
n
d
s
,
c
o
m
p
o
s
i
t
i
o
n
,
g
r
o
w
t
h
)
·
T
r
a
d
e
(
d
o
m
e
s
t
i
c
,
E
N
r
e
g
i
o
n
a
l
,
o
t
h
e
r
)
·
M
a
j
o
r
e
x
p
o
r
t
s
/
i
m
p
o
r
t
s
/
s
e
r
v
i
c
e
s
(
a
n
d
t
r
e
n
d
s
)
·
I
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
s
(
e
.
g
.
F
o
r
e
i
g
n
D
i
r
e
c
t
I
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
,
E
N
r
e
g
i
o
n
a
l
,
e
t
c
.
)
·
P
u
b
l
i
c
s
p
e
n
d
i
n
g
i
n
d
i
f
f
e
r
e
n
t
s
e
c
t
o
r
s
(
a
n
d
t
r
e
n
d
s
)
·
A
c
c
e
s
s
t
o
c
r
e
d
i
t
·
I
n
v
e
s
t
m
e
n
t
c
l
i
m
a
t
e
i
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
s
·
T
o
u
r
i
s
t
f
l
o
w
s
(
l
o
c
a
l
,
E
N
r
e
g
i
o
n
a
l
,
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
)
·
C
o
n
s
u
m
p
t
i
o
n
/
S
a
v
i
n
g
s
i
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
s
·
R
e
m
i
t
t
a
n
c
e
s
f
r
o
m
a
b
r
o
a
d
·
P
r
i
c
e
s
/
T
a
r
i
f
f
s
t
r
u
c
t
u
r
e
s
(
e
.
g
.
f
o
r
w
a
t
e
r
s
u
p
p
l
y
,
i
r
r
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
,
e
t
c
.
)
L
a
n
d
-
r
e
l
a
t
e
d
·
L
a
n
d
c
o
v
e
r
/
l
a
n
d
u
s
e
p
a
t
t
e
r
n
s
(
i
n
c
l
.
U
r
b
a
n
,
p
e
r
i
-
u
r
b
a
n
,
a
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
a
l
,
i
r
r
i
g
a
t
e
d
,
f
o
r
e
s
t
e
d
,
w
e
t
l
a
n
d
,
w
a
t
e
r
l
o
g
g
e
d
,
s
o
d
i
c
,
s
a
l
i
n
e
,
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
a
r
e
a
s
)
–
u
s
i
n
g
e
x
i
s
t
i
n
g
m
a
p
s
a
n
d
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
r
e
m
o
t
e
s
e
n
s
i
n
g
·
S
o
i
l
t
y
p
e
·
T
o
p
o
g
r
a
p
h
y
/
E
l
e
v
a
t
i
o
n
(
C
o
n
t
o
u
r
s
/
D
E
M
)
·
P
o
t
e
n
t
i
a
l
a
r
e
a
s
f
o
r
w
a
t
e
r
s
h
e
d
/
i
n
f
i
l
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
s
i
l
t
a
t
i
o
n
/
r
e
c
h
a
r
g
e
·
A
r
e
a
s
(
c
u
r
r
e
n
t
a
n
d
t
r
e
n
d
s
w
h
e
r
e
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
l
e
)
·
S
o
i
l
c
h
a
r
a
c
t
e
r
i
s
t
i
c
s
·
E
l
e
v
a
t
i
o
n
s
·
W
a
t
e
r
s
h
e
d
A
u
d
i
t
·
D
e
f
o
r
e
s
t
a
t
i
o
n
/
a
f
f
o
r
e
s
t
a
t
i
o
n
·
E
r
o
s
i
o
n
/
s
e
d
i
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
r
a
t
e
s
·
G
e
o
l
o
g
i
c
t
y
p
e
s
/
c
h
a
r
a
c
t
e
r
i
s
t
i
c
s
·
A
n
y
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
-
l
e
v
e
l
d
a
t
a
·
A
v
g
.
s
o
i
l
m
o
i
s
t
u
r
e
l
e
v
e
l
s
(
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
)
·
S
p
a
t
i
a
l
e
v
a
p
o
r
a
t
i
o
n
e
s
t
i
m
a
t
e
s
A
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
e
(
r
e
g
i
o
n
-
w
i
d
e
w
i
t
h
d
e
t
a
i
l
e
d
d
a
t
a
f
o
r
e
a
c
h
b
a
s
i
n
/
c
o
m
m
a
n
d
a
r
e
a
a
s
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
l
e
)
·
I
r
r
i
g
a
t
e
d
a
r
e
a
s
(
c
o
m
m
e
r
c
i
a
l
a
n
d
s
u
b
s
i
s
t
e
n
c
e
;
p
u
m
p
&
g
r
a
v
i
t
y
)
·
R
a
i
n
f
e
d
a
r
e
a
s
·
R
e
c
e
s
s
i
o
n
a
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
e
·
C
r
o
p
p
i
n
g
p
a
t
t
e
r
n
s
·
F
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
/
P
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
/
o
t
h
e
r
a
g
r
o
c
h
e
m
i
c
a
l
u
s
e
·
C
r
o
p
p
e
d
a
r
e
a
s
b
y
s
e
a
s
o
n
a
n
d
s
o
u
r
c
e
o
f
i
r
r
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
–
c
u
r
r
e
n
t
a
n
d
h
i
s
t
o
r
i
c
a
l
t
r
e
n
d
s
·
C
r
o
p
y
i
e
l
d
s
/
C
r
o
p
w
a
t
e
r
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
·
M
a
j
o
r
a
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
e
m
a
r
k
e
t
s
/
A
v
g
.
M
a
r
k
e
t
P
r
i
c
e
s
·
O
r
g
a
n
i
c
a
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
e
·
D
i
s
t
r
i
b
u
t
i
o
n
o
f
i
n
d
i
g
e
n
o
u
s
a
n
d
m
e
d
i
c
i
n
a
l
c
r
o
p
s
·
A
g
r
i
c
u
l
t
u
r
e
v
a
l
u
e
-
a
d
d
e
d
·
F
e
r
t
i
l
i
z
e
r
/
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
u
s
e
,
p
r
i
c
e
s
,
t
r
e
n
d
s
·
I
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
e
d
p
e
s
t
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
/
i
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
e
d
n
u
t
r
i
e
n
t
m
a
n
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
u
s
e
·
C
r
o
p
s
u
i
t
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
(
e
.
g
.
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
i
n
t
e
r
p
r
e
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
s
o
i
l
,
c
l
i
m
a
t
e
,
l
a
n
d
d
a
t
a
)
·
S
p
a
t
i
a
l
l
y
d
i
s
t
r
i
b
u
t
e
d
f
a
r
m
b
u
d
g
e
t
c
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
e
s
t
i
m
a
t
i
o
n
(
b
y
s
e
a
s
o
n
,
c
r
o
p
Page  34
3
0
a
n
d
t
y
p
e
o
f
i
r
r
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
)
E
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
o
t
h
e
r
w
a
t
e
r
u
s
e
s
(
u
s
i
n
g
s
e
c
o
n
d
a
r
y
d
a
t
a
f
r
o
m
v
a
r
i
o
u
s
d
e
p
a
r
t
m
e
n
t
s
/
e
n
v
a
s
s
e
s
s
m
e
n
t
s
)
–
e
a
c
h
b
a
s
i
n
·
E
c
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
l
y
s
e
n
s
i
t
i
v
e
a
r
e
a
s
·
P
r
o
t
e
c
t
e
d
a
r
e
a
s
·
B
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
·
I
n
d
u
s
t
r
i
a
l
l
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
(
f
o
r
a
l
l
m
a
j
o
r
i
n
d
u
s
t
r
i
e
s
a
n
d
b
l
o
c
k
-
l
e
v
e
l
s
u
m
m
a
r
i
e
s
f
o
r
o
t
h
e
r
i
n
d
u
s
t
r
i
e
s
)
·
W
a
t
e
r
q
u
a
l
i
t
y
m
o
n
i
t
o
r
i
n
g
s
i
t
e
s
·
I
n
-
s
t
r
e
a
m
a
n
d
r
e
c
r
e
a
t
i
o
n
u
s
e
–
k
e
y
l
o
c
a
t
i
o
n
s
·
W
e
t
l
a
n
d
s
(
w
a
t
e
r
-
s
p
r
e
a
d
a
r
e
a
s
w
i
t
h
s
e
a
s
o
n
a
l
v
a
r
i
a
t
i
o
n
s
)
·
B
i
o
d
i
v
e
r
s
i
t
y
a
n
d
f
i
s
h
e
r
i
e
s
i
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
s
·
I
n
d
u
s
t
r
y
t
y
p
e
a
n
d
c
l
a
s
s
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
·
I
n
d
u
s
t
r
i
a
l
/
p
o
w
e
r
w
a
t
e
r
u
s
e
(
f
r
o
m
r
e
c
o
r
d
s
o
r
e
s
t
i
m
a
t
e
d
b
y
p
r
o
x
y
i
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
s
)
a
n
d
r
e
t
u
r
n
f
l
o
w
s
·
I
n
d
u
s
t
r
i
a
l
w
a
t
e
r
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
e
s
t
i
m
a
t
e
s
·
I
n
d
u
s
t
r
i
a
l
p
o
l
l
u
t
i
o
n
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
c
o
s
t
e
s
t
i
m
a
t
e
s
·
I
n
d
u
s
t
r
i
a
l
v
a
l
u
e
-
a
d
d
e
d
e
s
t
i
m
a
t
e
s
·
W
a
t
e
r
q
u
a
l
i
t
y
f
o
r
k
e
y
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
s
–
c
u
r
r
e
n
t
s
t
a
t
u
s
a
n
d
t
r
e
n
d
s
(
e
.
g
.
d
i
s
s
o
l
v
e
d
o
x
y
g
e
n
,
B
O
D
,
C
O
D
,
t
e
m
p
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
,
p
H
,
d
i
s
s
o
l
v
e
d
s
o
l
i
d
s
,
s
u
s
p
e
n
d
e
d
m
a
t
t
e
r
,
n
i
t
r
o
g
e
n
/
n
i
t
r
a
t
e
s
,
h
e
a
v
y
m
e
t
a
l
s
,
p
e
s
t
i
c
i
d
e
s
,
t
o
x
i
c
s
,
t
o
t
a
l
a
n
d
f
e
c
a
l
c
o
l
i
f
o
r
m
s
,
o
i
l
s
,
f
l
o
a
t
i
n
g
w
a
s
t
e
s
,
e
t
c
.
)
·
I
n
-
s
t
r
e
a
m
w
a
t
e
r
u
s
e
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
e
s
t
i
m
a
t
i
o
n
(
e
.
g
.
f
o
r
e
c
o
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
/
w
e
t
l
a
n
d
,
c
o
m
m
u
n
i
t
y
u
s
e
,
w
a
s
h
i
n
g
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
,
f
i
s
h
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
,
n
a
v
i
g
a
t
i
o
n
,
r
e
c
r
e
a
t
i
o
n
,
e
t
c
.
)
·
P
e
r
s
i
s
t
e
n
t
o
r
g
a
n
i
c
p
o
l
l
u
t
a
n
t
u
s
e
G
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
(
b
y
a
q
u
i
f
e
r
/
b
a
s
i
n
)
·
G
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
a
q
u
i
f
e
r
d
e
t
a
i
l
s
a
n
d
e
x
i
s
t
i
n
g
f
e
n
c
e
d
i
a
g
r
a
m
s
,
l
i
t
h
o
l
o
g
y
,
d
e
p
t
h
t
o
w
a
t
e
r
c
o
n
t
o
u
r
s
(
f
o
r
a
l
l
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
l
e
d
a
t
a
f
o
r
t
h
e
l
a
s
t
1
0
y
e
a
r
s
)
·
P
u
b
l
i
c
&
P
r
i
v
a
t
e
T
u
b
e
w
e
l
l
s
·
G
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
B
l
o
c
k
c
l
a
s
s
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
·
G
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
q
u
a
l
i
t
y
m
e
a
s
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
s
t
r
u
c
t
u
r
e
s
·
K
e
y
a
q
u
i
f
e
r
a
r
e
a
s
,
U
s
e
s
,
S
u
s
t
a
i
n
a
b
l
e
y
i
e
l
d
s
·
P
u
m
p
t
y
p
e
(
d
i
e
s
e
l
/
e
l
e
c
t
r
i
c
;
d
e
e
p
/
s
h
a
l
l
o
w
,
p
r
i
v
a
t
e
/
p
u
b
l
i
c
,
H
P
)
·
E
s
t
i
m
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
a
c
t
u
a
l
e
x
t
r
a
c
t
i
o
n
r
a
t
e
s
,
c
o
m
m
a
n
d
e
d
a
r
e
a
,
a
v
g
a
r
e
a
i
r
r
i
g
a
t
e
d
·
G
W
c
l
a
s
s
i
f
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
h
i
s
t
o
r
y
,
D
e
p
t
h
t
o
g
r
o
u
n
d
w
a
t
e
r
,
G
r
o
u
n
d
e
l
e
v
a
t
i
o
n
·
W
a
t
e
r
q
u
a
l
i
t
y
p
a
r
a
m
e
t
e
r
s
(
a
l
s
o
i
n
c
l
.
h
a
r
d
n
e
s
s
,
f
l
u
o
r
i
d
e
,
e
t
c
.
)
·
P
u
m
p
t
e
s
t
r
e
s
u
l
t
s
S
o
c
i
a
l
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
·
A
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
i
v
e
b
o
u
n
d
a
r
i
e
s
·
T
r
i
b
a
l
d
i
s
t
r
i
b
u
t
i
o
n
·
B
o
u
n
d
a
r
i
e
s
o
f
S
o
c
i
a
l
I
n
s
t
i
t
u
t
i
o
n
s
(
e
.
g
.
U
s
e
r
A
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
i
o
n
s
,
C
i
v
i
l
S
o
c
i
e
t
y
O
r
g
a
n
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
s
,
L
o
c
a
l
G
o
v
e
r
n
m
e
n
t
s
)
·
H
o
u
s
e
h
o
l
d
s
·
K
e
y
s
t
a
k
e
h
o
l
d
e
r
s
a
n
d
c
h
a
r
a
c
t
e
r
i
s
t
i
c
s
·
A
c
c
e
s
s
t
o
s
a
f
e
w
a
t
e
r
,
A
c
c
e
s
s
t
o
a
d
e
q
u
a
t
e
s
a
n
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
·
P
e
r
c
a
p
i
t
a
w
a
t
e
r
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
(
a
l
t
h
o
u
g
h
t
h
i
s
n
e
e
d
s
t
o
b
e
u
s
e
d
c
a
r
e
f
u
l
l
y
)
·
P
o
v
e
r
t
y
l
e
v
e
l
s
a
n
d
t
r
e
n
d
s
,
I
n
c
o
m
e
d
i
s
t
r
i
b
u
t
i
o
n
,
e
m
p
o
w
e
r
m
e
n
t
i
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
s
·
L
i
f
e
e
x
p
e
c
t
a
n
c
y
,
P
u
b
l
i
c
h
e
a
l
t
h
·
S
o
c
i
o
-
e
c
o
n
o
m
i
c
a
n
d
d
e
m
o
g
r
a
p
h
i
c
c
h
a
r
a
c
t
e
r
i
s
t
i
c
s
·
O
v
e
r
a
l
l
e
c
o
n
o
m
y
,
E
q
u
i
t
y
,
G
I
N
I
C
o
e
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
t
s
,
e
t
c
.
·
D
e
c
e
n
t
r
a
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
(
i
n
c
l
.
f
i
s
c
a
l
d
e
c
e
n
t
r
a
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
)
·
L
i
v
e
l
i
h
o
o
d
s
,
o
c
c
u
p
a
t
i
o
n
s
,
e
m
p
l
o
y
m
e
n
t
/
u
n
e
m
p
l
o
y
m
e
n
t
·
L
i
t
e
r
a
c
y
/
e
d
u
c
a
t
i
o
n
l
e
v
e
l
s
,
A
g
e
d
i
s
t
r
i
b
u
t
i
o
n
·
R
e
s
e
t
t
l
e
m
e
n
t
/
R
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
a
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
e
d
w
i
t
h
p
r
o
j
e
c
t
s
·
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
t
i
o
n
n
o
t
e
s
,
L
o
c
a
l
p
r
i
o
r
i
t
i
e
s
,
L
o
c
a
l
g
o
v
e
r
n
a
n
c
e
i
n
d
i
c
a
t
o
r
s
·
S
e
l
f
-
h
e
l
p
g
r
o
u
p
s
,
w
o
m
e
n
’
s
g
r
o
u
p
s
,
u
s
e
r
a
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
i
o
n
s
·
T
r
i
b
a
l
p
o
p
u
l
a
t
i
o
n
s
,
C
u
l
t
u
r
a
l
h
e
r
i
t
a
g
e
,
c
u
l
t
u
r
a
l
p
r
o
p
e
r
t
y
D
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
/
O
t
h
e
r
·
F
o
c
u
s
o
f
D
o
c
u
m
e
n
t
s
·
E
l
e
c
t
r
o
n
i
c
a
r
c
h
i
v
e
s
o
f
p
h
o
t
o
g
r
a
p
h
s
,
r
e
p
o
r
t
s
,
w
o
r
k
s
h
o
p
/
c
o
n
f
e
r
e
n
c
e
p
r
o
c
e
e
d
i
n
g
s
,
t
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
s
,
e
t
c
.
·
L
i
n
k
a
g
e
s
w
i
t
h
i
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
d
a
t
a
s
e
t
s
/
l
i
b
r
a
r
i
e
s
/
w
e
b
l
i
n
k
s
,
e
t
c
.
Page  35
31
 
Component B: Modeling System Development 
 
7.  The ENPM Modeling System will include a suite of hydrologic and evaluative models and 
analytical tools.  The Models would build upon prior modeling efforts such as the Nile-DST, 
RAPSO, GAMS models and other tools, and will draw heavily on the knowledge base and tools 
developed under the Nile Basin DSS under development. 
8. Initially, 
a 
Strategic Planning Framework
 will be developed for the Eastern Nile.  This includes 
developing a 
vision
 of the future, identification of a structure to outline 
objectives
 (to evaluate 
alternative investment scenarios), 
issues
 (to identify opportunities and constraints), 
options
 (to 
explore investment possibilities), 
scenarios
 (future perspectives and option groupings), and key 
questions
 to be considered 
–
customized for each of the Plans.   It is crucial that this planning 
framework is based both on expert/analytical and stakeholder inputs.  It is also important that this 
framework is customized for each of the sub-basins of the Eastern Nile.  This planning 
framework is expected to help provide the analytical basis for future analysis, consultation, and 
plan development on the EN.  Specifically, this will include the following activities: 
 
·
Outline Future Vision:
 
Given the history and current status and trends in the sub-basins, 
outline future visions for each of these sub-basins.  This envisioning exercise needs to be 
carried out with the help of structured consultations at the initial stage of the Consultancy.  It 
would be useful to outline an optimistic and pessimistic vision of the systems reflecting good 
and poor planning.  This envisioning exercise would be the basis of the development of Plans to 
get from where the system is today to the vision(s) outlined.
 
·
Structure Planning Objectives: 
Identify key goals, criteria, and possible indicators that need 
to examined in the evaluation of alternative planning scenarios for each of the three Plans.  An 
initial indication is given below, to be refined by the Consultant in stakeholder discussions and 
customized for each of the Plans, ensuring that these refer to final 
ends/goals
 and not be 
focused on 
schemes/means
 (the indicators should be both comprehensive across parameters to 
be considered in decision-making, as well as limited in number to enable meaningful 
interaction later when the consequences of various alternative plans are to be evaluated against 
these indicators): 
Objective Criteria 
Indicator 
(+ =more is better;  - = less is better)
 
Agricultural Net Benefits 
+
Agricultural Net Benefits ($ annualized or 
Present Value of Net Benefits) 
Power Net Benefits 
+ Power Net Benefits ($) 
Improve 
Economy 
Flood Damages 
- Flood Damages ($ annualized) 
Public Health 
- Cases of water-related diseases (million DALYs) 
Resettlement 
- No. of people relocated 
Food Security 
+ Percent of pop with cereal needs met 
Navigation 
+ Navigable river reaches (km-months) 
Employment  
+ No. of Full-time Jobs 
Low Income Effect 
+ No. of people above "poverty" threshold 
Improve Social 
Well-Being 
Adequate access to Safe Drinking 
Water 
+
#
people with access to safe drinking water 
supply 
Cultural Sites 
- Cultural sites impacted (number) 
Forest Cover/Vegetative Cover 
+ Forest/Vegetative cover (km2) 
Water Quality/Environmental Flows 
+ Water Quality / Minimum Flow Index 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
+ GHG Offset (tons/yr) 
Saline Water Intrusion 
+ Flow to Mediterranean Sea (MCM/yr) 
Protect and 
Enhance 
Environment 
and Cultural 
Resources 
 
Aquatic Habitat/Wetland/ Biodiversity 
+ Area of wetland/aquatic habitat 
Page  36
32
Growth Pole Potential 
+
Potential economic growth pole centers 
(number) 
Regional Interdependence 
+ Joint ownership/mgmt of assets (Scale) 
Regional Trade 
+ Bilateral trade ($/yr) 
Increase 
Regional 
Cooperation & 
Integration 
Preserve Future Options / Enhance 
Negotiation Space 
-
Overall system losses (MCM/yr) 
Financing 
-
Financing risk scale (function of total financing 
requirements, rate of return, institutional 
arrangements, attractiveness to governments, 
private sector and other donors, etc.) 
Political Instability 
-
Conflict Potential Scale (function of location of 
investments and potential for conflicts) 
Improve 
Implementability 
Technical Complexity/ Timing 
-
Technical Complexity Scale (function of factors 
that govern risk of delay, cost escalation, or safe 
operation) 
·
Scope Key Issues (opportunities and constraints) to be addressed in each Sub-Basin:
 
Identify special issues (and their approximate prioritization) to be considered in each of the Sub-
basin, including issues such as preexisting conditions, potential impacts of development, socio-
economic development, surface and groundwater resource availability, water 
supply/power/irrigation/environmental needs, storage options, water quality/environmental 
health, sensitive ecosystems, security, gender issues, erosion/sedimentation, land quality, 
institutional and policy aspects, possible partnerships, information availability, stakeholder 
awareness, etc.  Also identify key knowledge gaps and brief strategies to address them. 
 
·
Outline Key Investment Options:
 Identify the broad range of water resources 
development/management options to be considered in each of the sub-basins.  These may include: 
·
Water Use options (proposed projects for bulk water supply, irrigation expansion, hydropower generation, etc.) 
·
Water Storage options (including small, medium, and large reservoirs) and coordinated operation 
·
Water Demand management options (including cropping patterns, water delivery and use efficiency, deficit 
management/allocation) 
·
Potential water transfers 
 
·
Identify Key Planning Scenarios:
 Identify broad Scenarios that would be used to help develop 
the plans.  These include scenarios on investment strategies such as: 
·
Storage Strategies (e.g. reliance on large storages, medium storages, no dams) 
·
Sectoral Strategies 
–
e.g. Agriculture Development Strategies (e.g. hi-value agriculture, paddy expansion) 
·
Demand Side Management Strategies (high/medium/low effort at efficiency improvements) 
·
Climate Change/Variability Scenarios (e.g. historical & future scenarios) 
·
Financial/Budget Constraints (e.g..Low/Medium/High availability) 
·
Sensitivity Analysis on key parameters – including scenarios of scheduling of major investments, streamflows, 
etc. 
 
·
Outline Key Questions:
 Identify key questions that need to be answered by the knowledge base 
and modeling systems to be developed.  These may include questions at each of the different 
planning levels such as (to be refined as the Consultancy progresses in discussion with ENTRO): 
Page  37
33
 
Illustrative List of Questions to be Addressed with ENPM Assistance 
 
Spatial Distribution Maps 
1
In the Eastern Nile, what is the distribution of: 
ƒ
Poverty (using various poverty mapping indicators) 
ƒ
Access to services (e.g. water supply, electricity) 
ƒ
Rainfed and Irrigated Agriculture (indicating major crops) 
ƒ
Population distribution 
ƒ
Environmental assets 
ƒ
Water Balance 
–
including inflows and losses/uses in the system (current and under 2 possible future scenarios) 
 
Implications of Masterplan Developments 
2
What are the regional economic, social, and environmental implications of implementing the current country 
Masterplan projects on the  
o
Tekeze-Setit-Atbara 
o
Blue Nile 
o
Baro-Akobo-Sobat 
 
Alternative Paradigms of Development 
3
What are regional economic, environmental and social trade-offs among the following scenarios on the Blue Nile: 
o
Large dams on the Mainstem (e.g. Karadobi, Mabil, Mendaya, Border) 
o
Tributary Dams (e.g. on the Didessa, Guder, …) 
o
Extensive Watershed Development (with microdams) 
4
What are the implications of the following development paradigms on Ethiopian agriculture (w.  illustrative projects)
o
Expansion of Hi-Value Irrigation 
o
Expansion of Subsistence Irrigation 
o
Modernization of rainfed agriculture 
5
Evaluate alternative cropping patterns (with improved lean-season flow in the Blue Nile) for Gezira from regional 
economic, environmental and social perspectives 
6
What are the implications of different sequencing of investments for the mainstem of the Blue Nile (including 
Karadobi, Mabil, Mendaya, Border) 
 
Implications of Looming Challenges 
7
Using available IPCC climate change scenarios, examine implications of climate change on: 
o
Rainfall patterns (spatial and temporal) 
o
Temperature patterns (spatial and temporal) 
o
Evapo-transpiration implications (including from current and major planned EN reservoirs) 
o
Runoff 
o
Sea-level rise inundation (under various scenarios) 
o
Water quality  
8
Evaluate approximate salinity implications in Egypt in a scenario with: 
o
Reduced spills from Aswan 
o
Rising sea levels in the Mediterranean 
o
Subsidence of delta land 
 
Coordinating Operation 
9
How
can water resources infrastructure (under two scenarios of development) be synergistically operated to maximize 
benefits across multiple purposes (hydropower, irrigation, navigation, etc.) while minimizing risks (deficits/HP losses 
during drought and flood risk mitigation) 
 
Resource Management Strategies 
10 
What are the implications on sedimentation at Roseires in the Blue Nile of: 
o
Watershed management to different extents in the Blue Nile Watershed 
o
Development of a major mainstem storage on the Blue Nile 
o
Development of tributary storages on the Blue Nile 
11 
What is the approximate impacts of low-flows on surface and ground water interactions 
12 
What are the implications of the following land-use change scenarios when viewed in a regional context: 
·
Watershed development (including afforestation, check dams) 
·
Continued watershed degradation 
·
Urbanization 
Page  38
34
9. 
The ENPM Modeling System (drawn from Nile Basin DSS toolkit) will be capable of:  
(i) 
simulating existing hydrologic conditions within the Eastern Nile basins given current 
and potential investments
 (with a water “spine” model) and analyzing broad economic (e.g. 
costs and benefits from various investments), environmental and social dimensions of 
potential development scenarios in the Eastern Nile,  
(ii) 
optimizing the benefits of the Eastern Nile system under various investments to better 
understand the system boundaries and to evaluate alternative system infrastructure operating 
rules, and  
(iii) 
comparison of scenarios based on various criteria and use to facilitate stakeholder 
discussions for investment planning decisions .   
 
10. In order to serve as a tool for evaluating alternative development scenarios, the ENPM Modeling 
System will be sufficiently flexible so that the baseline scenario can be easily changed.  Thus the 
user will be able to modify the physical elements of the model or any of the data components in 
the system.  The modeling system also will present analyses and results of the multiple scenario 
model runs.  The final system design should include the capability for the system to generate 
maps, statistical tables, and graphs using a variety of data types. The tools used will need to be 
developed to modern standards of design and utility.  The functional specifications expected are 
summarized below:  
 
Functional Specifications of the Simulation and Optimization Models 
 
11. The Simulation and Optimization Models should have:  
o
Ability to answer the questions posed in Box 1 with models indicated in table in this box. 
o
Ability to Drag-and-drop objects (sub-basins/watersheds, dam, regional transmission systems, 
confluence, irrigation systems, hydro-meteorological stations, connections, return flows) to define the 
water system and interactively add attributes/operating rules, choose scenario options, undertake 
sensitivity analyses, etc. and visualize and further analyze outputs 
o
Ability to select/deselect individual proposed projects in defining scenarios 
o
Ability to estimate water supply under various scenarios (including climate variability/change) 
and demands (by location, sector and future scenarios) 
o
Ability to generate hydrograph and flow time-series at user-defined location 
o
Ability to estimate/optimize impacts of various operating rules for existing and proposed 
infrastructure 
o
Tools to assist with water resources analysis (e.g. time series analysis, synthetic 
streamflows/data generation) 
o
Tools to assist with economic analysis of various types of investments (e.g. using streams of 
costs and multi-purpose benefits to generate net benefits, IRRs) 
o
Tools to assist with environmental analysis of various types of investments (e.g. inundation of 
forest areas under large storage development scenarios, erosion reduction through different watershed 
management measures) 
o
Tools to assist with social analysis of various types of investments (e.g. resettlement, 
employment generation for different investments based on input data) 
o
Tools to estimate impacts of uncertainty of various parameters on selected outputs (e.g. monte-
carlo simulation) 
Page  39
35
o
Inclusion of all software required for ENPM with licensing (unlimited duration with upgrading 
p
otential) required to support use at 
least at in ENTRO (7 licenses on 
desktop/laptop), and the three 
Country ENPM Center locations (3 
per location x 3 locations = 9 
licenses on desktop/laptop), and the 
three University Outreach Centers 
(3 per location x 3 locations = 9 
licenses on desktop/laptop) for a 
total of 25 licenses 
–
this allows 
flexibility to develop customized 
tools or customize off-the-shelf 
models as appropriate. 
o
Specific delineation of 
geographical scope of ENPM and 
the spatial and temporal (e.g 
daily/monthly) resolution required 
for various modules 
o
Further elaboration of the 
spatial analysis (and use of 
GIS/remote sensing, including the 
use of accessible global, regional 
and national spatial datasets) 
o
Types of processes to be 
modeled in this 3-year period (e.g. 
rainfall-runoff, missing flow 
estimation, erosion, sediment 
transport, water quality, 
groundwater/conjunctive use 
management, reservoir operations, 
etc.) for both the simulation and 
optimization modeling proposed 
(based on outputs required) 
o
Using an appropriate cost allocation methodology (e.g. Seperable Cost Remaining Benefit or 
SCRB), allocate costs for major proposed dams (e.g. Karadobi, Mabil, Mendaya, and Border on Blue 
Nile mainstem) considering major benefits (e.g. hydropower, irrigation, flood/drought management, 
navigation, fisheries) by country 
o
Development of appropriate user interfaces/workspaces/access at different levels (basic user, 
advanced user, administrator) 
o
Ability to interlink with other modeling systems (being developed under DSS and FPEW) 
o
Appropriate model calibration and validation 
o
Provision of online help and tutorials; Security arrangements; Logfile for scenario run 
management 
o
Ability to store results of different scenarios for comparison 
o
Conformity with ISO codes for software development and documentation 
 
Functional Specifications of the Multicriteria Analytical Tools 
 
12. Decisions on investments are seldom made on hydrologic considerations alone, but on a range of 
objectives, criteria, and indicators and their intersection with the political economy.  The ENPM 
seeks to better inform decisions by choosing a few focused criteria and indicators to compare 
various scenarios.  Hence, the multi-criteria analytical tools developed should have the ability to 
compare various scenarios from different perspectives (economic, social and environmental) 
Type of 
Modeling 
Description 
Rainfall-runoff 
modeling 
·
Estimation of 
relationships in each 
watershed (rainfall, runoff, 
evaporation, losses) 
·
Ability to incorporate 
climate change 
rainfall/temperature scenarios 
Water Systems 
modeling/Hydrologic 
routing (the Water 
“Spine”) 
·
Impacts of system 
storages and abstractions, 
return flows, losses, inter-
basin diversions 
·
Assimilation (for error 
optimization) 
River-
reach/Hydraulic 
routing 
·
Levels, inundated areas 
P
r
i
m
a
r
y
Reservoir operations 
·
Reservoir management
Agricultural modeling 
(rainfed, irrigated, 
flood irrigation, pump 
schemes) 
·
Crop water 
requirements, return flows, 
efficiency, overall water 
demands, etc. 
Groundwater model 
·
Application to selected 
aquifers - expandable 
Economic 
optimization 
(reservoir) 
·
Reservoir operation to 
maximize multipurpose 
benefits 
Economic 
optimization (systems) 
·
Overall systems 
optimziation 
S
u
p
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
(
i
n
i
t
i
a
l
v
e
r
s
i
o
n
s
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
l
e
d
a
t
a
)
Salinity modeling 
·
Approx salinity 
computation based on flows, 
sea-level rise, land subsidence 
in Egypt delta
Water quality and sedimentation aspects of river basin planning 
modeling will be considered, but may not be modeled in detail for 
this project.  The Consultant will assist ENTRO in locating suitable 
existing models for these elements. 
Page  40
36
using both quantitative and qualitative indicators as discussed in the Planning Objectives section 
earlier.  The tools developed should have easy to use visual, interactive tools for selecting 
scenarios, criteria, comparison and saving/retrieval. 
 
13. Many of these indicators will need to be assessed not only at an overall level, but at country (and 
possibly sub-regional) level.  Not all these indicators (that are representative of the types of 
considerations in investment decision making) will be computable using the ENPM.  However, 
they do give an idea about the kinds of outputs that will be expected from the ENPM.  The initial 
set of indicators developed by the ENPM preparation Consultant will need to be refined during 
implementation as part of user consultation and feedback.  The user interaction will then help 
refine the relationships to be modeled and any additional data inputs required.  
 
Structure of the ENPM Modeling System 
14. The ENPM Modeling System will use a data centered approach, which supports a variety of uses 
including data viewing, analysis, and modeling.  The data-centered approach allows modular 
development to occur yet ensures that all applications use the same, consistent information.  In 
addition, this approach enhances data integrity, and minimizes data redundancy.  Because the 
database is the center of the system, the individual software components around the database may 
be rebuilt or replaced without replacing or modifying the data structures on which the rest of the 
system depend.  
 
15. The data centered system proposed for the ENPM modeling system consists of the knowledge 
base and the following modeling tools:  
 
Basin Simulation Models:
This will allow for the simulation of the current hydrology and hydraulics of 
the basin and any potential scenarios that the users will investigate for water resources investment 
planning purposes.  Within the models the river basin will be represented as a network of nodes and 
reaches, with the nodes representing physical aspects of the river, i.e. reservoirs, diversion points, 
inflow points, stream confluences, etc., and the reaches representing river reaches through which 
flows must be routed, accounting for translation time and volume attenuation.  The network 
representation of the basin will easily be modified to characterize the addition of proposed basin 
impacts.  The hydrologic modeling of the basin to determine flows under various scenarios will be an 
initial part of this modeling.  In addition, appropriate economic, social, and environmental 
implications of the simulated scenarios will be computed, based on information from the database and 
hydrological modeling outputs.  The outputs will include a comparison of the hydrologic, economic, 
social, and environmental criteria (measured with appropriate indicators) of various investment 
scenarios.  Associated tools for output visualization (e.g. using graphical, tabular, schematic, and 
map-based formats) and statistical analysis, sensitivity analysis, economic and financial analysis (e.g. 
analyzing net present value of streams of benefits and costs associated with each scenario), and 
scenario comparison and visualization (across environmental, social and economic criteria) will be 
developed. 
Basin Optimization Models:
This will allow for the use of optimization tools to maximize the net benefits 
of water resources development and management in the Eastern Nile Basin, subject to a variety of 
constraints (e.g. resource, technology, policy, budget, etc.).  The network used in the simulation 
model will now be analyzed to indicate the optimal combination of investments under various 
development scenarios.  The optimization models would be developed to better understand the system 
Page  41
37
limits and narrow down potential investment choices to simulate in detail.  In addition, alternative 
optimal operation rules to efficiently operate system infrastructure will also be outlined using such 
tools.  The optimization will consider economic, environmental, and social parameters (e.g. as 
objectives, decision variables or constraints) in scenario analysis to make best use of available 
information and better aid stakeholder discussions on investment decisions.  In this case also, 
appropriate tools would be developed to visualize, analyze and compare outputs across scenarios. 
Multi-Criteria Analytical Tools:
The Multi-Criteria Analytical tools will be able to compare various 
scenarios (e.g. with any combination of contemplated investments or changed management in the 
basin) according to economic, environmental and social consequences, and estimates of the Present 
Value of Net Benefits (PVNB) for the anticipated planning period.   
 
The user will interact with and control the modeling system (and the knowledge base) through a 
Graphical User Interface (GUI)
.
The database developed with the ENPM will be designed to be fully 
compatible and coordinated with the Nile Basin Decision Support System (DSS). 
 
Component C: Institutional and Human Capacity Building 
 
16. A unique focus of the ENPM is not only to develop the knowledge base and modeling systems, 
but to also support the enabling environment to get stakeholder input into the design and use of 
these systems.  In particular, this component would support:  
·
Strengthening ENPM Institutions 
o
Assist ENTRO and EN countries to setup ENPM Modeling Offices to be “knowledge centers” on the 
water resources of the Eastern Nile 
o
Develop business processes and information flow for effective ENPM implementation 
o
Develop strategic partnerships (including internships, partnerships with academia) to improve ENPM 
effectiveness and provision of public domain information 
o
Coordinate ENPM development with other NBI Projects and Activities (especially the Nile DSS) 
o
Develop and implement robust structured training program on development and use of ENPM 
Modeling System to make investment plans (including development of ENPM modules-at-a-glance 
guides, user manuals, operational manual, technical manual, workbooks) - in synergy with the Applied 
Training Program SVP. 
o
Develop Maintenance and Enhancement Strategy (maintenance/security manuals, additional technical 
development, institutionalize procedures/processes for encouraging an enabling environment for model 
development and use, institutional incentives for retention of trained staff, financial support, etc.) 
o
Strengthen Data Availability, Accessibility, and Quality (establish common guidelines for enhancing 
data availability, accessibility, and quality; improve data availability, accessibility, and quality 
activities; capacity building for data collection and interpretation) 
o
Develop and implement a practical ENPM monitoring and evaluation system 
 
·
Design a structured stakeholder interaction framework for the ENPM 
o
Interact with key stakeholder groups; outline the key areas in which ENPM can assist different 
stakeholder groups – technical staff, ENSAPT members, Regional and National groups, ministers, 
general public 
o
Outline processes to best facilitate stakeholder interaction with the ENPM 
o
Undertake structured workshops to help input into ENPM design and to use the system to facilitate 
decision support
 
17. It is expected that this structured stakeholder interaction, capacity-building at ENTRO and 
National ENPM centers, and awareness raising activities would help generate interest for the 
ENPM, improve the knowledge base coverage and quality, assist in design of the tools to help 
Page  42
38
answer demand-driven questions, and better inform decision making and generation of broad-
based consensus on investments.  In particular, it is expected that interaction with the ENPM 
would help stakeholders develop a regional perspective on Eastern Nile investments, as well as a 
more holistic appreciation of the implications of various development scenario. 
Annex 5: Project Costs 
EASTERN AFRICA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model 
 
Project Cost By Component and/or Activity 
 
Total 
US $million 
Project Support Consultants (to develop knowledge base, 
modeling tools and facilitate stakeholder meetings) 
 
4.65
ENTRO Offices Operational Support Costs 
 
 
0.83 
Computers and other equipment 
 
 
0.30 
Training  
 
0.46 
 
Total Baseline Cost 
 
6.24
Physical  and Price Contingencies 
 
 
0.26 
Counterpart financing
7
0.60 
Total Project Costs
1
7.10 
Total Financing Required
6.50 
Justification for Contingencies:  
 
In the project costs, costs for physical and price contingencies account for 4.2 % of the base costs which 
is considered appropriate for a short implementation period of three years as compared to 6.7 to 9.6% 
adopted for similar projects funded in Ethiopia with longer duration of five years as in the case of Pastoral 
Community Development Project and Rural Capacity Building Project.  
 
Detailed Project Cost by Type 
 
Type 
Total 
US $million 
(i) Goods and Equipments 
0.30 
(ii) Consultancy 
4.48 
(iii) Workshop/Training 
0.46 
(iv) Incremental operation and maintenance cost  
1.00 
(vi) Unallocated contingency/Country/ENTRO support 
0.86 
Total Project Costs
1
7.10 
Total Financing Required
6.50 
These types are notional.  In keeping with Bank project simplification objectives, the Grant Agreement 
has a single disbursement category for the entire project (other than a small unallocated category).  A 
7
Includes office space, government staff, logistics, and other facilities provided by Ethiopia, Sudan, and Egypt to 
support activities related to the ENPM Project. 
Page  43
39
more detailed breakup of the estimated costs for this project has been prepared and agreed during 
Negotiations. 
 
Page  44
40
Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements 
EASTERN AFRICA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model
 
1. 
The Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office (ENTRO) is the primary implementing agency for 
this project.  ENTRO is established in Addis Ababa under a Headquarters Agreement with the 
Government of Ethiopia, which awards to ENTRO the legal personality, privileges and 
immunities of a regional organization.  The ENCOM approved legal status of ENTRO (December 
2002) and invested ENTRO with the legal personality to perform the functions entrusted to it, 
including the power to receive and administer grant funding, in the territories of all three EN 
countries.  ENTRO has been designed as an NBI institution by Nile-COM (Extraordinary Nile-
COM Meeting, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, September 12, 2003).  At the October 2008 Eastern Nile 
Council of Ministers (ENCOM) Meeting, it was agreed that the ENPM would be implemented at 
ENTRO's headquarters in Addis Ababa.  
 
2.  ENTRO will sign a Grant Agreement with the World Bank and thus be responsible for the 
coordination of all activities, procurement of equipment and consultants, and management of 
funds.  ENTRO will have final responsibility for the quality of outputs and will work in close 
cooperation with both the Bank’s Nile Team in supervising the activities and with the already 
identified National ENPM Coordinators in the MOIWR (Sudan), MOWR (Ethiopia) and MOWRI 
(Egypt).  
 
Page  45
41
 
3.  The Regional ENPM Center will be established and equipped with basic facilities (basic IT 
equipment, office facilities, dedicated line for internet connection, etc). The unit will be headed 
by the Regional ENPM Coordinator  with support provided by full-time staff (long term 
consultants in the form of a Regional Planning Model Specialist, a Water Resources Planning and 
Management Specialist, and Information Management-GIS&Database Specialists), who will be 
competitively hired from the EN region, supported by short-term specialists (e.g. environmental, 
social, and economic specialists) and interns. Functions such as finance, procurement, and 
administration; formal external communication; protocols; and donor liaison; will be undertaken 
within the existing ENTRO organization according to existing modes of operation.  The project 
would support ENTRO costs (including administrative, office space, procurement/financial 
management support, logistical, communication, and other office expenses) related to the project.  
The Eastern Nile Council of Ministers (ENCOM) and the Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action 
Program Team (ENSAPT) will provide overall guidance for the ENPM Project.  The governance 
of the project would also include ENTRO management oversight, an ENPM Synergy group (to 
improve coordination with the Nile DSS and other NBI and ENTRO activities), an ENPM 
Regional Working Group (to provide regional oversight and inputs), and a technical Panel of 
Experts (to provide international technical advice to improve the quality of ENPM activities).  
The World Bank ENPM project team will also undertake regular supervision of the project 
activities and facilitate synergy with other activities. 
 
4. 
Activities at national level would be supported by the National ENPM Centers in the respective 
Ministries of Water Affairs and will be headed by the National ENPM Coordinator (which is part 
of the overall ENSAP arrangement). The National ENPM Centers will suitably interact with other 
national level institutions (through committees/working groups) to implement the project at 
country levels. The data sharing/logistics commitment from each country would be ensured 
through a formal commitment by each country.  Countries will provide counterpart staff to 
support project activities within their territories, as agreed in letters of commitment that have 
been received from Ethiopia, Sudan, and Egypt. 
 
5. 
Partnerships are to be established with a relevant University in each of the three countries to set 
up ENPM Outreach Centers.  These Universities, designated by the countries in discussion with 
ENTRO) include: 
·
Egypt: University of Cairo 
·
Ethiopia: University of Addis Ababa 
·
Sudan: University of Khartoum 
 
The Universities would designate a space for the ENPM Outreach Centers, and the project would 
finance computer hardware, ENPM-related software, internships, faculty oversight, and 
meeting/workshop costs associated with the ENPM. 
 
Page  46
42
Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements 
EASTERN AFRICA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model
 
Financial Management 
 
1.  The financial management assessment was carried out in accordance with the Financial Management 
Practices Manual issued by the Financial Management Board on 3 November 2005. The objective of the 
assessment was to determine whether the implementing entities have acceptable financial management 
arrangements, which will ensure: (1) the funds are used only for the intended purposes in an efficient and 
economical way, (2) allow for the preparation of accurate, reliable and timely periodic financial reports, 
(3) safeguard the entities’ assets; and the existing capacity of ENTRO is capable of handling the Project’s 
financial transactions. The Financial management assessment was conducted in December 2008 and was 
updated in June 2009 at Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office (ENTRO) in Addis Ababa. ENTRO has 
good experience in implementation of Bank financed projects. Some of the projects that are implemented 
or being implemented by ENTRO includes Policy and Human resource Development (PHRD), Watershed 
Management, Joint Multipurpose Project (JMP), Institutional Strengthening Project, Africa Land and 
Water Initiative and the Eastern Nile Flood Prevention and Early Warning Project. 
 
In conclusion, the proposed financial management arrangements for this project are adequate and meet 
the Bank’s requirements as per OP/BP10.02. 
 
Country Issues 
2. The Head Office of ENTRO is located in Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia and the main financial 
management activities are done in the Head Office. 
3. The recently completed Joint budget and Aid review (JBAR) and the Fiduciary Assessment (FA) show 
that Ethiopia has made significant progress in strengthening public financial management in recent years. 
As part of the JBAR, the Bank in collaboration with the JBS donors, conducted a Public Financial 
Management (PFM) status review using the PEFA framework. Out of the sixteen indictors covered under 
this review, fourteen of them covered the government’s systems for public expenditure planning, 
budgeting, and, reporting. The remaining two indicators are meant to assess donor performance. Ethiopia 
met 7 of the fourteen indictors related to the planning, budgeting and reporting systems. Generally 
Ethiopia scores high in macroeconomic management, including aggregate fiscal discipline and 
minimizing fiscal risks. Satisfactory progress was also noted in budgeting and accounting reform, though 
the adequacy and quality of budget reporting leaves room for improvement and remains a key concern.  .   
4. The Fiduciary Assessment(FA) completed in early 2005, notes that considerable progress has been 
made in implementing FM reforms in both federal and regional level administrations. The areas of 
improvements include budget processes, internal controls and cash management. Also, some steps have 
been taken in reforming internal and external audits. Nevertheless, there are some weak areas that require 
attention. These include delays in financial reporting (both in-year and annual), inadequate capacity of the 
auditors-general to discharge their responsibility; and weakness in legislative scrutiny of audited financial 
reports. At Regional level the situation varies between regions. SNNP and Tigray regions have been the 
beneficiaries of investment and local initiatives to support PFM reform, and in both cases improvement in 
the overall public finance function and a consequential reduction in Fiduciary Risk are apparent. Other 
Regions are at an earlier stage of investment or have not yet commenced their plans and therefore 
demonstrated less progress in enhancing PFM. However, even in the progressive regions the coverage is 
not complete and there continues to be capacity and staffing issues in areas such as audit. An additional 
Page  47
43
concern is that while there is some improvement in the financial discipline associated with government 
funds the increasing use of other funding routes such as Food Security Program, is increasing Fiduciary 
Risk by requiring additional workload in areas where capacity is already stretched 
 
5.  Ethiopia’s public financial management reforms have been managed by the Expenditure Management 
and Control sub-Program (EMCP) of the government’s civil services reform program. EMCP has 
developed a revised strategic plan to implement the nine components of the sub-program Mobilization 
behind the EMCP (in terms of financial 
and
human resources), as a key component of the Public Sector 
Capacity Building Program (PSCAP), is now a priority. 
 
Risk Assessment and Mitigation
 
6.  The table below outlines respective perceived risks to the program and requisite mitigating measures:  
 
Risk description 
Risk 
Rating 
Risk Mitigating 
Measures 
incorporated into 
the Project Design 
Conditions of 
Negotiations, 
Board or 
Effectiveness 
(Yes or No) 
Residual 
Risk 
Remarks 
Inherent Risk
 
Country
 
level-  Lack 
of trained manpower in 
the area of accounting 
and auditing and low 
pay scales to attract 
qualified people. There 
is no national 
professional association 
and accounting and 
auditing standards.  
S
These are being 
addressed by the 
government Civil 
Service Reform 
Program outside this 
project supported by 
PSCAP.  
N
M
Entity Level-project is 
implemented in three 
different countries FM 
documents are 
transmitted using courier 
services but may delay 
dependent on each 
country situation. There 
is possibility of 
documents getting lost. 
M
Simplification in 
d
esign, ensuring key 
fiduciary staff are 
present, and close 
supervision during 
implementation
N
L
The grant has some 
activities to be 
implemented by the 
three countries 
(Ethiopia, Sudan and 
Egypt) and ENTRO 
Overall inherent Risk 
S
M
Control Risk
 
Budgeting-weak 
budgeting and 
monitoring process 
 
M
ENTRO prepares a 
five-year strategic 
plan, which is the 
basis for annual 
budget.  
 
N
L
Page  48
44
Accounting-The 
Financial management 
manual has not yet been 
updated. 
M
Continued training 
of staff and close 
supervision 
N
L
NBI FM and Admin 
manual is under 
preparation under NBI-
ISP.  Expected to be 
finalized and approved 
b
y
TAC by November 
2009 
Internal Control-Non 
existence of Internal 
audit unit and low 
capacity in the internal 
audit profession. 
M
Annual audits will 
help check on the 
extent of internal 
control in the 
respective 
implementing 
agencies 
N
L
Currently, there is no 
internal audit section in 
ENTRO. ENTRO 
should consider the 
establishment of an 
internal audit unit   
Financial Reporting-
Non regular reports 
being submitted  
M
ENTRO is familiar 
with the reporting 
formats and is 
supposed to submit 
the reports timely.  
N
L
Auditing-low capacity in 
the auditing profession  
M
Standard ENTRO 
auditing 
arrangements in 
place 
N
L
Overall control Risk 
L
L
Overall Risk 
Assessment  
M
L
7.  In view of the above risk assessment, the overall residual financial management risk rating for ENTRO 
is 
low
.
Strengths and Weaknesses 
8.  ENTRO is now managed by a strong management team. The Finance and Administration Department 
(FAD) has well experienced and qualified staff. The Finance Unit has three staff, excluding the Head of 
FAD. ENTRO has now recruited Head of Finance and Administration starting May 1, 2009. ENTRO uses 
Microsoft Dynamic Solomon accounting software which has adequate capacity to produce financial 
statement of the project The project activities are recorded according to its computerized accounting 
systems by setting separate ledger books so as to report the project activities. The existing system is 
capable of timely recoding and reporting of transitions on a timely manner. The existing financial 
management manual needs updating and this is planned to be done under the standardization and 
harmonization initiative of the NBI institutional strengthening project.   
9. One of the means to strengthen the internal control system is to establish a strong Internal Audit Unit.  
NBI is  mandating the establishment of an Internal Audit unit throughout all NBI Institutions including 
ENTRO.  The Financial Management and Admin Manual which is being developed under NBI 
Institutional Strengthening project (also funded by the Nile Basin Trust Fund) will address this issue and 
provide a strategy for the NBI Internal Audit.  The Manual is expected to be finalized and approved by 
November 2009. 
Page  49
45
 
Staffing  
 
11.   ENTRO has adequate accounting staff. At present the accounting department has three accounting 
staff of which two have degrees in accounting and one has diploma in accounting. This staffs are 
responsible for undertaking the financial transactions of the program as a whole. ENTRO has employed a 
qualified accountant as head of Finance and Administration Department. The Head of the Finance and 
Administration is responsible for the overall financial management of ENTRO. All of the existing finance 
staff has a long period of relevant experience and adequate qualifications.   
 
Budgeting  
12.  ENTRO prepares a five-year strategic plan, which is the basis for its annual budget. ENTRO   has 
adequate internal budgeting procedures and these will be applicable to the project. In the budget 
procedure each year, budget is initiated by each department and is submitted to the budget committee. 
Each department defends its budget with the budget committee. Subsequently the budget is presented to 
Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Plan Team (ENSAPT) and reviewed by its members before it is sent to 
Eastern Nile Council of Ministers (ENCOM) for approval. Budget execution analysis will explain any 
exceptions and overruns. Variance analysis and comparison of budget with actual are done on monthly 
basis and actions are taken based on these analysis. 
 
Accounting  
13.  ENTRO uses double entry accounting system based on cash basis of accounting. All revenue and 
expenditures are accounted for on cash basis of accounting. Cost of fixed assets and stock are expensed at 
the time of purchase, but memorandum records are maintained to control the assets and stock. ENTRO 
has a Finance manual which is used as a reference guide for the staff working in the Finance Unit. This 
manual will be replaced by a new   financial and administrative manual which is being developed under 
NBI Institutional Strengthening project.  The Manual is expected to be finalized and approved by 
November 2009.  ENTRO uses Microsoft Dynamic Solomon accounting software which has adequate 
capacity to produce financial statements of the project. The project activities are recorded according to its 
computerized accounting systems by setting separate ledger books so as to report on the project activities. 
The existing system is capable of timely recoding and reporting of transitions on a timely manner. 
ENTRO produces financial statements on monthly basis after five days of the end of the month. The 
monthly financial statements are produced from the accounting system .ENTRO moved towards modified 
cash basis of accounting from cash basis accounting system starting 1 July 2008.  
 
Internal Control 
14.  Internal control comprises the entire system of control, financial or otherwise, established by 
management in order to (a) carry out the project activities in an orderly and efficient manner, (b) ensure 
adherence to policies and procedures; and (c) safeguard and the assets of the project and secure as far as 
possible the completeness and accuracy of the financial and other records.  
 
15.  The financial management system for the project has sufficient controls to minimize the possible 
misuse of funds. The authorization and approval procedures are in place. There is sufficient separation of 
duties in the payments approval cycle. As noted earlier, ENTRO has a finance manual. Considering the 
number of projects implemented by ENTRO and in order to further strengthen its internal control system, 
ENTRO will establish an Internal Audit Unit to help enhance the internal control system. 
Page  50
46
 
Fund Flows and Disbursement Arrangements  
Funds flow 
16.  ENTRO will open a Designated Account (DA) in US dollars in a commercial Bank on terms and 
conditions that are satisfactory to the Bank for the receipt of grant proceeds and will communicate 
banking details to the World Bank. The DA will be managed by ENTRO. The agreed ceiling for the DA 
has been determined during negotiation.
 
17.  From the DA, ENTRO will advance a reasonable amount (depending on their projected work 
program and request made to each of the three countries planning model coordinators as a revolving fund 
to cover operating costs. The revolving fund will be replenished on submission of utilization report and 
original supporting documents. ENTRO will issue a one page guideline on how to manage the revolving 
fund. Any other payment, which cannot be made from the revolving fund, will be paid from the DA. 
ENTRO will maintain original supporting documents at its Headquarters for purposes of audit of the 
project.  
 
Disbursement Methods 
18.  The disbursement methods the project will employ are: Designated Account, Direct Payments, 
reimbursements and Special Commitment. At the beginning of the project, the designated account will be 
replenished on the basis of statements of expenditures. It is possible to use the interim unaudited financial 
reports for the replenishment of the DA after the Bank is satisfied with the adequacy of the financial 
arrangements, i.e. (a) sustain satisfactory financial management rating during the p
roject’s supervision; 
(b) submit Interim Financial Reports consistent with the agreed form and content within 45 days of the 
end of each reporting period, and (c) submit Audit Reports by the due date. 
 
Minimum Value of Applications 
19.  The minimum value for Direct Payment and Special Commitment has been determined during 
negotiation of the project. 
 
Reporting on Use of Grant Proceeds 
20. The supporting documentation for reporting eligible expenditures paid from the designated account 
should be a summary report of the Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and records evidencing eligible 
expenditures for payments against contracts valued above USD 100,000 for goods, USD 200,000 for 
consulting firms and USD 100,000 for individual consultants.  
21. The supporting documentation for direct payment should be records evidencing eligible expenditures 
(copies of receipt, supplier’s invoices, etc).  
22. The project will submit a bank statement and a reconciliation of the designated account together with 
the withdrawal application at least on quarterly basis.  
23.  All supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained at ENTRO and must be made available for 
review by periodic World Bank review missions and external auditors.  
24.  The format of the interim un-audited financial report is attached at the end of this Annex. 
Page  51
47
 
Counterpart Funding 
25.  ENTRO and the three beneficiary countries will provide contribution in-kind amounting to USD 
600,000. In-kind contribution will include office space, staff time, etc.  
 
Table C: Allocation of Credit proceeds 
Category Amount 
 
($ million) 
Financing 
Percentages 
Works, Goods, Consultant Services, Training/Workshop, and 
Incremental Operating Costs  
6.50
100% 
Reporting and Monitoring 
26.  According to the financial manual of ENTRO, quarterly and annual financial statements will be 
produced. The statements mainly include statement of cash receipts and payments, budget utilization and 
trial balance. These statements are presented to management of ENTRO and to the external auditors for 
review. ENTRO produces regular financial reports on timely basis to be used by various stakeholders, 
including the Bank.  
27. For the grant, ENTRO will produce interim unaudited Financial Reports (IFRs) and will submit the 
IFRs to the Bank 45 days after the end of each quarter. At a minimum, the financial reports must include 
the sources and uses of funds, expenditures by main expenditure classifications, beginning and ending 
cash balances and other supporting schedules.  The formats of the IFRs are attached.  
28.  The financial year of ENTRO is now changed from 1 January to 31 December to 1 July to 30 June. 
This change was applicable starting 1 July 2008.
 
External Audit 
29.  In order to enhance the credibility of the financial statements, the annual financial statements are 
subject to external audit.  The annual financial statements of ENTRO have been audited by an 
independent audit firm. Currently, there are no outstanding reports. The audit of the project will be carried 
out in accordance with international standards issued by the International Federation of Accountants 
(IFAC). The terms of reference for the external audit had been cleared by the Bank for other TFs and that 
will be applicable for this Project as well. The annual audited financial statements, along with the 
management letter, will be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of the ENTRO fiscal 
year. According to the audit policy of the Bank, external auditors are expected to issue a single audit 
opinion on the consolidated financial statements of ENTRO, including financial transactions of the 
Project along with management letter if ENTRO will integrate the project financial statements within its 
financial statements. .   
 
Financial covenants 
31. ENTRO shall submit audited project financial statements including management letter no later than 
six months after the close of each fiscal year. ENTRO will submit IFRs 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter.  
 
Page  52
48
Supervision plan 
32. Considering the nature of the project and its risk
,
the Bank’s supervision mission should be as regular 
as possible-mainly once a year. The supervision will review the Project’s financial management systems 
and capacity, in accordance with the FM Manual, including but not limited to the operation of Designated 
Account, evaluating quality of budgets, financial reports, assessing relevance of FM Manual, statement of 
expenditures, internal controls, reporting and follow up of audit and mission findings.  Special attention to 
review of soft expenditures to check whether they are spent on authentic activities will also be 
undertaken.  Intensity of supervision will be reassessed after the first year of implementation 
 
Page  53
49
Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements 
EASTERN AFRICA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model
 
A.  General  
 
1. 
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank’s 
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 revised October 2006; 
and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004 
revised October 2006, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement.  The various items under 
different expenditure categories are described in general below.  For each contract to be financed by the 
Loan/Credit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-
qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank in the Procurement Plan.  The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually 
or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional 
capacity. 
 
2. 
Procurement of Works
:
No works are expected to be procured under this project. 
 
3. 
Procurement of Goods:
 Goods procured under this project would include computer hardware, 
software, data, networking/communications, office equipment and consumables
.
The procurement will be 
done using the Bank’s SBD for all ICB and shopping as agreed with or satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
4. 
Procurement of non-consulting services: 
None expected. 
 
5. 
Selection of Consultants:  
The project is expected to finance a number of consultancies including the 
main assignment for the development of ENPM, a number of individual consultants to be hired on a long 
and short term basis (including an international panel of experts, key ENPM development personnel, and 
interns).  Consulting services estimated to cost USD 200,000 or more per contract will be procured 
through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS). Consulting services for the development of the 
ENPM is a highly specialized assignment with a high downstream impact and will require having the best 
experts.  The contract for this assignment will therefore be procured through the QBS method using the 
two envelope system in accordance with paragraphs 3.2 and 3.3 of the Consultants Guidelines.  A few 
long-term individual consultants are proposed to be hired competitively to support ENPM implementation 
at ENTRO (to be advertised in the Eastern Nile region) and the National Offices (to be advertised in the 
country). Some of the activities completed under this grant will be undertaken through short term 
consultancies (individuals or firms) as well as workshops and possible study visits.  Small Consultants’ 
Services with an estimated value of less than US$100,000 equivalent for firms may be selected on the 
basis of Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS). Individual consultants will be selected on competitive basis 
(ICS), and under exceptional circumstances on a Sole Source basis.  Short lists of consultants for services 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of consultants who 
are nationals of the Eastern Nile (EN) countries in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Exceptionally, where the services of government-owned universities in the EN 
countries are of unique and exceptional nature, and their partnerships critical to project implementation, 
ENTRO will formally propose for Bank’s consideration  the hiring of  the University of Cairo in Egypt, 
University of Khartoum in Sudan and University of Addis Ababa in Ethiopia on a case-by-case basis in 
accordance with paragraph 1.11 (c) of the Consultants Guidelines. 
 
6. 
Operating Costs:
 
The project would contribute about $445,000, approximately 6% of project costs 
to finance operating costs including administrative, office space, procurement/financial management 
support, logistical, communication, travel, and other office expenses of ENTRO headquarters.  In 
Page  54
50
addition, the project would finance office expenses and travel in at the National ENPM offices and 
support for the conduct of training and workshops.  ENTRO administrative procedures which have been 
found acceptable to the Bank will be used for operating expenditure. 
 
7. 
Others
:
The project would finance internships (e.g. on water resources modeling, environment, 
economics, and social development issues relating to water) and partnerships with Universities.  The grant 
will fund regional workshops, training exercises and study visits to centers and sites that provide relevant 
learning opportunities for technical specialists and senior managers. The recipient shall carry out the 
workshops, training activities and study visits on the basis of programs, which shall have been approved 
by the Bank and which shall, inter alia, identify the: 
 
(a) Workshop/training/study visit program envisaged; 
(b) Personnel to attend the workshop/training/study visits; 
(c) Selection method of institutions conduction such workshops/training/study visits; 
(d) Duration of the workshop/training/study visit; and 
(e) Estimated detailed cost of the workshop/training/study visit. 
 
8. 
The procurement procedures and SBDs to be used for each procurement method, as well as model 
contracts for works and goods procured, are presented in the Borrower’s harmonized Procurement 
Manual currently under preparation. 
 
B.  Assessment of the agency’s capacity to implement procurement 
 
9. 
Procurement activities will be carried out by the Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office (ENTRO). 
The agency is staffed by an Executive Director; Senior Regional Project Coordinator, and Coordinators, 
for Social Development, Irrigation and Drainage, Watershed, ENPM and FPEW projects; 
Communications Specialist; Regional Financeand Administration Head; Senior Operations Officer:  etc., 
and the procurement function is staffed by two procurement professionals. 
 
10. An assessment of the capacity of ENTRO, to implement procurement actions for the project has been 
carried out by the procurement specialist from the World Bank Ethiopia Country Office in 
November/December 2008.  The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the 
project and the interaction between the project’s staff responsible for procurement and ENTRO’s Finance 
and Administration Unit.   
 
11. The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation of the project have been 
identified along with corrective measures which have been agreed.  
Recommendations of the assessment 
and the issues remaining to be addressed by ENTRO are reflected in the table below.  Procurement 
actions under the grant are well within the type and size generally managed by ENTRO. ENT
RO’s key 
technical staff, the Procurement Officer (PO) and assistant PO, and financial management staff has 
attended Bank procurement Clinics
 
in Addis Ababa. ENTRO is receiving advice and support on 
procurement actions through the World Bank’s Country Office as and when needed and has been 
managing several other NBTF and donor funded projects. The agreed actions to address the identified 
issues are listed in the table below.
 
Page  55
51
No. Expected 
outcome 
/
Activity 
Description 
Status Target 
Date 
Comments 
1. 
Creati
on of  a tender 
committee at 
ENTRO 
In process 
Aug 15, 
2009 
The Committee needs to be headed by a 
senior project staff with members from EN 
countries and ENTRO’s project team   
2. 
Organizing training 
on Proposal 
evaluation 
Under 
preparation
Proposal 
submis
sion 
deadline 
for ENPM 
primary 
Consultant 
Evaluation committee members need to 
attend training before deadline of proposal 
submission for the main study consultancy 
3. 
Training  needs to 
be assessed and 
conducted as 
required 
Recurrent 
To be 
determined
Procurement training will be a part of 
ENTRO training needs currently being 
assessed.  Procurement Officer and 
assistant PO will get additional 
refreshment training. 
4. 
ENTRO to review 
its internal 
processes to make 
them more efficient
Recurrent 
To be 
determined
ENTRO undertakes some unnecessary 
steps in its procurement processes due to 
its set up and reporting requirements e.g. 
17 typical steps to recruit an Individual 
Consultant (see below).  The harmonized 
NBI procurement manual will address this 
and once adopted will be implemented by 
ENTRO  
12. Typical steps followed by ENTRO in the recruitment of an Individual Consultant that need to be 
streamlined to avoid delays in getting consultants on board: 
 
1.  Position identified; 2.  TOR Prepared; 3.  Request for EOI drafted; 4.  TOR and Request for 
EOI approved; 5.  Advertisement placed in 3 or 9 member countries; 6.  Applications opened in a 
formal meeting; 7.  Long list prepared; 8.  Short List prepared; 9.  Short List approved; 10.  
Interviews conducted; 11.  Interview Report; 12.  Interview Report approved; 13.  Contract 
Negotiated; 14.  Contract drafted and Initialed; 15.  Draft Contract approved; 16.  Contract 
Awarded; 17.  Contract signed.
 
13. The overall project risk for procurement to the ENPM project is 
HIGH
 and the thresholds for prior 
review, for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) including the maximum contract value for which the 
short list of consultants may comprise exclusively national firms in the selection of consultants are 
presented in the table below:  The contracts whose values are below the prior review threshold but which 
will be subject to prior review are indicated in the procurement plan. 
 
Table of Thresholds 
CATEGORY 
PRIOR REVIEW 
THRESHOLD ($) 
ICB 
THRESHOLD ($) 
NATIONAL SHORT LIST 
MAX VALUE ($) 
Goods >500,000 
>500,000 
NA 
Consultants (Firms) 
>200,000 
NA 
<200,000 
Consultants (Individuals) 
>100,000 
NA 
NA 
Page  56
52
C.  Procurement Plan 
 
14. The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementation which provides 
the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank 
Team on June 19, 2009 is attached at the end of this Annex and is available at the ENTRO office in Addis 
Ababa.  
It will also be available in the project’s database and in the Bank’s external website. The 
Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect 
the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity. 
 
D.  Frequency of Procurement Supervision 
 
15. In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity 
assessment of the Implementing Agency has recommended emi-annual supervision missions to visit the 
field to carry out post review of procurement actions. 
 
E.  Details of the Procurement Arrangements - 
Procurement Plan
 
1.  Goods, Works, and Non Consulting Services 
 
(a) List of contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting: 
None expected. 
 
(b) All ICB and contracts estimated to cost above $500,000 per contract and all direct contracting will be 
subject to prior review by the Bank.  The first two contracts for goods procured through the methods other 
than ICB will be subject to prior review by the Bank. 
 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Ref. 
No. 
 
Contract  
(Description) 
 
Estimated 
Cost ($) 
 
Procurement 
Method 
 
Pre-
qualification 
(yes/no) 
 
Domestic 
Preference 
(yes/no) 
 
Review 
by Bank 
(Prior / 
Post) 
 
Expected 
Bid-Opening 
Date  
 
Comments 
I
Goods 
 
1
Procurement of 
IT/Office Equipment and  
soft ware for ENTRO 
HQ 
75,000 
(split into 
packages) 
 Shopping  
NO 
NO 
Prior 
2
nd
 quarter of 
2010 
In lots as 
appropriate 
 
2
Procurement of Datasets/ 
Satellite Imagery 
75,000 
(split into 
packages) 
Shopping NO 
NO 
Prior 
2
nd
 quarter of 
2010
 
Several 
Contracts 
3
Procurement of 
IT/Office Equipment and 
soft ware for Ethiopia 
ENPM Office & 
University Outreach 
Center 
50,000 
 
Shopping 
 
NO 
 
NO 
 
POST 
 
2
nd
 quarter of 
2010
 
1
contract 
 
3
Procurement of 
IT/Office Equipment and 
soft ware for Egypt 
ENPM Office & 
University Outreach 
Center 
50,000 
 
Shopping 
 
NO 
 
NO 
 
POST 
 
2
nd
 quarter of 
2010
 
1
contract 
 
4
Procurement of 
IT/Office Equipment and 
soft ware for Sudan 
ENPM Office & 
University Outreach 
Center 
50,000 
 
Shopping 
 
NO 
 
NO 
 
POST 
 
2
nd
 quarter of 
2010
 
1
contract 
 
Page  57
53
2.  Consulting Services
 
(a) Consultancy services estimated to cost US$200,000 or more per contract for firms and assignments 
estimated to cost above $100,000 for individuals and all single source selection of consultants will be 
subject to prior review by the Bank. 
 
(b) Short lists composed entirely of consultants who are nationals of the EN member countries: Short lists 
of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be composed 
entirely of consultants who are nationals of the EN member countries in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Ref. No. 
 
Description of 
Assignment 
 
Estimated  
Cost 
 
Selection  
Method 
 
Review 
by Bank 
(Prior / 
Post) 
 
Expected  
Proposals 
Submission  
Date  
 
Comments 
I
Consulting Firm 
 
1
Consultancy Service 
for ENPM 
2,500,000 
QBS 
Prior 
Nov. 2009 
30 months 
II Individual 
Consultants 
–
ENTRO  HQ
 
2
ENPM Regional 
Program Coordinator 
252,000  
 
Aug. 
2009 36 
months 
4
Regional Modeling 
Specialist 
216,000 IC 
Prior 
Sep. 
2009  36 
months 
5
Regional 
Information 
Management 
Specialist 
216,000 IC 
Prior 
Sep. 
2009  36 
months 
7
Regional ENPM 
Water resources 
Planning Specialist 
50,000 
IC 
Prior  
Sep. 2009 
10 months 
8
Regional ENPM 
Environmental 
Specialist 
50,000 IC 
Post 
Sep. 
2009 10 
months 
9
Regional ENPM 
Economist 
50,000 IC 
Post 
Sep. 
2009 10 
months 
10 Regional 
Social 
Development/Comm
unication Specialist 
50,000 IC 
Post 
Sep. 
2009 10 
months
 
11 
Expert Panel - Water 
Resource Modeling 
Specialist  
60,000 IC 
Post 
Dec. 
2009 3 
months 
12 
Expert Panel - Multi-
criteria Project 
Appraisal Specialist 
60,000 IC 
Post 
Dec. 
2010 3 
months 
13 Expert 
Panel 
- 
Information Systems 
Specialist 
60,000 IC 
Post 
Dec. 
2009 3 
months 
14 
Special Studies  
100,000 
IC 
Post 
Apr. 2010 
Multiple 
15 
Additional  Staff at 
ENTRO (FM/ 
Procurement/ team 
support) 
100,000 IC 
Post 
Sep. 
2009  As 
required 
III Individual 
Consultants 
–
ENPM Offices in Egypt/ Sudan/ Ethiopia
 
16 Technical 
Modeling 
Officer Ethiopia 
126,000 
IC 
Prior 
Oct. 2009 
36 months 
17 
Inform
ation 
72,000 
IC 
POST 
Oct. 2009 
36 months 
Page  58
54
management Officer 
Ethiopia 
18 Technical 
Modeling 
Officer Sudan 
126,000 
IC 
Prior 
Oct. 2009 
36 months 
19 Information 
management Officer 
Sudan 
72, 000 
IC 
POST 
Oct. 2009 
36 months 
20 Technical 
Modeling 
Officer Egypt 
126,000 
IC 
Prior 
Oct. 2009 
36 months 
21 Information 
management Officer 
Egypt 
72,000 
IC 
POST 
Oct. 2009 
36 months 
IV
 
Training and Work Shops
 
22 ENTRO 
Training 
and Workshops 
200,000  
Post 
 
Multiple 
23 Ethiopia 
Training 
and Workshops
 
20,000  
Post 
 
Multiple 
24 Sudan 
Training 
and 
Workshops
 
20,000  
Post 
 
Multiple 
25 Egypt 
Training 
and 
Workshops
 
20,000  
Post 
 
Multiple 
1V Operating 
Expenses
 
26 ENTRO 
Operating 
Expenses (Travel, 
internships, web 
hosting and office 
expenses) 
445,000  
 
 
Multiple 
27 Ethiopia 
ENPM 
Office Operating 
Expenses
 
186,000  
 
 
Multiple 
28 
Sudan ENPM Office 
Operating Expenses
 
186,000  
 
 
Multiple 
29 
Egypt ENPM Office 
Operating Expenses
 
186,000  
 
 
Multiple 
Page  59
55
Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis 
EASTERN AFRICA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model
 
1.  The Project will contribute to the overall success of the ENSAP by generating the necessary 
shared knowledge base and modeling tools and frameworks.  While the Project will generate 
direct economic benefits (e.g. information base, capacity building and training of ENTRO, EN 
countries, and associated staff, analytical tools, stakeholder involvement), the economic benefits 
of these are difficult to quantify.  
 
2. 
However, the true benefits of the Project will result from the actual use of the knowledge base 
and analytical tools, as well as the associated process of building these frameworks (e.g. 
stakeholder involvement), and most importantly, the identification, evaluation (including cost-
benefit analysis, sensitivity analysis, investment scenario comparison), and prioritization of 
water-related investments within the regional context. 
 
3. 
The ENPM costs compare favorably to the initial phases of similar decision support systems in 
other parts of the world and are expected to be well worth the investment given its impact on 
designing and selecting investment scenarios that are expected to cost billions of USD.  It is 
expected that the benefits arising from the early identifica
tion of “win-win” investment strategies 
(analyzed at regional level through the ENPM) and strengthening regional interaction would far 
outweigh the cost of the ENPM project.  
 
Page  60
56
Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues 
EASTERN AFRICA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model
 
1. 
This recipient-executed trust fund technical assistance project is not expected to have any adverse 
environmental or social impacts; in fact, the aim of the project is to build local and regional 
knowledge, stakeholder processes, and institutional capacity to better handle environmental and 
social issues in water resources planning.  The project has thus been categorized as Category C.  
2. 
Environment:
 There are expected to be no significant adverse environmental impacts of the 
ENPM project.  The project seeks to improve the systematic management of the growing 
environmental knowledge base of the region, collating information on the climate, water 
resources, land, and known environmental impacts of investments.  The modeling to be supported 
intends to try and capture the often neglected but critical environmental impacts of proposed 
investments.  As in the social case, the comprehensiveness of this difficult task will depend on the 
state of the knowledge base and relationships to be modeled with the available information.  The 
institutional capacity to better manage environmental issues will be strengthened through staffing 
(environmental experts and interns), training, university partnerships, and awareness-building 
efforts.  
3.  OP 7.50 (Project on International Waterways) does not apply to the project since there are no 
investments of the type contemplated in paragraph 2 of OP 7.50.  The project, which involves 
neither physical water resources investments nor detailed design and engineering studies, seeks to 
assist in the development of modeling tools to identify water-related investments and evaluate 
them in a regional context. Furthermore, as no water resources surveys or feasibility studies on 
the Nile River are to be undertaken under the project, the issue of the exception to the 
notification, and the requirement for a memorandum to the RVP for that purpose does not arise 
either.  The Eastern Nile Council of Ministers (ENCOM) has approved the ENPM project and the 
Council of Ministers of Water Affairs of the Nile Basin Countries (NILECOM) of the Nile Basin 
Initiative (NBI) has taken note of it while discussing the Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program 
All three current members of the Eastern Nile Technical Regional Organisation (Egypt, Ethiopia, 
and Sudan) have provided letters of commitment to support its implementation. Eritrea is located 
in the Nile basin and has observer status in NBI. Should Eritrea join NBI as a full member, all 
efforts will be made to restructure the project to include it upon request of the NBI.  
4. 
Social:
 The project is not expected to have any significant adverse social impacts.  The social 
knowledge base on the Eastern Nile is not well established or organized.  The ENPM would seek 
to collate available social information, including what is known about the social impacts of 
proposed projects.  The modeling tools, that often neglect social issues, are being designed at the 
request of the ENPM regional working group to try to best capture social issues in evaluating and 
comparing scenarios.  This is difficult and much of the initial effort in the ENPM will be in 
examining the depth of the available knowledge base (e.g. people that need to be resettled for 
particular projects depends on whether pre/feasibility studies or other relevant surveys have been 
conducted) and outlining social impact indicators and relationships that can be modeled 
effectively (e.g. jobs per ha of irrigated area developed in different locations) with the available 
information.  Broad stakeholder awareness and participation is limited in many such modeling 
efforts.  The ENPM has already initiated stakeholder participation through a multi-sectoral 
regional working group that has guided the ENPM preparation.  It is expected that a major role of 
the ENPM is to improve stakeholder awareness and interaction in order to develop a shared 
understanding of potential water investments in a regional context and guide the development of 
the knowledge base and analytical tools.  Social capital is being built through project staffing 
(social development experts and interns), training, information dissemination, meetings, 
university partnerships and just working together across sectors and countries to better understand 
Page  61
57
how the significant potential of the Eastern Nile can be harnessed to improve livelihoods and 
reduce vulnerability, especially of the poor. 
5. 
Furthermore, a ‘Strategy for Addressing Environmental and Social Safeguards’ was developed 
under the NBI Institutional Strengthening Project in 2008. This document is applicable to all 
technical assistance projects that fall under NBI. The ongoing NBI Institutional Strengthening 
Project will support the development of a Nile safeguards framework that will set the ground 
rules for investment operations in the Nile Basin. 
 
Page  62
58
Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision 
EASTERN AFRICA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model
 
Planned Actual 
PCN review 
- 
December 5, 2006 
Initial PID to PIC 
 
May 2, 2006 
Initial ISDS to PIC 
 
July 26, 2006 
Appraisal 
 
July 29, 2009 
Negotiations 
 
July 29-31, 2009 
Board/RVP approval (Grant Agreement) 
August 15, 2009 
 
Planned date of effectiveness 
August 15, 2009 
 
Planned date of mid-term review 
March 31, 2011 
 
Planned closing date 
October 30, 2012 
 
Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project:  
(i) 
The Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia 
(ii) 
The Federal Ministry of Water Resources, Government of Ethiopia 
(iii)  The Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources, Government of Sudan 
(iv)  The Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation, Government of Egypt 
(v) 
Eastern Nile Planning Model Regional Working Group (drawn from all three countries) 
(vi)  ENPM Project Preparation Consultants (Riverside Technology, Inc., USA) 
 
Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included: 
Name Title 
Unit 
N. Harshadeep 
Senior Environmental Specialist (TTL) 
SASDI 
E.V. Jagannathan  
Senior Water Resources Engineer (Co-TTL) 
AFTWR 
Barbara Miller  
Lead Water Resources Specialist (Cluster Leader) 
AFTWR 
Winston Yu 
Water Resources Specialist 
SASDA 
Roxanne Hakim 
Senior Anthropologist 
AFTS2 
Tafesse Freminatos 
Abrham 
Senior Financial Management Specialist 
AFTFM 
Richard Olowo 
Senior Procurement Specialist 
AFTPC 
Evarist Baimu 
Counsel 
LEGAF 
Daryl Fields 
Senior Hydropower Specialist 
ETWWA 
Astrid Hillers 
Senior Environmental Specialist 
ENV 
Zaure Schwade 
Operations Analyst 
AFTWR 
Duncan Burrell 
Operations Analyst 
OPCFC 
Mikael A Ketsela 
Operations Analyst 
AFTWR 
Eileen Burke 
Operations Analyst 
AFTWR 
Thembi Kumapley 
Team Assistant 
AFTWR 
Lakech Tsegaye 
Team Assistant 
AFCE3 
Peer Reviewers:
 Don Blackmore (former CEO of the Murray-Darling Basin Authority, Australia), 
Walter Garvey (former Regional Water Advisor, SAR), Rita Cestti (Sr. Rural Development Specialist, 
OPCQC), and Vahid Alavian (then Water Advisor, ARD; now Advisor, AFTEG) 
 
Bank Budget 
Nile Basin Trust Fund 
Preparation up to Grant Agreement signing 
$10,000 
$80,000 
Supervision (annual budget) 
$30,000 
$80,000 
Page  63
59
Annex 12: Documents in the Project File 
EASTERN AFRICA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model
 
The key ENPM Project Documents in the Project File include: 
·
ENPM International Workshop Presentations 
·
ENPM Project Concept Note 
·
ENPM Project Information Document 
·
ENPM Project Integrated Safeguards Data sheet 
·
ENPM Project Preparation Consultant Report 
·
ENPM Project Implementation Plan 
 
Other Related Documents 
·
NBI Overview 
·
ENSAPT Project Documents 
·
Eastern Nile One-System Inventory (hydrologic, environmental and socio-economic data) 
·
Scoping Study of Opportunities for Cooperative Development of the Eastern Nile (2008). 
·
Comments on the Scoping Study of the JMP (Egypt, Aug 2008) 
·
Joint Multipurpose Program (JMP) Reports 
·
A
Report on Institutional and Legal Considerations Associated with Achieving a JMP 
·
EN Watershed Management Cooperative Regional Assessment (CRA) Report 
·
Reports of EN Regional Power Trade Study Phase 1, including pre-feasibility studies of Mendaya, 
Border and Dal multipurpose dams 
·
EN Irrigation and Drainage Cooperative Regional Assessment (CRA) Report 
·
A
Report on the Implications of Climate Change on Potential Multipurpose Storage on the 
Abbay/Blue Nile 
Page  64
60
Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits 
EASTERN AFRICA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model 
 
Original Amount in US$ Millions 
 
 
Difference between 
expected and actual 
disbursements 
Project ID 
FY 
Purpose 
IBRD 
IDA 
SF 
GEF 
Cancel. 
Undisb. 
Orig. 
Frm. Rev’d 
Total: 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
EASTERN AFRICA 
STATEMENT OF IFC’s 
Held and Disbursed Portfolio 
In Millions of US Dollars 
 
Committed Disbursed 
IFC 
 
IFC 
 
FY Approval 
Company 
Loan 
Equity 
Quasi 
Partic. 
Loan 
Equity 
Quasi 
Partic. 
Total portfolio: 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
Approvals Pending Commitment 
FY Approval 
Company 
Loan 
Equity 
Quasi 
Partic. 
Total pending commitment: 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
Page  65
61
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF:  Eastern Nile Planning Model 
 
Original Amount in US$ Millions 
 
 
Difference between 
expected and actual 
disbursements 
Project ID 
FY 
Purpose 
IBRD 
IDA 
SF 
GEF 
Cancel. 
Undisb. 
Orig. 
Frm. Rev’d 
P101103 2009 
EGYPT-RAILWAYS 
RESTRUCTURING 270.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 270.00 
0.00 
0.00 
P100047 2009 
EG-Ain 
Sokhna 
Power 
600.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 600.00 
0.00 
0.00 
P095392 2008 
EG-NATURAL 
GAS 
CONNECTIONS 
75.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00  75.00 
0.00 
0.00 
P094311 2008 
EG INTEGRATED SANITATION & 
SEWERAGE INFR 
120.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
120.00 1.00  0.00 
P087970 
2007 
West Delta Water Conserv. & Irrig. Rehab 
145.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
145.00 
90.00 
0.00 
P093470 2007 
EG-MORTGAGE 
FINANCE 
37.10 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00  12.27 
-3.57 
0.00 
P091945 2006 
EG-EL 
TEBBIN 
POWER 
259.60 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 159.46 
58.26 
32.08 
P090073 2006 
EG-Second 
Pollution 
Abatement 
20.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00  16.74 
10.74 
10.74 
P082952 2005 
EG-Early Childhood Education 
Enhancement 
20.00  0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 16.05 12.48 
0.00 
P073977 2005 
EG-INTEGRATED IRRIGATION IMPR. 
&
MGT 
120.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
111.57 
36.57  2.83 
P082914 2004 
EG-AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT 
PROJECT 
375.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
40.24 0.24 21.63 
P049702 
2004 
EG-SKILLS 
DEVELOPMENT 
5.50 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.69 1.69 -0.53 
P045499 2000 
EG-NATIONAL 
DRAINAGE 
II 
50.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.63 
0.63 
0.65 
P050484 1999 
EG Secondary Education Enhancement 
Proj 
0.00 50.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 19.92 16.89 
2.54 
P049166 
1998 
EG East Delta Ag. Serv. 
0.00 
15.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.62 
3.30 
2.28 
2.02 
 
Total: 
2,097.20 
  65.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.62 
1,591.87 
 227.21 
  71.96 
Page  66
62
 
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF 
STATEMENT OF IFC’s 
Held and Disbursed Portfolio 
In Millions of US Dollars 
 
Committed Disbursed 
IFC 
 
IFC 
 
FY Approval 
Company 
Loan 
Equity 
Quasi 
Partic. 
Loan 
Equity 
Quasi 
Partic. 
1996 
ANSDK 
1.33 
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.56 0.00 0.00 0.00 
2004 
Alexandria 
Fiber 
8.00 
0.00 0.00 0.00 7.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
2001 
Amreya 
4.69 
0.00 0.00 0.00 4.69 0.00 0.00 0.00 
2006 
CIB 
LLC 
0.00 
0.72 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.48 0.00 0.00 
1999 
CIL 
0.00 
0.74 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.74 0.00 0.00 
2004 
CIL 
0.00 
0.15 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.15 0.00 0.00 
1992 
Carbon 
Black-EGT 
0.00 
1.48 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.48 0.00 0.00 
1997 
Carbon 
Black-EGT 
0.00 
1.48 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.48 0.00 0.00 
1998 
Carbon 
Black-EGT 
4.00 
0.00 0.00 0.00 4.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
2000 
Carbon 
Black-EGT 
5.00 
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
2002 
Ceramica 
Al-Amir 
3.33 
0.00 0.00 0.00 3.33 0.00 0.00 0.00 
2006 
Cmrcl 
Intl 
Bank 
0.00 
23.28 0.00 0.00 0.00 
23.03 0.00 0.00 
2006 
EFG 
Hermes 
20.00 
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
2004 
EHF 
0.00 
1.70 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.70 0.00 0.00 
2005 
Egypt 
Factors 
0.00 
3.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
2006 
Gippsland 
0.00 
4.61 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.03 0.00 0.00 
2001 
IT 
Worx 
0.00 
2.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.00 0.00 0.00 
2004 
Lecico 
Egypt 
8.94 
0.00 0.00 0.00 8.94 0.00 0.00 0.00 
1986 
Meleiha 
Oil 
0.00 
8.62 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
1988 
Meleiha 
Oil 
0.00 
9.20 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
1992 
Meleiha 
Oil 
0.00 
13.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.94 0.00 0.00 
2005 
Merlon 
Egypt 
1.00 
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
2002 
Metro 
10.50 
0.00 0.00 0.00 
10.50 0.00 0.00 0.00 
1992 
Misr 
Compressor 
9.70 
0.00 0.00 0.00 9.70 0.00 0.00 0.00 
 
Orix 
Leasing 
EGT 
4.00 
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
1996 
Orix 
Leasing 
EGT 
0.00 
0.53 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.53 0.00 0.00 
2001 
Orix 
Leasing 
EGT 
1.09 
0.00 0.00 0.00 1.09 0.00 0.00 0.00 
2001 
Port 
Said 
41.07 
0.00 0.00 
132.53 41.07 0.00 0.00 
132.53 
2002 
SEKEM 
4.18 
0.00 0.00 0.00 4.18 0.00 0.00 0.00 
2006 
SONUT 
10.00 
0.00 4.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 
2004 
SPDC 
18.40 
0.00 0.00 0.00 
18.40 0.00 0.00 0.00 
2001 
SUEZ 
GULF 
40.40 
0.00 0.00 
129.07 40.40 0.00 0.00 
129.07 
1997 
UNI 
2.05 
0.00 0.00 0.00 2.05 0.00 0.00 0.00 
2001 
UNI 
2.06 
0.00 0.00 0.00 2.06 0.00 0.00 0.00 
2005 
Wadi 
Group 
15.00 
0.00 0.00 0.00 7.50 0.00 0.00 0.00 
 
Total portfolio: 
 214.74 
  70.51 
   4.00 
 261.60 
 165.47 
  34.56 
   0.00 
 261.60 
Page  67
63
 
Approvals Pending Commitment 
FY Approval 
Company 
Loan 
Equity 
Quasi 
Partic. 
2004 ACB 
Acrylic 
0.00  0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
2004 Merlon 
Egypt 
0.00  0.00 
0.00 
0.02 
2000 ACB 
Expansn 
III 
0.00  0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
2006 Rally 
Energy 
0.01  0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
 
Total pending commitment: 
   0.01 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.02 
Page  68
64
ETHIOPIA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model 
 
Original Amount in US$ Millions 
 
 
Difference between 
expected and actual 
disbursements 
Project ID 
FY 
Purpose 
IBRD 
IDA 
SF 
GEF 
Cancel. 
Undisb. 
Orig. 
Frm. Rev’d 
P113156 2009 
ETHIOPIA GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS 
RESPONSE PRO 
0.00 250.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
9.41 
-9.00 
0.00 
P106855 
2009 
ET-General Educ Quality Improv. (FY09) 
0.00 
50.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
51.60 
0.00 
0.00 
P096323 
2008 
ET-Tana &Beles Int.  Wat Res Dev Project 
0.00 
45.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
37.91 
-3.00 
0.00 
P101474 2008 
ET-Urban Local Govt Development 
(FY08) 
0.00 150.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 122.67 
-5.31 
0.00 
P101556 
2008 
 ET-Elect. Access Rural II SIL (FY07) 
0.00 
130.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
132.72 
43.19 
0.00 
P074011 
2008 
ET/Nile 
Basin 
Initiative:ET-SU 
Interconn  0.00 
41.05 0.00 0.00 0.00 
36.16 4.85  0.00 
P106228 
2008 
ET- Ethiopia Nutrition SIL (FY08) 
0.00 
30.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
26.69 
-3.00 
0.00 
P107139 
2008 
ET-Sustainable Land Mngt SIL (FY08) 
0.00 
20.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
18.10 
-0.50 
0.00 
P108932 2008 
ET-Pastoral Community Develpt  II 
(FY08) 
0.00 80.00 
0.00  0.00 
0.00 63.52 
1.00 
0.00 
P101473 
2007 
ET-Urban WSS SIL FY07) 
0.00 
100.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
87.29 
8.66 
0.00 
P098031 2007 
ET-Multi-Sectoral 
HIV/AIDS 
II 
(FY07) 
0.00  30.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00  17.63 
17.37 
0.00 
P092353 
2007 
ET-Irrigation & Drainage SIL (FY07) 
0.00 
100.00 
0.00 
0.00 
10.00 
77.03 
33.73 
0.00 
P091077 
2007 
ET-APL3-RSDP Stage III Proj (FY07) 
0.00 
225.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
200.50 
25.97 
0.00 
P079275 
2006 
ET- Cap. Building for Agric. Serv (FY06) 
0.00 
54.00 
0.00 
0.00 
13.00 
27.44 
5.52 
-1.80 
P094704 
2006 
ET-Financial Sector Cap Bldg. Project 
0.00 
15.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
12.51 
7.04 
0.00 
P097271 
2006 
ET-Electricity Access (Rural) Expansion 
0.00 
133.40 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
111.34 
95.85 
0.00 
P074015 
2006 
ET-Protection of Basic Services (FY06) 
0.00 
430.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
20.21 
-209.88 
0.00 
P082998 2005 
ET-Road Sec Dev Prgm Ph 2 Supl 2  
(FY05) 
0.00 248.20 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 137.35 
22.57 
-6.87 
P078692 
2005 
ET-Post Secondary Education SIL (FY05) 
0.00 
40.00 
0.00 
0.00 
15.00 
7.70 
20.58 
0.00 
P078458 
2005 
ET-ICT Assisted Dev SIM (FY05) 
0.00 
25.00 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
15.31 
13.63 
6.22 
P050272 
2005 
ET-Priv Sec Dev CB (FY05) 
0.00 
24.00 
0.00 
0.00 
7.00 
10.30 
8.85 
2.71 
P074020 
2004 
ET-Pub Sec Cap Bldg Prj (FY04) 
0.00 
100.00 
0.00 
0.00 
20.00 
15.00 
29.05 
0.00 
P076735 
2004 
ET-Water Sply & Sanitation SIL (FY04) 
0.00 
100.00 
0.00 
0.00 
13.00 
44.86 
39.97 
0.00 
P049395 
2003 
ET-Energy Access SIL (FY03) 
0.00 
132.70 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
96.92 
71.88 
69.35 
P044613 
2003 
ET-RSDP APL1  (FY03) 
0.00 
126.80 
0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
19.45 
4.74 
0.00 
P050383 
2002 
ET-Food Security SIL (FY02) 
0.00 
85.00 
0.00 
0.00 
35.00 
2.06 
17.15 
-13.87 
 
Total: 
   0.00 
2,765.15 
   0.00 
   0.00 
 113.00 
1,401.68 
 240.91 
  55.74 
Page  69
65
 
ETHIOPIA 
STATEMENT OF IFC’s 
Held and Disbursed Portfolio 
In Millions of US Dollars 
 
Committed Disbursed 
IFC 
 
IFC 
 
FY Approval 
Company 
Loan 
Equity 
Quasi 
Partic. 
Loan 
Equity 
Quasi 
Partic. 
Total portfolio: 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
Approvals Pending Commitment 
FY Approval 
Company 
Loan 
Equity 
Quasi 
Partic. 
Total pending commitment: 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
Page  70
66
 
SUDAN:  Eastern Nile Planning Model 
 
Original Amount in US$ Millions 
 
 
Difference between 
expected and actual 
disbursements 
Project ID 
FY 
Purpose 
IBRD 
IDA 
SF 
GEF 
Cancel. 
Undisb. 
Orig. 
Frm. Rev’d 
Total: 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
SUDAN 
STA
TEMENT OF IFC’s 
Held and Disbursed Portfolio 
In Millions of US Dollars 
 
Committed Disbursed 
IFC 
 
IFC 
 
FY Approval 
Company 
Loan 
Equity 
Quasi 
Partic. 
Loan 
Equity 
Quasi 
Partic. 
Total portfolio: 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
Approvals Pending Commitment 
FY Approval 
Company 
Loan 
Equity 
Quasi 
Partic. 
Total pending commitment: 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
   0.00 
Page  71
67
Annex 14: Country at a Glance 
EASTERN AFRICA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model 
 
Ethiopia at a glance
9/24/08
Sub-
P
OVERTY and SOCIAL
S
aharan
L
ow-
Ethiopia
Africa
income
2007
P
opulation, mid-year 
(
millions)
7
9.1
8
00
1
,296
G
NI per capita 
(Atlas method, US$)
2
20
9
52
5
78
GNI 
(Atlas method, US$ billions)
17.6
762
749
Average annual growth, 2001-07
Population 
(%)
2.6
2.5
2.2
Labor force 
(%)
2.9
2.6
2.7
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 2001-07)
Poverty 
(% of population below  national poverty line)
..
..
..
Urban population 
(% of total population)
17
36
32
L
ife expectancy at birth 
(
years)
5
2
5
1
5
7
Infant mortality 
(per 1,000 live births)
77
94
85
Child malnutrition 
(% of children under 5)
35
27
29
Access to an improved water source 
(% of population)
42
58
68
Literacy 
(% of population age 15+)
36
59
61
Gross primary enrollment  
(% of school-age population)
91
94
94
Male
97
99
100
Female
85
88
89
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1987
1997
2006
2007
GDP 
(US$ billions)
10.4
8.9
15.2
19.4
Gross capital formation/GDP
16.1
19.8
24.2
25.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP
6.0
11.4
13.8
12.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP
10.5
13.2
1.5
5.5
Gross national savings/GDP
11.9
17.8
15.1
20.7
Current account balance/GDP
-4.2
-2.2
-9.1
-4.5
I
nterest payments/GDP
0
.6
0
.5
0
.4
.
.
Total debt/GDP
70.5
113.3
15.3
..
Total debt service/exports
38.3
9.5
7.1
..
Present value of debt/GDP
..
..
5.9
..
Present value of debt/exports
..
..
38.7
..
1987-97
1997-07
2006
2007
2007-11
(average annual growth)
GDP
2.0
6.2
10.9
11.1
..
GDP per capita
-1.3
3.3
8.0
8.4
..
Exports of goods and services
1.2
12.8
-0.2
10.2
..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1987
1997
2006
2007
(% of GDP)
Agriculture
54.3
57.6
47.9
46.3
Industry
13.3
10.7
12.7
13.4
Man ufact urin g
5.5
5.0
4.5
5.1
Services
32.5
31.7
39.4
40.3
Household final consumption expenditure
79.0
78.8
86.4
83.9
General gov't final consumption expenditure
10.6
8.0
12.1
10.6
Impor ts o f go ods a nd se rvices
11.7
17.9
36.5
32.2
1987-97
1997-07
2006
2007
(average annual growth)
Agriculture
3.1
4.3
10.9
9.4
Industry
-1.5
7.8
10.2
11.0
Man ufact urin g
-2.8
5.7
10.6
10.5
Services
1.5
7.7
12.9
13.9
Household final consumption expenditure
3.1
6.4
14.3
8.9
General gov't final consumption expenditure
-2.9
6.4
8.1
-3.8
Gross capital formation
-0.8
6.6
18.5
17.4
Impor ts o f go ods a nd se rvices
0.7
10.4
18.0
3.8
Note : 20 07 d ata  are prelimin ary e stimat es.
This table was produced from the Development Economics LDB database.
*
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will 
be incomplete.
-10
0
10
20
30
02
03
04
05
06
07
GCF
GDP
Growth of capital  and GDP (%)
 -10
 0
 10
 20
 30
 40
 020304
 050607
 Exports
 Imports
Growth of exports and imports (%)
Ethiopia
Low-income group
Development diamond*
: Life expectancy
Access to improved water source
GNI
per
capita
: Gross
: primary
: enrollment
Ethiopia
Low-income group
Economic ratios*
Trade
Indebtedness
Domestic
savings
Capital 
formation
Page  72
68
Egypt, Arab Rep. at a glance
9/24/08
M. East
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL
&
North
middle-
Egypt
Africa
income
2007
Population, mid-year 
(millions)
75.5
313
3,437
GNI per capita 
(Atlas method, US$)
1,580
2,794
1,887
GNI 
(Atlas method, US$ billions)
119.4
876
6,485
Average annual growth, 2001-07
Population 
(%)
1.8
1.8
1.1
Labor force 
(%)
2.8
3.6
1.5
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 2001-07)
Poverty 
(% of population below national poverty line)
..
..
..
Urban population 
(% of total population)
43
57
42
Life expectancy at birth 
(years)
71
70
69
Infant mortality 
(per 1,000 live births)
29
34
41
Child malnutrition 
(% of children under 5)
5
..
25
Access to an improved water source 
(% of population)
98
89
88
Literacy 
(% of population age 15+)
71
73
89
Gross primary enrollment  
(% of school-age population)
105
105
111
Male
107
108
112
Female
102
103
109
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1987
1997
2006
2007
GDP 
(US$ billions)
40.5
78.4
107.5
128.1
Gross capital formation/GDP
26.1
17.6
18.7
21.9
Exports of goods and services/GDP
12.6
18.8
29.9
31.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP
15.9
11.5
17.1
14.0
Gross national savings/GDP
19.1
17.3
22.0
24.3
Current account balance/GDP
-2.3
0.2
1.6
2.1
Interest payments/GDP
1.2
1.0
0.6
..
Total debt/GDP
109.0
38.4
27.3
..
Total debt service/exports
17.9
10.0
5.4
..
Present value of debt/GDP
..
..
24.0
..
Present value of debt/exports
..
..
63.1
..
1987-97
1997-07
2006
2007
2007-11
(average annual growth)
GDP
4.1
4.5
6.8
7.1
6.8
GDP per capita
2.0
2.6
4.9
5.2
5.7
Exports of goods and services
6.3
9.5
21.3
14.2
19.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1987
1997
2006
2007
(% of GDP)
Agriculture
20.5
17.0
14.1
13.0
Industry
27.1
31.2
38.4
35.5
Manufacturing
16.5
17.6
16.6
15.8
Services
52.4
51.8
47.5
51.5
Household final consumption expenditure
69.9
77.2
70.6
74.8
General gov't final consumption expenditure
14.3
11.3
12.3
11.2
Imports of goods and services
22.8
24.9
31.6
39.2
1987-97
1997-07
2006
2007
(average annual growth)
Agriculture
2.8
3.4
3.2
3.7
Industry
6.3
4.3
9.8
8.0
Manufacturing
5.3
4.9
5.9
7.6
Services
2.7
4.8
6.1
5.3
Household final consumption expenditure
4.7
3.4
5.2
6.5
General gov't final consumption expenditure
2.3
4.1
3.1
20.0
Gross capital formation
-1.2
4.7
13.3
30.1
Imports of goods and services
2.5
6.7
21.8
27.8
Note: 2007 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics LDB database.
*
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will 
be incomplete.
-20
0
20
40
02
03
04
05
06
07
GCF
GDP
Growth of capital and GDP (%)
-10
0
10
20
30
02
03
04
05
06
07
Exports
Imports
Growth of exports and imports (%)
Egypt, Arab Rep.
Lower-middle-income group
Development diamond*
Life expectancy
Access to improved water source
GNI
per
capita
Gross
primary
enrollment
Egypt, Arab Rep.
Lower-middle-income group
Economic ratios*
Trade
Indebtedness
Domestic
savings
Capital 
formation
Page  73
69
Sudan at a glance
9/24/08
Sub-
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL
Saharan
middle-
Sudan
Africa
income
2007
Population, mid-year 
(millions)
38.6
800
3,437
GNI per capita 
(Atlas method, US$)
950
952
1,887
GNI 
(Atlas method, US$ billions)
36.7
762
6,485
Average annual growth, 2001-07
Population 
(%)
2.1
2.5
1.1
Labor force 
(%)
2.7
2.6
1.5
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 2001-07)
Poverty 
(% of population below national poverty line)
..
..
..
Urban population 
(% of total population)
43
36
42
Life expectancy at birth 
(years)
58
51
69
Infant mortality 
(per 1,000 live births)
61
94
41
Child malnutrition 
(% of children under 5)
..
27
25
Access to an improved water source 
(% of population)
70
58
88
Literacy 
(% of population age 15+)
..
59
89
Gross primary enrollment  
(% of school-age population)
66
94
111
Male
71
99
112
Female
61
88
109
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1987
1997
2006
2007
GDP 
(US$ billions)
20.6
11.7
36.4
46.2
Gross capital formation/GDP
15.1
15.8
24.8
24.2
Exports of goods and services/GDP
5.5
5.3
16.5
20.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP
9.5
8.6
13.9
20.5
Gross national savings/GDP
12.0
9.5
9.7
11.9
Current account balance/GDP
-2.1
-6.3
-15.1
-12.4
Interest payments/GDP
0.1
0.0
0.1
..
Total debt/GDP
54.5
139.8
52.6
..
Total debt service/exports
12.0
9.0
4.8
..
Present value of debt/GDP
..
..
56.4
..
Present value of debt/exports
..
..
336.4
..
1987-97
1997-07
2006
2007
2007-11
(average annual growth)
GDP
4.2
6.6
11.3
10.2
8.8
GDP per capita
1.7
4.3
8.9
7.7
7.3
Exports of goods and services
-1.2
21.7
0.4
33.6
..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1987
1997
2006
2007
(% of GDP)
Agriculture
32.8
46.8
30.1
28.3
Industry
16.3
14.6
29.2
30.7
Manufacturing
8.8
8.8
6.3
6.1
Services
50.9
38.6
40.8
41.0
Household final consumption expenditure
77.8
86.0
69.4
64.8
General gov't final consumption expenditure
12.8
5.4
16.7
14.8
Imports of goods and services
11.1
12.5
27.5
23.9
1987-97
1997-07
2006
2007
(average annual growth)
Agriculture
4.7
2.0
4.4
3.1
Industry
4.8
12.5
16.4
20.0
Manufacturing
4.5
3.4
1.5
6.0
Services
3.0
8.2
14.1
10.0
Household final consumption expenditure
3.6
4.7
11.4
1.4
General gov't final consumption expenditure
1.3
11.4
11.7
-3.0
Gross capital formation
10.5
11.7
15.9
7.4
Imports of goods and services
3.4
14.6
8.2
-4.4
Note: 2007 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics LDB database.
*
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will 
be incomplete.
0
10
20
30
02
03
04
05
06
07
GCF
GDP
Growth of capital and GDP (%)
-20
0
20
40
60
02
03
04
05
06
07
Exports
Imports
Growth of exports and imports (%)
Sudan
Lower-middle-income group
Development diamond*
Life expectancy
Access to improved water source
GNI
per
capita
Gross
primary
enrollment
Sudan
Lower-middle-income group
Economic ratios*
Trade
Indebtedness
Domestic
savings
Capital 
formation
Page  74
70
Annex 15: Maps 
EASTERN AFRICA:  Eastern Nile Planning Model 
 
