Page  1
N
ILE 
B
ASIN 
I
NITIATIVE 
(NBI) 
 
S
TRATEGY FOR
 
A
DDRESSING 
E
NVIRONMENTAL AND 
S
OCIAL 
S
AFEGUARDS
 
U
NDER THE 
P
ROPOSED 
NBI I
NSTITUTIONAL 
S
TRENGTHENING 
P
ROJECT
1
W
ORLD 
B
ANK 
P
ROJECT 
#110616 
 
A. Background 
 
1. 
Through corporation and partnership, nine current member countries under the 
auspices of the Nile Basin Initiative (NBI)
2
,
are pursuing a common vision 
“to achieve 
sustainable socio-economic development through equitable utilization of, and benefits from, 
the common Nile Basin water resources”. Under this arrangement, (1) a Shared Vision 
Program (SVP), meant to build confidence and trust, as well as institutional capacity, so as to 
create a strong foundation for regional cooperation, and; (2) two sub-basin Subsidiary Action 
Programs (SAPs)
3
to bring about tangible benefits on the ground through identification and 
implementation of investment projects are under implementation as complementary elements 
of the NBI’s Strategic Action Program. 
2. 
To enable NBI begin to function as an international river basin organisation and to 
achieve its vision, the three main NBI institutions, namely the NBI Secretariat (Nile-SEC) in 
Entebbe, Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiary Action Program Coordination Unit (NELSAP-CU) in 
Kigali, and the Eastern Nile Technical Regional Office (ENTRO) in Addis Ababa, will receive 
support for institutional strengthening through the 3-year Institutional Strengthening Project 
(ISP).  The ISP’s development objective is to “
strengthen and consolidate a harmonised 
institutional architecture to effectively coordinate and implement NBI programs and projects 
supporting the one NBI Vision.
”
The ISP is designed to: (a) enhance the capability of NBI in 
corporate management; (b) build professional capabilities; and (c) clarify institutional options 
for a future permanent River basin organization.  The thrust of the ISP is to strengthen NBI in 
its execution of its present mandate and to have it well-placed to adapt and meet new 
challenges as and when required by member countries in the future.   
3. 
The ISP will not have direct social or environmental impacts as it is designed to provide 
technical assistance for institutional strengthening.  Nonetheless, ISP is classified under 
environmental screening category B as there may be social and environmental impacts 
associated with projects prepared by ENTRO and NELSAP-CU, when ISP strengthens 
capacity of these institutions to identify and prepare investment projects. NBI has prepared 
1
This document was updated to reflect current contact information in May 2009. 
2
The current NBI member countries are Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Sudan, 
Tanzania, and Uganda.  Eritrea is also a Nile Riparian and currently participates in the NBI as an observer. 
3
The 
two SAPs are namely the Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiary Action Program (NELSAP) and the Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action 
Program (ENSAP).
 
E2193 
Page  2
NBI ISP E
NVIRONMENTAL AND 
S
OCIAL 
A
CTION 
P
LAN
 
2
2
this document to outline NBI policy on environmental and social issues and how they will be 
addressed during project identification, preparation, and implementation.  This is in line with 
the World Bank's environmental and social safeguard policies to prevent and mitigate undue 
harm to people and their environment in the development process, build ownership among 
local populations and to substantially improve the effectiveness and development impact of 
projects and programs.   
 
B. 
Measures to Address Social and Environmental Impacts 
 
4. 
The NBI has taken steps to put in place systems and mechanisms to ensure 
environmental and social safeguards in all its interventions at the following three key levels: 
·
Basin-wide level 
·
Sub-basin (SAP) levels 
·
Project level. 
 
(B1) Basin-wide 
level 
 
5. T
he 
SVP Nile Trans-boundary Environment Action Project (NTEAP) is enhancing and 
working towards harmonisation of the environment policies of the riparian countries to include 
transboundary dimensions.  A basin-wide Environmental Framework which has been initiated 
will be continued and finalized during the implementation of ISP.  
6. 
The SVP projects have built significant capacity in the countries and at sub-basin 
institutions for sustainable resource management.  The skills and attitudinal change created 
through environment education and awareness at governance and community levels basin-
wide will further enhance this capacity.  ISP will work with NBI member governments to ensure 
that capacities built by SVP in Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) and Strategic Social 
and Environmental Assessment (SSEA) will be applied when setting national policy and best 
practice.  
7. 
Strategic EIA guidelines are to be developed by NTEAP, to provide clear internationally 
acceptable criteria for environmental screening of trans-boundary investment projects.  
Sector
–specific guidelines such as the trans-boundary environment guidelines for power 
investment projects are being developed by Regional Power Trade (RPT) as one of the 
instruments which NBI will apply to projects prepared under the SAPs to ensure safeguards 
are properly applied for power sector projects.  NBI currently performs due diligence and 
follows international good practice for each investment project under preparation.  All countries 
have agreed and mandated NBI Secretariat the role of prior-notification of any planned NBI 
investment in the basin likely to have trans-boundary effects, when requested by Nile 
countries and/or financiers.  
8. 
One of the activities under the NBI-ISP is the creation of a database of stakeholders for 
the Nile Basin region.  This aims to build an active database of a range of stakeholders 
concerned with NBI activities, including watch dog groups, NGOs, academics, private sector, 
community grounds, and commercial entities.  The goal of this exercise is to help projects 
target activities to appropriate groups to ensure participation and informed decision making.  
 
9. 
Other Sources of Funding. 
In the event that an identified / facilitated project is not 
accepted for financing under the NBI, but is funded through other sources, the NBI will submit 
a
written record to the government and financier of concerns related to environmental and/or 
social impacts. 
 
Page  3
NBI ISP E
NVIRONMENTAL AND 
S
OCIAL 
A
CTION 
P
LAN
 
3
3
(B2) Sub-basin 
(SAP) 
level 
10. 
The NBI develops investment projects through the two Subsidiary Action Programs; 
the Eastern Nile Subsidiary Action Program (ENSAP) and the Nile Equatorial Lakes 
Subsidiary Action Program (NELSAP).  Environmental and social safeguard measures such 
as Strategic / Sectoral Environment Assessment (SEA), Environmental Impact Assessments 
(EIA), Environmental Screening (ES), Social Assessment (SA), Resettlement Action Plan 
(RAP), and Resettlement Framework will therefore be applied and enforced at the SAP levels.   
11. 
To facilitate this process, the SVP assigned Social Development Officers and 
Communication Officers to each of the two SAPs through Confidence Building and 
Stakeholder Involvement (CBSI) project.  Through NTEAP, an Environment Specialist is soon 
to be assigned to each of the two SAPs.  These three officers are involved to ensure best 
practice, stakeholder participation and consideration of all social and environmental issues at 
all stages in the development cycle of investment projects.   ENTRO and NELSAP-CU 
environment and social staff will apply the environmental guidelines, and framework 
developed at NBI level to screen all proposed projects to ensure pre-feasibility and feasibility 
studies undertaken by the NBI include all necessary studies to identify and plan to mitigate 
environmental and social safeguard issues.   
12. 
Together with and guided at NBI corporate level, the SAPs promote and undertake 
regional studies and activities, such as the Strategic Social and Environmental Assessment for 
Power Options (SSEA) prepared under the NELSAP, which provides a framework for action 
on social and environmental concerns 
(synthesis report attached
).  Environment standards 
have been agreed upon by the SAPs.  These provide the minimum acceptable level of 
environment safeguard measures, and the role at NBI level is to monitor and ensure that these 
standards are adhered to.  At ENSAP, the three member countries have agreed and financed 
environmental professionals in all the power utilities.  Project Specific EIAs and related studies 
will be reviewed at SAP level.  See also paragraph 8 above on stakeholder database. 
13. 
The presence of these technical specialist at the SAPs, together with available World 
Bank guidelines on Environmental and Social Management Frameworks (ESMFs) will ensure 
(1) the mainstreaming of environmental issues into the NBI-ISP, including the building of 
capacity of riparian staff in implementation of SEA, and (2) the promotion of environmental 
issues in project preparation and to ensure compliance with the country specific EIA 
Regulations, technical capacity of the countries for ensuring an effective implementation of the 
environmental management process have been developed through the NTEAP. 
 
14. 
Public Consultation and Disclosure.
 
Public consultation is a cornerstone of the NBI; 
therefore, all environmental and social studies prepared by ENTRO or NELSAP-CU will be 
subject to consultation among affected stakeholders (including communities).  Furthermore, all 
such documents will be available to the public through the NBI regional, sub-regional, and 
national offices.  To facilitate this process, Public Consultation Frameworks for the two SAPs, 
have been developed through the SVP 
–
CBSI project.  SAPs will operationalise these 
frameworks. 
 
(B3) 
Project level social, environmental, and safeguard measures 
15. 
Numerous positive social and environmental impacts have been identified within the 
scope of this project. From a socio-economic perspective, the project’s activities will result in 
the improvement of governance of water resources management and development programs 
in the NBI and promotion of a cooperative spirit which will enhance the sustainable 
cooperative and consultative management of water resources development (WRD) projects. 
Specific interventions in the WRD component aim at facilitation of the identification, 
preparation and implementation of joint transboundary projects by the Subsidiary Action 
Programs of ENSAP and NELSAP. The projects prepared will result in reduction of 
Page  4
NBI ISP E
NVIRONMENTAL AND 
S
OCIAL 
A
CTION 
P
LAN
 
4
4
vulnerability to floods and droughts, increased energy and food security and result in a 
measurable reduction of rural poverty through improved socio-economic conditions of the 
basin population. These will also contribute towards the attainment of the millennium 
development goals of the riparian countries. From an environmental perspective, the project 
will promote the integration of environmental and social issues throughout the project cycles of 
the investment sub programs. Indeed identification and preparation of energy projects in the 
NELSAP follows projects ranked through the Strategic, Social and Environmental Assessment 
(SSEA) of Power Options. 
 
16. The 
potential negative social and environmental impacts
 associated with
 
preparation of WRD investment projects will be sector specific and mitigated and/or minimized 
through the mainstreaming of mitigation measures in the project cycle by the beneficiary 
countries, assisted by the NBI Secretariat. Indeed 1) effective environmental and social 
management plans (ESMPs) will be put into place to mitigate the adverse impacts of each 
subproject and 2) appropriate support will be drawn, as needed, from national plans and 
institutions in relevant areas e.g. HIV/AIDS. No potential long-term and/or cumulative impacts 
are anticipated if the ESMPs are properly implemented.
 
17. 
As a rule, any project funded through development partner funding will be subject to 
internationally accepted environment screening, following Wold Bank guidelines and / or 
development partner requirements.  The NBI Strategic EIA guidelines will be developed in 
conformity with these internationally accepted guidelines.  Nationally funded projects (both 
trans-boundary and of national character) have to comply with national legislation on 
environment.  NBI through NTEAP has augmented capacities of National Environment 
agencies and communities to apply environmental legislation.  
 
18. 
Some of the key issues considered in a standard project EIA / Social and 
Environmental Screening, and for which mitigation measures where found necessary will be 
in-built in the project design include the following:
 
Environment
:
Wetlands, Biodiversity, Water quality, Air quality, Waste disposal (solid / oily / 
hazardous), Noise and congestion, Landscape intrusion, physical cultural heritage etc. 
 
Socio-economic issues and public participation: 
social analysis, Impact on livelihoods, 
land acquisition and resettlement, indigenous peoples, Consult public and private sector 
stakeholders, Consulting neighbouring community(ies), etc. 
 
19. 
The recently prepared Flood Preparedness and Early Warning Project in the Eastern 
Nile carried out upstream social analysis with flood affected communities in Ethiopia and 
Sudan to understand the needs and concerns of affected communities and ensure that project 
procedures and priorities were grounded in local concerns and tuned to local capacity.  The 
social analysis significantly influenced project design and changes in priority activities and 
budget allocations.  The social analysis was operationalized into the operations manual to 
ensure that project procedures such as selection criteria, composition of community 
committees, targeting of vulnerable groups etc. build on the realities on the ground.  The NBI 
will carry out this kind of upstream social analysis, which is crucial to designing activities that 
address this issue effectively and that are sustainable since they are built keeping in mind 
priorities and capacity on the ground. 
C
Summary of role of ISP 
 
20. 
While NBI ISP will not finance project preparation and/or implementation, it will 
contribute to the NBI’s project development capacity through institutional development and 
strengthening of NBI project offices (ENTRO and NELSAP-CU) and related capacities.  One of 
the ISP outputs is to capture critical SVP results to ensure sustainability within the NBI 
institutions.  The social and environment function of the future NBI institution will be clearly 
Page  5
NBI ISP E
NVIRONMENTAL AND 
S
OCIAL 
A
CTION 
P
LAN
 
5
5
defined and operationalised during ISP implementation. The ISP will directly finance capacity 
building activities to improve NBI’s project management skills, such as targeted training for 
both ENTRO and NELSAP-CU staff.  This training will include courses targeted at enhancing 
environmental and social awareness, social analysis and its operationalization, preparation 
and review of environmental impact assessments (EIAs) and Resettlement Action Plans 
(RAPs), approaching indigenous people, and basic coverage of the World Bank’s safeguard 
policies.  
21. 
Advisory Assistance.
 ISP will support the initiation and development of an Integrated 
Water Resources Management (IWRM) function at the NBI secretariat, by employing an 
IWRM Specialist under the guidance of the Head of Strategic Planning and Management 
proposed in the ISP.  A major role of this unit will be to provide advisory assistance for review 
and advice on the social and environmental aspects and impacts of the infrastructure 
development projects under consideration as set out in the associated EIAs and RAPs.  In this 
regard, assistance will aim to improve the level of social and environmental impact mitigation 
associated with such underlying projects.  Assistance will also be provided in the development 
of upstream strategic EAs (SSEAs), including broad consideration of options and alternatives.   
22. 
ISP will expand and continue financing environmental and social functions of ENTRO 
and NELSAP-CU (currently financed through SVP NTEAP and CBSI projects, respectively), 
when the two projects close.  Finally, NBI ISP will contribute towards harmonization of existing 
and development of new policies, in consultation with the national environmental authorities in 
the Nile riparian countries.  For example, through completion of the Strategic Environmental 
Framework (initiated by SVP NTEAP). 
 
D. Additional 
Information 
 
23. 
For information, please contact: 
Nile Basin Initiative 
 
Ms. Henriette Ndombe 
NBI Secretariat Executive Director 
Email: 
nbisec@nilebasin.org
Tel: 256-414-321424 
 
Mr. Ahmed Khalid Eldaw 
ENTRO Executive Director  
Email: 
akhalid@nilebasin.org
Tel: 251 (0) 116 46 11 30 
 
Mr. Antoine Sendama 
NELSAP-CU Regional Coordinator 
Email: 
asendama@nilebasin.org
Tel : 250 788 307 334 
World Bank 
 
Ms. Barbara Miller 
E-mail: 
Bmiller@worldbank.org
Tel: 202-473-2451 
 
Mr. John Bryant Collier 
E-mail: 
jcollier@worldbank.org
Tel: 202-473-8551 
Page  6
NBI ISP E
N
VIRONMENTAL AND 
S
O
CIAL 
A
C
TION 
P
L
AN
 
6
6
