Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7285-PE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Agricultural Research and Extension Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 6, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7285-PE 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
February 16, 2005 describing t
he
Borrower’s program to increase the productivity and 
the competitiveness of the agricultural sector in the Borrower’s territory (hereinafter 
called the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, of which the Project constitutes the second phase; 
(B)  
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through a series of loans over a period of approximately twelve 
years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program; and 
(C) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, as amended 
through May 1, 2004 with the modifications set below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) Section 6.03(c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the words 
“corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”; and  
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
 
of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank 
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.” 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) “
Banco de la Nación
”
means the Borrower’s public sector bank created 
and operating, 
inter alia
,
under Law No. 16000, dated January 27, 1966 and Legislative 
Decree No. 199, dated June 12, 1981; 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means an individual or a public or private entity with legal 
personality, including Producer Organizations (as hereinafter defined) or Extension 
Service Providers (as hereinafter defined), which has met the eligibility criteria specified 
in the Project Operational Manual, and, as a result, has been granted or is to be granted a 
Subproject Grant for activities under the Project;  
(c) 
“Competitive Agricultural Technology Fund” means a fund established 
and operating under the Borrower’s Ministerial Resolution No. 0201-2005-AG, dated 
February 24, 2005; 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 
Subprojects and consultant services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Environmental Impact Action Plan” means a plan dated February 24, 
2005 outlining environmental implementation procedures, mitigation measures and 
monitoring guidelines for the Project; said plan may be amended from time to time with 
the Bank’s prior approval and is published and available to the public on the website 
www.incagro.gob.pe
;
Page  4
-
3
-
(g) 
“Executive Council” (
Consejo Directivo
)
means the highest oversight 
body for the Project headed by the Minister of Agriculture and comprising specialized 
committees for, 
inter alia
,
science, finance and programs, as established and operating 
under the Borrower’s Ministerial Resolution No. 0201-2005-AG, dated February 24, 
2005; 
(h) 
“Extension Service Providers” means an individual, or a public or private 
entity with legal personality (including universities, governmental research institutes, 
consulting firms, agribusiness firms, and non-governmental organizations) that:  (a) 
assists Producer Organizations in adopting new crop and livestock production, post-
harvest handling, and marketing technologies; and (b) strengthens Producer 
Organizations’ capacity to represent and serve their interests and those of their members; 
(i) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(j) 
“INCAGRO-PMU” means the project management unit within MOA (as 
hereinafter defined), in charge of the day-to-day management and execution of the 
Project; 
 (k) 
“Independent Auditors” means the independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01(b)(i) of this Agreement and paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement 
selected for each auditing task under separate selection procedures in accordance with 
Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and contracted for a period of up to two 
years; 
 (l) 
“Indigenous Peoples’ Development Plan” means the plan dated February 
24, 2005 outlining implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring 
guidelines for indigenous peoples under the Project, incorporating technical innovation 
contributions from said Indigenous Peoples and taking into account the framework of 
SNIP (as hereinafter defined); said plan may be amended from time to time with the 
Bank’s prior approval and is published and available to the public on the website 
www.incagro.gob.pe
;
(m)  
“Macro-Regional Consultative Councils” means oversight bodies within 
each macro region in the Borrower’s territory, operating under the Borrower’s Ministerial 
Resolution No. 0201-2005-AG, dated February 24, 2005; 
(n) 
“MOA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture; 
(o)  
“Pest Management Plan” means the Borrower’s plan dated February 24, 
2005 outlining implementation procedures, mitigation measures and monitoring 
Page  5
-
4
-
guidelines in relation to activities under the Project involving the use of pest control 
products; said plan may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval 
and is published and available to the public on the website 
www.incagro.gob.pe
;
(p) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan dated 
February 22, 2005 covering the entire period of Project implementation, as the same shall 
be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 (q) 
“Producer Organizations” means any producer group in the agricultural 
sector for the benefit of which a Subproject under the Project is to be carried out, and 
which includes, 
inter alia
,
commodity associations, traditional 
campesino
 community 
organizations, irrigation user groups, cooperatives, indigenous peoples’ and women’s 
organizations;  
(r) 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual approved by the 
Borrower through Ministerial Resolution No. 0201-2005-AG , dated February 24, 2005, 
outlining policies and implementation procedures including institutional strengthening, 
social and gender mitigation plans as well as monitoring guidelines and guidelines for the 
selection of Subprojects in accordance with SNIP and other related documents for the 
Project.  Said manual may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval, 
and such term includes any schedules to the Project Operational Manual, including the 
Indigenous Peoples’ Development Plan, the Environmental Impact Action Plan and the 
Pest Management Plan; 
(s) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(t) “SNIP” 
means 
‘
Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública
’, the Borrower’s 
national system of public investment created and operating under Law No. 27293, dated 
June 28, 2000 and establishing principles, processes, methodologies and technical 
guidelines for every phase of public investment in the Borrower’s territory; 
 (u) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
of this Agreement;  
 (v)  
“Strategic Services Development Fund” means the competitive fund to 
strengthen strategic research capacity in the Borrower’s territory, created and operating 
under the Borrower’s Ministerial Resolution No. 0201-2005-AG, dated February 24, 
2005;  
Page  6
-
5
-
(w)  
“Subproject” means any of the adaptive research, extension services,  
technical training, qualification and technical assistance, and strategic research activities 
approved by INCAGRO-PMU in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in 
the Subproject Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) and in paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(x) 
“Subproject Agreement” means an agreement for the financing of a 
Subproject as referred to in paragraph 5(d) of Schedule 5 of this Agreement; 
(y) 
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by the 
Borrower through INCAGRO-PMU in accordance with the criteria and procedures set 
forth in the Subproject Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) to finance a 
Subproject; and 
(z) 
“Subproject Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in 
paragraphs 1(a), 5(a) and 5(c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, outlining technical, 
financial, accounting, budget, procurement, social, environmental, monitoring and 
evaluation policies as well as implementation procedures for Subprojects; said manual 
may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior approval. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty five 
million Dollars ($25,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. 
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services (including those financed through Subproject) required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the 
front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with 
Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. 
(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to Paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the 
Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10. 
The Borrower’s Minister at the time responsible for Finance or 
the Borrower’s Director General at the time responsible for public indebtedness, and any 
person or persons whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted 
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the INCAGRO-PMU with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, social, 
financial, public utility and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through 
the INCAGRO-PMU, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. 
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project, including those financed 
through Subproject, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed 
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further 
elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
The Borrower, through INCAGRO-PMU, shall update the Procurement 
Plan in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through the INCAGRO-PMU, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than twelve (12) months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
 afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. 
The Borrower, through INCAGRO-PMU, shall furnish or cause 
to be furnished to the Bank, no later than six months after the Effective Date, the contract 
appointing the Independent Auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, 
under terms of reference and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank 
and in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower, through INCAGRO-PMU, shall establish and 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through INCAGRO-PMU, shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Loan was made, audited, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by Independent Auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
Page  10
-
9
-
period agreed to by the Bank):  (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower, through INCAGRO-PMU, shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower, through 
INCAGRO-PMU, shall prepare, or cause to be prepared and furnish to the Bank a 
financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
Page  11
-
10
-
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will 
be carried out.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. 
The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower, through INCAGRO-PMU, has adopted 
the Subproject Operational Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 6.02. 
The date, October 4, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower’s Minister at the time responsible for Finance is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Page  12
-
11
-
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Jr. Junín 319 
 
Lima, Peru 
 
Facsimile:   (511) 
426-8500 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or  (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
By 
/s/ Pedro Pablo Kuczynski 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ 
Marcelo 
M. 
Giugale 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.  
General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be financed
(1) Works 
79,000 
75% 
 
(2) Goods 
 
462,000 
75% 
 
(3) Consultant 
Services 
1,720,000 
75% 
 
(4) Training 
1,340,000 
75% 
 
(5) Subprojects 
20,594,000 
 100
%
of amount disbursed
 
(6) Operating 
Costs 
530,000 
 10%
 
(7) 
Premium for Interest  
0 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and Collars 
 
Section  2.09  (c)  of 
this Agreement 
 
(8) 
Front-end fee 
125,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(9) Unallocated 
150,000 
 
___________ 
 TOTAL 
25,000,000 
 
========== 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
insurance, vehicle and equipment operation, bank charges on the Special Account, 
transport, travel, per diem, and supervision costs and local contractual staff salaries but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service at the national and at the 
local levels; and 
(b) 
the term “Training” means the reasonable cost of:  (i) training materials 
and rental of training facilities and equipment; (ii) tuition fees, travel and per-diem of 
trainers and trainees; and (iii) any other expenses related to training (including study tours 
and workshops) to be carried out under the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may 
be made in respect of Categories (1) through (4) of the table in paragraph A.1 of this 
Schedule, on account of payments made for expenditures during the twelve months 
immediately before that date but in any case after March 1, 2005. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) non-
Subproject goods costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; (b) non-Subproject 
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract; (c) non-Subproject services of individual consultants costing less than $25,000 
equivalent per contract; and (d) works, training expenses, operating costs and all 
Subprojects; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
Upon receipt of a notification from the Bank allowing the establishment of the 
Special Account and to facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower through 
Page  16
-
15
-
INCAGRO-PMU may open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in 
Banco de la Nación
,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
Page  17
-
16
-
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Page  19
-
18
-
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of:  (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports.
 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to alleviate poverty by contributing to the 
sustainable development of an integrated, pluralistic, private sector-led, decentralized, 
agrarian system of technological innovation in order to increase the productivity, 
profitability and competitiveness of the agricultural sector through the generation and 
adoption of environmentally sound technologies. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A: Strengthening the Market for Innovation Services
Develop a decentralized and efficient market for professional services in agricultural 
innovation by: 
1. 
Supporting a decentralized Competitive Agricultural Technology Fund to co-
finance, on a grant basis, the carrying out of Subprojects. 
2. 
Improving the managerial capacity of agricultural service suppliers and Producer 
Organizations to formulate and implement quality services through the promotion of fora, 
professional internships and training workshops. 
Part B:  Strengthening the National Agricultural Research and Development System
Improve the agricultural research and development system by managing the Strategic 
Services Development Fund by: 
1.  
Supporting national and international partnerships for research activities and 
capacity building in:  (a) genetic resources conservation and use; (b) biotechnology; (c) 
integrated pest management; (d) natural resource management; (e) post-harvest handling; 
and (f) conservation agriculture. 
2.  
Supporting regional training and information programs for Extension Service 
Providers. 
Page  22
-
21
-
3.  
Co-financing professional training fellowships for researchers in high priority 
areas of strategic agricultural research. 
Part C:  Monitoring and Evaluation, Information Sharing and Policy for Innovation
Strengthen institutional capacity of the public sector to formulate and implement 
agricultural innovation policy and coordinate investments in the agricultural sector in 
conjunction with the private sector by: 
1. 
Developing a monitoring and evaluation framework to generate performance 
measurement standards for the modernization of the agricultural innovation system 
services, as well as to monitor and evaluate Subprojects. 
2. 
Designing and implementing a public information system on agricultural 
technology and innovation, including Subprojects, available to all stakeholders 
participating in agricultural innovation and to the general public. 
3. 
(a) Carrying out studies (including consultations) to, 
inter alia
,
develop policies 
in the area of agricultural science technology; (b) creating a science, technology and 
innovation agenda; (c) identifying constraints on the development, adoption and 
dissemination of agricultural innovation; (d) supporting the technical and decentralized 
units of INCAGRO-PMU; and (e) establishing a technology innovation policy focal point 
in MOA. 
Part D: Project Implementation
1. 
Support INCAGRO-PMU in its day-to-day management of the Project, through 
the provision of technical advisory services, the acquisition of equipment and vehicles 
and the financing of operating costs. 
2. 
Support the Executive Council and the Macro-Regional Consultative Councils in 
their implementing roles in the decentralized innovation system. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Payment Date
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a %)
On each January 15 and July 15 
Beginning on July 15, 2013 through July 15, 
2018 
 
8.33% 
On January 15, 2019 
8.37% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
Page  24
-
23
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either:  (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
A. All 
goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.   
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.  
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement method or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower by domestic suppliers. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 but 
more than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of National Competitive Bidding. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent per contract or less and 
works estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent per contract or less, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. Non-consultant services (including training-
related expenses) may also be procured under this method. 
Page  26
-
25
-
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Non-consultant services (including training-related 
expenses), which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for Direct Contracting, may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of this procurement method.  
4. Community 
Participation
.
Small goods, works and services (other than 
consultant services) required for Subprojects and costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract shall be procured on the basis of community participation in accordance with 
provisions of paragraph 3.17 of the Procurement Guidelines and in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank as defined in the Subprojects Operational Manual, 
following to the extent possible, Shopping procedures. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Least Cost Selection
.
Services for assignments estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract which the Bank agrees meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Least Cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Commercial 
Practices
.
Services required for Subprojects estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured in accordance with commercial 
practices acceptable to the Bank as defined in the Subproject Operational Manual. 
Page  27
-
26
-
5. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
A. Prior 
Review
.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the 
Borrower, the following prior review procedures shall apply: 
1. 
Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants’ Services)
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to:  (i) each contract awarded with 
the use of International Competitive Bidding; (ii) each contract for goods and services 
(other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of $120,000 or more; 
(iii) the first two contracts awarded under National Competitive Bidding procedures; (iv) 
the first two contracts for goods and works awarded under shopping procedures; (v) the 
contracts for goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) awarded for 
Subprojects under Community Participation Procedures and estimated to cost $50,000 
equivalent or more; and (vi) each contract for works estimated to cost $500,000 
equivalent or more. 
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract to be 
procured on the basis of direct contracting:  (i) prior to the execution of the contract, the 
Borrower, through INCAGRO-PMU, shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract for its approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded 
only after the Bank’s approval shall have been given; and (iii) the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2(h) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Firms
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more. 
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm to be procured on the basis of single source 
selection:  (i) the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall have been 
Page  28
-
27
-
given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply to the contract. 
3. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Individuals
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more.   
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by an individual to be procured on the basis of single 
source selection:  (i) the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall have been 
given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply to the contract. 
Section V
.
Post Review
A. Post 
Review
1. 
With respect to each contract for goods, works or services (other than 
consultants’ services) not governed by Part A of this Section, the post review procedures 
set forth in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services not governed by Part A of 
this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Section VI
.
Special Provisions
A. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set forth in 
this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all procurement of 
goods, works and non-consultant services under Section II of this Schedule: 
1. 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding documents. 
2. 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever 
appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be quantified objectively, and the 
procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid. 
3. 
The Borrower, through INCAGRO-PMU, shall utilize standard bidding 
documents satisfactory to the Bank. 
Page  29
-
28
-
4. 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their bids or any documentation 
related to such bids with either Peruvian consulates, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or 
any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to participate in the bidding process. 
 
B. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set forth in 
this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
employment of consultants referred to in Section III of this Schedule: 
1. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process. 
2. 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the proposal documents. 
3. 
No minimum number of responsive proposals shall be required prior to awarding 
a
contract for consulting services. 
4. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with either Peruvian consulates, the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to participate in the 
selection process. 
 
Page  30
-
29
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. General
The Borrower, through INCAGRO-PMU shall: 
(a) 
carry out the Project or cause the Project to be carried out in accordance 
with:  (i) the Project Operational Manual, including, the Environmental Impact Action 
Plan, the
 Indigenous Peoples’ Development Plan and the Pest Management Plan and (ii) 
the Subproject Operational Manual, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall 
not amend or waive any provision of these documents without the Bank’s prior written 
approval. In case of any conflict between the terms of said documents and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail; 
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof;  
(c) 
 
maintain until the completion of the execution of the Project, 
INCAGRO-PMU with competent staff in adequate numbers including the following key 
staff members:  an executive project director, a legal adviser, a planning and budget 
specialist, an executive assistant, a procurement specialist, a financial analyst and an 
administrative unit head; 
 
(d)  
maintain until the completion of the execution of the Project, technical 
and decentralized sub-units within the INCAGRO-PMU including a monitoring and 
evaluation sub-unit;  
 
(e)  
 maintain, until the completion of the execution of the Project, the 
Executive Council and the Macro-Regional Consultative Councils. 
 
2. 
Semi-Annual Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower, through INCAGRO-PMU and within the framework of SNIP, 
shall: 
Page  31
-
30
-
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 31 and July 31 of each year, starting on the first such date 
after the Effective Date, a semi-annual progress report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date;  
(b) 
review with the Bank, by February 28 and August 31
 
of each year, 
starting on the month following the presentation of the first semi-annual progress report, 
or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter;  
 
(c) 
by July 31, 2007, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, carry 
out jointly with the Bank a mid-term review of the implementation of operations under 
the Project (Midterm Review).  The Midterm Review shall cover the progress achieved in 
the implementation of the Project; and 
 
(d) 
following such Midterm Review, act promptly and diligently to take any 
corrective action as shall be recommended by the Bank.  
3. 
Annual Procurement Audits 
The Borrower, through INCAGRO-PMU, shall: 
(a) 
have all the procurement records and documentation for each fiscal year 
of the Project audited, in accordance with appropriate procurement auditing principles, by 
Independent Auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such fiscal year, the procurement audit report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said procurement 
records and documentation and the procurement audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request. 
Page  32
-
31
-
4. Procurement 
Plan
The Borrower, through INCAGRO-PMU, shall: 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank, on or about January 31 and July 31 of each year, 
starting on July 31, 2005, the updated Procurement Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
detailing all procurement activities under the Project for the following twelve months; 
(b) 
review with the Bank, by February 28 and August 31
 
of each year, 
starting on August 31, 2005, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the plan referred 
to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the plan based on its recommendations and the Bank’s 
views on the matter. 
(c) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Procurement Plan and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
5. Subprojects
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
the Borrower, through INCAGRO-PMU, shall monitor the activities of the Subprojects in 
accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, the Project Operational Manual and the 
Subproject Operational Manual that include, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the administrative rules and procedures for the planning, 
preparing, proposing, selecting (on a competitive basis, and 
following a process of peer review), contracting, financing, 
implementing, supervising, monitoring and evaluating 
Subprojects; 
(ii) 
the eligibility rules for Beneficiaries;  
(iii) 
a model form of a Subproject Agreement; 
(iv) 
an indigenous peoples’ action plan setting forth the strategies, 
procedures, activities, and monitoring indicators addressing, 
in a culturally appropriate manner, indigenous peoples’ 
Page  33
-
32
-
concerns in the implementation of the Project, as well as 
gender-specific plans for planning, preparation and proposals 
of Subprojects;  
(v) 
the environmental criteria for screening and selecting 
Subprojects, and mandatory safeguards and mitigation actions 
for any such Subprojects, which could possibly have a 
negative environmental impact such as in particular, use of 
any pesticides, increase in deforestation, pollution of 
groundwater, negative impacts on endangered species, 
increase in pesticides in food, increase in soil erosion, impact 
on parks and protected areas, and encroachment on natural 
habitats; and 
(vi) 
the procedures related to the manufacturing, packaging, 
labeling, handling, storing, and disposal of any pesticides 
used in the carrying out of Subprojects. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through INCAGRO-PMU, shall, prior to the submission 
of the Loan withdrawal application for the respective activity to be financed through a 
Subproject Grant, furnish to the Bank a report confirming that the respective Subproject 
Agreement has been executed, indicating the name of the Beneficiary and detailing how 
the selection was conducted. 
(c) 
The Subproject Grants shall be requested by a Beneficiary up to an 
aggregate amount specified for each selection process in accordance with the Project 
Operational Manual and shall be used solely for the purposes of the activities of the 
Project. 
(d) 
The Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to an agreement, to be 
concluded between the  Borrower (through INCAGRO-PMU) and the Beneficiary under 
terms and conditions described in more details in the Subproject Operational Manual and 
which shall include the following: 
(i) 
a copy of the approved activity with its budget, its feasibility 
study, its disbursement and its performance indicators; 
(ii) 
provisions requiring the financing to be made on a partial grant 
basis; 
(iii) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to:  (A) carry out the activities 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, agricultural, social, natural and 
Page  34
-
33
-
environmental standards and in accordance with the provisions 
of the Subproject Operational Manual; (B) maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with simple and sound 
accounting practices defined in the Subproject Operational 
Manual, the operations, the resources and expenditures in respect 
of the Subproject Grant; (C) maintain adequate reporting in 
accordance with the standards specified in the Subproject 
Operational Manual; and (D) make a contribution in kind or/and 
in cash as defined in the Subproject Operation Manual; 
(iv) 
the requirement that: (A) the goods, works and services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Subproject Grants shall be 
procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 
4
to this Agreement; and (B) such goods works and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the activities 
financed by the Subproject Grant; 
(v) 
the right of the INCAGRO-PMU to inspect, by itself or jointly 
with the MOA and the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, the 
goods, works, sites, plants and construction included in the 
activities financed by the Subprojects, the operations thereof and 
any relevant records and documents; 
(vi) 
the right of the INCAGRO-PMU to obtain all information as the 
MOA or the Bank shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operations and financial conditions of the 
activities financed by the Subprojects; and 
(vii) 
(A) the right of the INCAGRO-PMU to suspend and terminate 
the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Subproject; 
and (B) the obligation of the Beneficiary to refund any used 
portion of the Subproject to the INCAGRO-PMU; upon failure 
by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under its 
Subproject Agreement. 
Page  35
-
34
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said 
indicators being subject to modifications by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank: 
 
Target Dates 
Performance Indicators 
 
Mid Term 
End of Project 
1.  Number of producers participating in 
extension and adaptive research 
Subprojects with at least 25% of co-
financing. 
24,000 46,000 
2.  Number of macro-regional programs of 
extension and adaptive research established 
nationwide. 
8
8
3.  Number of extension and adaptive 
research Subprojects co-financed. 
140 263 
4.  Number of Subprojects co-financed with 
female and indigenous organizations. 
150 330 
5.  Number of established strategic research 
programs on agricultural innovation. 
4
6
6.  Number of co-financed Subprojects in 
strategic research. 
28 48 
7.  A system of Monitoring and Evaluation 
(M&E) of science, technology and 
innovation is implemented nationwide. 
1
1
