Page  1
 
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB810 
Project Name 
Agricultural Research and Extension APL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Agricultural extension and research (100%) 
Project ID 
P082588 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PERU 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Government of Peru 
Peru 
 
 
Ministry of Agriculture 
Peru 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD  
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD 
 
Date PID Prepared 
April 1, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 15, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 14, 2004 
 
 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
T
his operation is the second phase of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), which was based on an 
agriculture sector strategy outlined in a Policy Letter signed October 25, 1999 by the Government of Peru 
(GOP) that emphasized the central role of innovation in meeting its sectoral objectives.  The Policy Letter 
recognized the complementary roles of the public and private sectors in achieving the stated objectives of 
the strategy.  Public institutions would play an important role in defining and implementing strategic and 
regulatory elements of the innovation system, among others.  The focus of this project on private sector 
led innovation as a means to enhance competitiveness, and reduce rural poverty follows logically from the 
stated government strategy.  
The Government remains committed to the strategy outlined in the Policy Letter.  The successful 
implementation of the first phase of the Program, begun in January 2001, was due to strong support from 
the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance and sufficient counterpart funds from the GOP.  
During the preparation mission of March 2004, the Ministry of Agriculture agreed on the stated objectives 
and is in the process of allocating government budget for FY05. 
This project supports the three central objectives of the CAS namely:  (i) competitiveness and 
employment generation, (ii) equality and social justice, and  (iii) creation of an efficient state that is 
transparent and decentralized, by improving competitiveness of the agricultural sector and the creation of 
a decentralized agricultural innovation system.  Equity issues will be dealt with in various ways including 
the establishment of a special fund for indigenous peoples and women.   
The first phase of the APL which was focused on three regions of the country, and later expanded to 
five, has shown that a demand driven, decentralized and competitive system for the allocation of 
resources to research and extension is feasible in Peru, and has given valuable pointers to guide future 
investments.  This corroborates evidence from similar projects financed by the Bank in other LAC 
countries (i.e. Ecuador and Colombia).  The project through its two competitive funds (107 subprojects) 
Page  2
 
2
has leveraged $1.04 from both public and private partners for every dollar invested by the project. Sixty-
seven private groups or institutions are participating in this project as demanders or suppliers of services.  
A special funding window “Huchuy Ayni” has been established to facilitate the participation of 
indigenous people.  In addressing issues such as sustainability, commitment by national government and 
poor implementation raised by OED (2002)
1
 this project is trying to ensure sustainability through 
leveraging resources, commitment has been evident from budget support in the first phase, and a private 
business group has recognized successful implementation when the project won its prize for creativity in 
2003. 
The Government has included this project in the CAS and requested the PHRD grant for project 
preparation.  The ongoing project (INCAGRO) team is in charge of preparation.  The Government and 
Bank’s identification mission of September 2003 reached an agreement on the project concept and the 
outline of the components to be financed in the second phase.  The Project team has initiated the 
preparation of the Project and has developed a firm schedule for completing the activities and studies, 
leading to appraisal of the second phase Project.
  
 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
Program Development Objective: 
Increase the productivity and competitiveness of the agricultural 
sector through the adoption of environmentally sound technologies generated and disseminated by a 
private sector-led and decentralized innovation system.   
Project Development Objective (Phase II 2005-2008): 
Expand and strengthen the demand-driven rural 
agricultural innovation system that is pluralistic, decentralized, and led by the private sector. 
 
 
3. Preliminary description 
In the design of the program, consideration was given to supporting a centralized, public system, as in the 
past, or providing all support through the private sector.  In line with stakeholder views in Peru, and 
consistent with evolving international experiences, it was decided to support the development of a 
decentralized, and demand-driven system, that would be co-financed by users and private partners.  The 
first phase of the project which was concentrated in three regions, and expanded to five, has shown that 
development of an innovation system with these characteristics is feasible in Peru and that there is 
sufficient supply and demand for the types of services being financed by the project.  The proposed 
second phase project would continue to pursue the objective of the program, but expand its scope to all 
regions in Peru, and give greater attention to targeting disadvantaged groups, including indigenous people 
and women.   
The selection of the APL over a specific investment loan (SIL) was made at the initiation of the 
program for several reasons.  First, institutional development of innovation systems, and agricultural 
R&D itself, are long-term processes that require stable support over many years.  Institutions require time 
to develop strategies, capacities, and alliances and financing must adapt to institutional needs as they 
evolve.  Second, decentralized provision of demand-driven and co-financed services represents a 
fundamental change in Peruvian agricultural technology programs and requires a period of learning and 
adjustment of program strategies as they are developed.  The experience from the first phase has shown 
that implementation strategies and institutional needs do change over time and financing has to be 
sufficiently flexible to respond adequately to these changes. 
The APL phase 2 would finance the following components: 
                                                
 
1
 OED Peru Country Assistance Evaluation 2002 
Page  3
 
3
Component 1. Strengthening the market for innovation services. 
 The aim of this component is to 
advance the development of a decentralized market for professional services for agricultural innovation.  
This would result in the strengthening of producer organizations as demanders of services, as well as 
improved entrepreneurial capacity of private service providers.  This would result in a more efficient 
market for services such as advisory and business services, technical information and training.  Special 
emphasis would be given to the development of instruments that would ensure the adequate participation 
of organized indigenous and women groups and those in disadvantaged regions.  To realize this objective 
the component would finance a Competitive Fund that would co-finance subprojects in adaptive research 
and extension based on a business plan that reflects producer demands.  This component would also co-
finance internships, training workshops, and participatory 
fora
 to support capacity development of service 
providers and producer organizations. 
Component 2
. 
Strengthening the national agricultural research and development system. 
 The aim 
of this component is to strengthen agricultural research and development in strategic areas of national 
importance.  The component would support centers of excellence in emerging areas of science and 
technology that are critical to increasing competitiveness of the agricultural sector.  This component 
would finance:  a) a Competitive Fund for strategic national and international alliances in capacity 
building and research initially in three priority areas: conservation and use of genetic resources, 
biotechnology, and integrated protection of plants and animals, and which would later include natural 
resource management (soils and land management, irrigation and water management, agro-forestry), post-
harvest handling and processing, and sustainable agriculture, and b) regional competitive projects to 
strengthen training and information programs for extension service providers.  
Component 3. Policy formulation for innovation.  
The aim of this component is to develop institutional 
capacity to formulate and implement agricultural innovation policy and regulate quality of the innovation 
system.  The activities to be financed would be the following:  a) definition of policies to assist in the 
effective formulation and implementation in critical areas, such as public investment, intellectual property 
rights, genetic resources, and public-private partnerships, b) establishment and maintenance of a database 
of service providers and innovations that would be disseminated publicly, c) identification and scaling up 
of successful innovations to achieve wider impacts, and (d) studies on potential innovations for three new 
strategic areas and incentives for quality enhancement in the innovation system.  
Component 4. Program/Project Implementation.  
The aim of this component is to finance the present 
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which would continue to be the implementing agency for the second 
phase of this Program and contribute to reforming the Peruvian agricultural innovation system.  The main 
responsibilities of PIU would be to:  a) implement and monitor the project at the national level, b) be the 
principal contact with the World Bank in project supervision, and c) guide the evolution of PIU as 
outlined in the Policy Letter towards the establishment of a permanent entity that would have 
responsibility for the implementation of public programs in innovation for the agriculture and rural 
sectors.   
 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
Environmental and pest management might be triggered due to the introduction of new agricultural 
innovations.  Following the experience of the first project, environmental criteria will be included for 
subproject evaluation and selection.  The Indigenous People’s Action Plan developed during the first 
phase will be updated.  A safeguard specialist will be an integral part of the preparation team.  
 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Page  4
 
4
BORROWER 20 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
25 
 Total 
45 
 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Matthew A. McMahon 
Title: Lead Agriculturist 
Tel: (202) 473-8586 
Fax:  
Email: Mmcmahon@worldbank.org
 
