Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3564-KH
Development Credit Agreement
(Demobilization and Reintegration Project)
between
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 11, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3564 KH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 11, 2001, between KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated July 31, 2001 (Letter 
of Demobilization Program Development, hereinafter "LDPD"), from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to reduce poverty 
through the demobilization, reinsertion and reintegration of a large number of 
soldiers  (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of 
the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and which forms part of the 
Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from: (i) Sweden a grant (the Swedish 
Grant) in an amount equivalent to two million four hundred thousand dollars                  
($2,400,000) to assist in financing of the Project, including in particular Part B 
thereof, on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swedish Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the administrator of a trust 
fund to be established for such purposes; (ii) the Kingdom of the Netherlands a grant 
(the Dutch Grant) in an amount equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000) to 
assist in financing the Project including in particular Part B thereof, on terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the Dutch Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the administrator of a trust fund to be established for such 
purposes; (iii) Japan a grant (the Japanese Grant) in an amount equivalent to ten 
million dollars ($10,000,000) to assist in financing the Project including in 
particular Part B thereof, on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the 
Japanese Grant Agreement) between the Borrower and Japan; and (iv) the World Food 
Page  2
Program (WFP) a grant (the WFP Grant) in an amount equivalent to two million dollars 
($2,000,000) to assist in financing the Project including in particular Part B 
thereof, on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the WFP Grant Agreement) 
to be entered into between the Borrower and WFP.
(D)
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries." ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) 
right, title, or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat 
adversely affected; and "Affected Person" means any of the Affected Persons;
(b)
"AWPB" means the annual work program and budget to be prepared by the 
Borrower in accordance with paragraph I.3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
 "CDAF" means Council for the Demobilization of the Armed Forces, or any 
successor thereof, established by the Borrower pursuant to Sub-Decree No. 41 dated 12 
May 1999, whose role and functions are described in paragraph I.1 of Schedule 4 of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"Cofinancing Grant" means any of the cofinancing grants referred to in 
Recital C of the Preamble to this Agreement, namely the Japanese Grant, the Swedish 
Grant, the Dutch Grant and the WFP Grant;
(e)
"Eligible Categories" means  categories 1, 2, and 3 set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(f)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  3
(g)
"Environmental and Social Guidelines" means the environmental and social 
guidelines to be adopted by the Borrower and setting out measures to mitigate adverse 
environmental or social effects that may result from the implementation of the 
Project, and comprised of a Resettlement Policy Framework (as hereinafter defined) and 
a Policy Framework for Indigenous People (as hereinafter defined), as such guidelines 
may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Association;
(h)
"GS" or General Secretariat" means the executing body of CDAF, whose role 
and functions are described in paragraph I.1(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(i)
"Initial Deposit" means the initial amount to be deposited into the 
Project Account (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(j)
"MLMUC" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Land Management, Urbanization 
and Construction or any successor thereto;
(k)
"MND" means the Borrower’s Ministry of National Defense or any successor 
thereto;
(l)
"MoE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment or any successor 
thereto;
(m)
"MoI" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Interior or any successor thereto;
(n)
"MoH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health or any successor thereto;
(o)
"MSALVY" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Social Affairs, Labor, 
Vocational Training and Youth Rehabilitation or any successor thereto;
(p)
"MWVA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Women and Veteran’s Affairs or 
any successor thereto;
(q)
"National Bank of Cambodia" or "NBC" means the Borrower’s Central Bank, 
or any successor thereto;
(r)
"PIM" or " Project Implementation Manual" means the manual referred to in 
paragraph I.5(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and comprising the policies, 
procedures and guidelines which shall be followed by the Borrower in the 
implementation of the Project;
(s)
 "Policy Framework for Indigenous Peoples" means the guidelines, 
principles and procedures for mitigating any adverse impact on indigenous people that 
may arise from the implementation of the Project and included in the Environmental and 
Social Guidelines;
(t)
 "Project Account" means the account referred to in  Section 3.02(a) of 
this Agreement;
(u)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(v)
"Provincial Veterans Committee" or  "PVC" means a committee to be 
established by the Borrower in each of the provinces or municipalities where veterans 
will settle and whose role and functions are described in paragraph I.1(c) of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement; 
(w)
"PDWVAs" means the provincial departments of MWVA;
(x)
"Registration Data" means the socioeconomic data relating to each Veteran 
collected under the registration exercise conducted by the Borrower in preparation of 
the Project, as described in paragraph 19 (iii) of the LDPD;
(y)
"Resettlement Policy Framework" means the policy framework for 
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons included in the 
Environmental and Social Guidelines and setting forth the guidelines, principles and 
procedures for mitigating any adverse impact that may arise from resettlement under 
the Project;
(z)
 "Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B.1(a) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and "Second Generation Special Account" means the 
Page  4
account referred to in Part B.1(b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(aa)
 "Veterans" means  the soldiers to be discharged by the Borrower from its 
armed forces in accordance with the criteria described in paragraph 19 (xiii), (xiv), 
and (xv) of the LDPD.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,  2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 2012 and ending August 15, 
2041. Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2021 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
Page  5
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental, social, and military demobilization 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall, for purposes of financing its contribution to expenditures 
under the Project:
(a)
open an account in the National Bank of Cambodia (the Project Account), 
and thereafter maintain said Project Account under terms and conditions acceptable to 
the Association until the completion of the Project;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to 
$3,600,000; 
(c)
 thereafter replenish the Project Account on a quarterly basis by 
depositing therein the amounts specified in the PMR or as needed, according to the 
discharge timetable specified in the AWPB; and
(d)
and ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; and
Page  6
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account and the SGSA, for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter,  a Project Management Report for such period, 
which:
(a) 
(i)  sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (ii) show separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
Page  7
period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
subject to subparagraph (c) of this paragraph, the right of the Borrower 
to withdraw the proceeds of any Cofinancing Grant made to the Borrower shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefore; and
(c)
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any 
of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has appointed the procurement and financial management firm 
referred to in Section I.4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and established an adequate financial management system, 
satisfactory to the Association, to ensure proper accounting, monitoring and reporting 
of Project operations, resources and expenditures;
(b)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and made therein the Initial 
Deposit;
(c)
the Borrower has adopted the PIM, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association;
(d)
the Borrower has adopted the AWPB for the first year of the Project in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(e)
the Borrower has adopted Sub-decrees establishing a PVC in each of the 
provinces or municipalities where Veterans will settle;
(f)
the Borrower has made available to the Association the Registration Data 
relating to the 15,000 soldiers to be demobilized during the first year of the 
Project; and 
(g)
the Japanese Grant Agreement, the Swedish Grant Agreement, the Dutch 
Grant Agreement and the WFP Grant Agreement have been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to their effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Environmental and 
Social Guidelines have been duly authorized and approved by the Chairman of CDAF, in 
consultation with the Borrower’s Minister responsible for Environment, and are legally 
binding upon the Borrower in accordance with their terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
Page  8
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister in charge of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
92nd Street, Sangkat Wat Phnom
Phnom Penh,  
Kingdom of Cambodia
Telex:
(583) 17770101 CMPP
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
By /s/ Roland Eng
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ian C. Porter
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  9
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   12,140,000 100% of foreign
 expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of local 
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(2)
Consultants’
services and 
Training
          1,920,000
100%
(3)
Incremental Operating 
Costs
480,000
100%
(4)
Unallocated
160,000
TOTAL
14,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the reasonable cost of 
incremental expenses incurred by the Borrower on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including office supplies, telecommunications expenses, 
vehicle operation and maintenance, audits under Article IV of this Agreement, travel 
costs including per diem, bank charges (which expenditures would not have been 
incurred absent the Project), but excluding salaries or salary supplements of 
officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of        
SDR 1,440,000, may be made in respect of Categories 1, 2, and 3 on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after April 1, 2001.
B.
Special Account
1.
(a)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
US dollars a separate special deposit account at the National Bank of Cambodia on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule.
(b)
The Borrower  may, for the purposes of Parts A, C and D of the Project, 
open and maintain in US dollars a separate SGSA at the National Bank of Cambodia or in 
a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, 
in the case of a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the SGSA shall be made in accordance 
Page  10
with the provisions of this Schedule and additional procedures that shall have been 
approved by the Association.
(c)
Payments out of  Special Account shall be made either (i)  for Eligible 
Expenditures or (ii) into the SGSA, for payments of Eligible Expenditures, all in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  For each payment made by the 
Borrower out of the Special Account or SGSA, the Borrower shall, at such time as the 
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, after the Association has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the 
amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the Association has determined, based 
on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account and the SGSA, shall not exceed $3,680,000.  Each  such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account and the 
SGSA or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account or SGSA was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional 
evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account or the 
SGSA where relevant (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account or SGSA will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Page  11
Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account or SGSA.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in its efforts to 
implement its Program, which includes: (i) demobilizing a large number of soldiers and 
promoting their successful reintegration into civilian life; and (ii) building and/or 
rebuilding human, social and economic capital for the Veterans and their families.
Part A:
Preparation of Personnel Database and Management Information Systems
Completion of the establishment of the military personnel data base and 
computerized payroll system set up at GS in 1999, including the finalization of the 
identification and verification of the identity of enlisted soldiers, carrying out of 
data collection and data processing, development and maintenance of a personnel 
database, design of transparent information flow system for central and local levels, 
all through the provision of technical advisory services and training to relevant 
staff of the implementing agencies of the Borrower, as well as the acquisition of 
computer and other electronic equipment needed to carry out the activities under this 
Part A of the Project.
Part B:
Demobilization
Carrying out of a formal and controlled discharge or transfer of soldiers from 
the army to civilian life, including the establishment of discharge centers where 
soldiers are assembled upon their discharge and implementation of specific discharge 
operations, as follows: provision of pre-discharge orientation and discharge 
certificates to soldiers, health screening, provision of a transitional safety net 
package to each Veteran and transportation to communities of settlement.  
Part C:
Reintegration
1.
Provision of selected expert services to, or for the benefit of, Veterans 
including counseling, sensitization of local communities, skills development, needs 
assessments and referrals to provincial health facilities.
2.
Provision of health care and of an economic assistance package to Veterans 
including housing, agricultural tools and other equipment.
Part D:
Project Administration and Management
Facilitating the implementation of Project activities by strengthening the 
Borrower’s agencies responsible for Project execution, through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training and the acquisition of vehicles, motorcycles, 
equipment and materials.                                     
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
Page  12
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for generators, sewing machines, bicycles, 
motorbikes, water pumps and other equipment shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for  domestic manufacturers
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Draught animals under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,320,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles and motorcycles under Part D of the Project may be procured from the 
Inter-Agency Procurement Office (IAPSO) of the United Nations in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first five contracts to be procured each year 
pursuant to Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  13
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Financial auditing services under Article IV of this Agreement estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
I.
Overall Project Coordination and Management
Page  14
1.
Project coordination
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain, at all times during the implementation of 
the Project, CDAF which shall be responsible for the demobilization and reintegration 
of soldiers and for providing policy coordination, guidance and supervision of all 
ministries and institutions involved in the implementation of its demobilization 
program. To this end, the Borrower shall provide CDAF with sufficient funds, staffing 
and other resources as shall be required to allow it to carry out its responsibilities 
under the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain, at all times during the implementation of 
the Project, GS which shall be responsible for implementing CDAF’s decisions, 
including with respect to the administration of the Project, and preparing the AWPBs. 
(c)
The Borrower shall implement the Project at the provincial level through 
the PVCs, which, under the direction and control of GS, shall be responsible for 
carrying out CDAF’s decisions at the provincial level, and shall, to that end, be 
assisted by the provincial services of the Borrower’s ministries.
2.
Specific Responsibilities of Borrower’s Agencies Involved in Project 
Implementation GS shall implement the Project in collaboration with, and with the 
assistance of, ministries and other agencies of the Borrower. In particular, GS shall: 
(a)
with the assistance of MWVA and other relevant agencies of the Borrower, 
collect all information and documentation regarding Veterans identified as vulnerable, 
prior to, and during each phase of, demobilization and provide these details to 
relevant ministries, institutions and non governmental organizations in support of the 
reintegration. During the reintegration phase, GS shall be assisted by PDWVAs, in 
their capacity as members of PVCs, in coordinating assistance to such Veterans;
(b)
with the assistance of MoI, be responsible for establishing the necessary 
relationships with the provincial authorities to facilitate the reintegration of 
Veterans and their families into their communities;
(c)
with the assistance of MLMUC and other concerned agencies of the 
Borrower, be responsible for facilitating land access and tenure for Veterans who have 
been ascertained to be landless or homeless or will settle into new areas following 
their discharge;
(d)
with the assistance of MoH, design health assistance packages to 
Veterans; and
(e)
with the assistance of MSALVY, carry out the "needs analysis" of the 
Veterans, with special emphasis on those identified as vulnerable, and in coordinate 
with all local and international institutions and the private sector to assure and 
verify an effective reintegration process in terms of service delivery.
3.
Project Management
The Borrower shall manage the Project on the basis of Annual Work Programs and 
Budgets (AWPBs), which shall be satisfactory to the Association. To that end, the 
Borrower shall ensure that AWPBs are prepared following the normal budget calendar of 
the Borrower:
(a)
a brief report on the results achieved with the previous year’s AWPB 
compared to the objectives with an explanation of the reasons for any identified 
differences;
(b)
a succinct presentation of the main problems encountered and the lessons 
learned;
(c)
a clear description of the activities that are going to be undertaken to 
achieve those objectives and the performance monitoring indicators for that year; 
(d)
a detailed estimate of the costs to be incurred in carrying out these 
activities; and
(e)
a financing plan showing how the costs are going to be financed.
4.
The Borrower shall appoint, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Page  15
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
and thereafter maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project a 
procurement and financial management firm which shall be responsible for managing, on 
behalf of the Borrower, procurement and financial management matters under the Project 
including the Special Account, the Second Generation Special Account and the Project 
Account. It is understood that, notwithstanding the above provision, the procurement 
functions of such firm shall cease upon completion of all procurement activities under 
the Project, as shall be reflected in the contract between the Borrower and such firm.
5.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
adopt, in a form and substance acceptable to the Association a PIM 
setting forth, inter alia: (i) details of all procurement, financial management and 
other administrative and organizational arrangements for implementation of activities 
under the Project, which procedures shall be consistent with those set forth in 
Article IV, Schedule 1 and Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (ii) performance indicators, 
monitoring and evaluation procedures for the Project; and (iii) guidelines and 
procedures to be used for carrying out a satisfactory needs assessment of the soldiers 
to be demobilized and their families and for designing and selecting a suitable 
reintegration package for each Veteran; and
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with the timetable and procedures set 
out in the PIM, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend 
or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
II.
Project Monitoring
The Borrower shall:
1.
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, 
and referred to in the PIM, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
2.
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association, on or about twelve months following the Effective Date, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph 1 of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
3.
review with the Association, by November 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 2 of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter; and
4.
carry out every six months, beginning six months after the Effective Date, an 
external review of Project implementation and promptly thereafter submit to the 
Association the results of such review.
III.
Other Covenants
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the measures 
described in the Environmental and Social Guidelines and, without any limitation 
thereto, shall take timely action to ensure that any adverse environmental or social 
impact of the Project is effectively mitigated in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association. In particular, the Borrower shall take all such action as shall be 
necessary to ensure that land and other assets that may be required for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof shall be either voluntarily provided for by the owners 
of such land and other assets in the benefiting community, under arrangements 
satisfactory to the Association, or be acquired under open and voluntary market 
transactions.
2.
The Borrower shall make available to the Association, no later than January 15, 
2002, or such later date the Association shall agree, the Registration Data relating 
to the soldiers to be demobilized during the second year of the Project.
Page  16
