Page  1
August 15, 2000
Your Excellency
Mr. Keat Chhon
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Phnom Penh
Kingdom of Cambodia
Re: Netherlands Grant for Demobilization
Grant Number TF023949
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Netherlands, 
to make a grant in an amount not exceeding seven hundred thirty seven thousand, eight 
hundred Netherlands Guilders (NLG737,800) (the Grant) to the Kingdom of Cambodia (the 
Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Julian Schweitzer
Acting Country Director, Cambodia
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
By /s/ Keat Chhon
Sr. Minister, Minister of Economy and Finance
Date:
August 17, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the design and 
implementation of a demobilization program.  The activities (the Activities) for which 
the Grant is given are as follows:
(a) carrying out an assessment of the needs of the Recipient’s soldiers;
(b) carrying out a study to establish the training requirements of the 
Recipient’s soldiers;
(c) carrying out socio-economic studies to ascertain the specific needs of 
identified vulnerable groups, such as child soldiers and widows of soldiers; 
(d) carrying out of studies of the Recipient’s labor market and land ownership; 
and
Page  2
(e) implementing and monitoring pilot development activities as part of the 
preparation of the demobilization program.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency through the General Secretariat of the Council on Demobilization; (b) 
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that 
purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange 
views with IDA's representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and 
(e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of 
Kingdom of Cambodia for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the 
foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA 
promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services, 
goods and works, required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I 
to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the    % of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Item
   In NLG
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
   306,185
100%
(2)
Goods
    68,303
100% of foreign
expenditures
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
85% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Civil Works
   235,527
90%
(4)
Training/Workshops
   127,785
100%
Expenses
TOTAL
   737,800
For purposes of this paragraph, the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in 
the currency of any country other than that of the Kingdom of Cambodia for goods, 
works or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Kingdom of Cambodia and the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are 
Page  3
not foreign expenditures, provided, however, that if the currency of the Kingdom of 
Cambodia is also that of another country from the territory of which goods, works or 
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods, works or services 
shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding NLG73,000 may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 2000; (ii) 
on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; 
(iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced in or services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after June 30, 2001, 
or such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing 
Date).  However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date, with the approval of 
the Minister for Development Cooperation of the Netherlands and IDA, for expenditures 
incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is 
received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount 
of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled;
(c)
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to 
such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, in IDA’s 
opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Minister of Economy and Finance, or such other person as he or she 
shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of 
the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of 
the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount 
of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to 
satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA 
shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on 
the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods; (b) civil 
works; and (c) training/workshop expenses, all under such terms and conditions as IDA 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment 
II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
Page  4
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; 
(ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Kingdom of 
Cambodia, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any 
development credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended. 
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Attachment.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than US$15,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$75,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed- price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant 
drawings where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
Page  5
to complete the contract successfully.
2.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.  
Part C:
Review by IDA of the Procurement of Works and Goods
The review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to such contracts, provided that the word "bids", in such paragraph 4, 
shall be read as "quotations".
Section II.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, 
with IDA's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to IDA 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
Attachment II
Page  6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Activities and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$ 
100,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at 
such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each 
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the 
eligible items, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period 
of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the 
Page  7
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such 
outstanding amount.
