Page  1
Conformed Copy
ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT
In pursuance of the Cofinancing, Technical Assistance and Consultant Trust Fund 
Framework Agreement between the Kingdom of Sweden ("Sweden") and the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development ("IBRD") and the International Development 
Association ("Association"), (IBRD and the Association being hereinafter referred to 
collectively as the "Bank") dated as of March 23, 1998 (the "Agreement"), I am pleased 
to inform you of the intention of Sweden to make available a contribution (the 
"Contribution") of Swedish kronor three million, two hundred thousand (SEK3,200,000) 
as a grant, to be administered by the Bank for the Cambodia Veterans Assistance 
Program/PILOT PROGRAM (Trust Fund No.023586).  The terms of the Agreement shall apply 
to the Contribution. The Bank shall administer the Contribution in accordance with the 
provisions of the Agreement, except as otherwise provided herein.
The Contribution is for a recipient executed grant and shall be used exclusively 
for the design and implementation of a demobilization program in the Kingdom of 
Cambodia.  The activities (the Activities) to be financed are described in the 
Attachment to this Administration Agreement.  Sweden shall deposit the Contribution as 
a grant with the Bank, upon request from the Bank, in IBRD's Cash Account "T" (Account 
No. IBRDSEK2) maintained with Sveriges Riksbank in accordance with the following 
schedule:
upon confirmation by the Bank of 
SEK 1,600,000
this Administration Agreement
upon request and presentation of 
SEK 1,600,000
a financial and progress report by the Bank
It is expected that the Contribution funds will be fully utilized in accordance 
with the provisions of this Administration Agreement by June 30, 2001.  The Bank shall 
only disburse the funds for the purposes of this Administration Agreement after such 
date upon the approval of Sweden.
If, at any time, either party determines that the purposes of this 
Administration Agreement can no longer be effectively or appropriately carried out or 
if the Agreement is terminated, this Administration Agreement may be terminated at the 
initiative of either party by giving the other party not less than three (3) months' 
prior written notice to such effect.
Upon termination of this Administration Agreement, and unless the parties hereto 
otherwise agree, any Grant Agreement entered into by the Bank, as administrator on 
behalf of Sweden, shall also terminate at such time, and any funds or other property 
of Sweden held hereunder by the Bank shall be credited to the trust fund account 
specified in Section 4.1(k) of the Agreement, and the Bank's administration shall then 
be considered terminated.
The offices responsible for coordination of all matters related to this 
Administration Agreement are:
For Sweden 
For the Bank
Mr. Daniel Asplund 
Mr. Bonaventure Mbida-Essama
Counsellor, Swedish Embassy
Chief
Phnom Penh
World Bank Office
Cambodia
Phnom Penh
I would like to propose that this letter shall, upon your confirmation in the 
manner indicated below, constitute an agreement between Sweden and the Bank.
Sincerely yours,
By /s/ Daniel Asplund
Counsellor
Embassy of Sweden
Phnom Penh
Page  2
CONFIRMED AND AGREED
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT/INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ 
Acting Country Director, Cambodia
Date:
ATTACHMENT
The purpose of the Contribution is to assist the Kingdom of Cambodia (the 
Recipient) in carrying out a demobilization program.
The Activities for which the Contribution is given are as follows:
(a) carrying out an assessment of the needs of the Recipient’s soldiers;
(b) carrying out a study to establish the training requirements of the 
Recipient’s soldiers;
(c) carrying out socio-economic studies to ascertain the specific needs of 
identified vulnerable groups, such as child soldiers and widows of soldiers;
(d) carrying out of studies of the Recipient’s labor market and land ownership; 
and
(e) implementing and monitoring pilot development activities as part of the 
preparation of the demobilization program.
