Page  1
Conformed Copy
ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT
In pursuance of the Cofinancing, Technical Assistance and Consultant Trust Fund 
Framework Agreement between Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Canada, as represented 
by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, acting through the Canadian International 
Development Agency ("CIDA"), and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT ("IBRD") and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ("IDA") 
(collectively, the "Bank") dated June 21, 1995 (the Agreement), I am pleased to inform 
you of the intention of CIDA to make available a contribution (Contribution) of five 
hundred thousand Canadian dollars (CDN $500,000), to be administered by the Bank for 
the Cambodia Demobilization Program (Trust Fund No. TF023948).  The terms of the 
Agreement shall apply to the Contribution.  The Bank shall administer the Contribution 
in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement, except as otherwise provided 
herein.
The Contribution is for a recipient executed grant and shall be used exclusively 
for the design and implementation of a demobilization program in the Kingdom of 
Cambodia.  The activities (the Activities) to be financed are described in the 
Attachment to this Administration Agreement.
CIDA shall deposit the Contribution with the Bank, upon request from the Bank, 
in IDA's  Cash Account "T" maintained with the Bank of Canada. 
It is expected that the funds will be fully utilized in accordance with the 
provisions of this Administration Agreement by June 30, 2001.  The Bank shall only 
disburse the Bank funds for the purposes of this Administration Agreement after such 
date upon the approval of CIDA.
If, at any time, either party determines that the purposes of this 
Administration Agreement can no longer be effectively or appropriately carried out or 
if the Agreement is terminated, this Administration Agreement may be terminated at the 
initiative of either party by giving the other party a three (3) months' written 
notice to this effect.  Upon the termination of this Administration Agreement, and 
unless the parties agree on another Arrangement, any Canada Grant Agreement entered 
into by the Bank, as administrator on behalf of CIDA, shall also terminate at such 
time, and any funds or other property of CIDA held hereunder by the Bank shall be 
returned to CIDA, and the Bank's administration shall be considered terminated.
The officers responsible for coordination of all matters related to this 
Administration Agreement are:
For CIDA:
For the BANK:
Mr. Hunter McGill
Mr. Bonaventure 
Mbida-Essama
Director General
Chief
Multilateral Humanitarian Assistance Division
World Bank Office
CIDA
Phnom Penh
I would like to propose that this letter shall, upon your confirmation in the 
manner indicated below, constitute an agreement between CIDA and the BANK.
Sincerely yours,
By /s/ Hunter McGill
CONFIRMED AND AGREED:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
   DEVELOPMENT AND INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Page  2
Country Director, Cambodia
Date:
September 14, 2000
ATTACHMENT
The purpose of the Contribution is to assist the Kingdom of Cambodia (the 
Recipient) in carrying out a demobilization program.
The Activities for which the Contribution is given are as follows:
(a) carrying out an assessment of the needs of the Recipient’s soldiers;
(b) carrying out a study to establish the training requirements of the 
Recipient’s soldiers;
(c) carrying out socio-economic studies to ascertain the specific needs of 
identified vulnerable groups, such as child soldiers and widows of soldiers;
(d) carrying out of studies of the Recipient’s labor market and land ownership; 
and
(e) implementing and monitoring pilot development activities as part of the 
preparation of the demobilization program.
