Page  1
ARRANGEMENT
With reference to the General Arrangement among the Netherlands Minister for 
Development Cooperation (the "Minister") and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development ("IBRD") and the International Development Association ("IDA") 
(collectively referred to as the "Bank") dated May 24,1995;
The Minister has decided to support the Kingdom of Cambodia (the Recipient) and 
make available a grant (the "Grant") of seven hundred thirty seven thousand, eight 
hundred Netherlands Guilders (NLG737,800), equivalent to three hundred ten thousand 
United States Dollars (US$310,000), to be administered by the Bank for the Cambodia 
Demobilization Program.  The activities (Activities) to be financed are described in 
the Attachment to this Arrangement.  
The proceeds of the Grant will be used for the following expense categories:
Expenditure Categories
NLG
Consultant Services
306,185
Goods
 68,303
Civil Works
235,527
(Training and
127,785
Workshop Expenses)
737,800
Unless otherwise provided for herein, the terms of the General Arrangement shall 
apply to the Grant made available under this Arrangement.
The Minister shall deposit the Grant with the Bank, upon request from the Bank, 
in the Bank's Cash Account "T" (the "T-account") maintained with De Nederlandsche 
Bank, N.V. Dollar Trust Account maintained with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  
It is expected that the Grant funds will be fully utilized in accordance with 
the provisions of this Arrangement by June 30, 2001 by the Recipient.  The Bank shall 
only disburse the Grant funds for the purposes of this Arrangement after such date 
upon the approval of the Minister.  
Pursuant to Article VII of the General Arrangement, the Bank shall provide the 
Minister with the following reports:
(a)
a brief annual progress report, as well as a financial statement 
including a breakdown of expenses by budget category for the preceding calendar year;
(b)
a final report upon completion of the Project, containing a comprehensive 
overview of the total Project implementation;
(c)
a quarterly financial statement with respect to the Project; each 
financial statement shall be expressed in the currency of commitment;
(d)
a consolidated semi-annual financial statement on funds provided by the 
Minister;
(e)
a quarterly financial statement with respect to the Balance Account, 
specifying investment income and unspent balances deposited, as well as fees and other 
costs deducted.
The offices responsible for coordination of all matters related to this 
Arrangement are:
For the Minister:                  
For the Bank:
Mr. Cees Kieft
Mr. Bonaventure 
Mbida-Essama
First Secretary
Chief
Royal Netherlands Embassy
World Bank Office
Bangkok, Thailand 10330
Phnom Penh
    This Arrangement is prepared in duplicate.
Page  2
For the Minister for Development
For the International Bank for
Cooperation of the Netherlands          
Reconstruction and 
Development
  and the International 
  Development Association
   By /s/ Rob Bosscher
By /s/ Julian Schweitzer
   Chargé d' Affaires a.i.
            Authorized Representative
ATTACHMENT
The purpose of the Contribution is to assist the Recipient in carrying out a 
demobilization program.
The Activities for which the Contribution is given are as follows:
(a) carrying out an assessment of the needs of the Recipient’s soldiers;
(b) carrying out a study to establish the training requirements of the 
Recipient’s soldiers;
(c) carrying out socio-economic studies to ascertain the specific needs of 
identified vulnerable groups, such as child soldiers and widows of soldiers;
(d) carrying out of studies of the Recipient’s labor market and land ownership; 
and
(e) implementing and monitoring pilot development activities as part of the 
preparation of the demobilization program.
