                 Document of
              The World Bank




                                                 Report No: 36269

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-23586 TF-23949 TF-23948 IDA-35640 TF-50267)

                    ON A

            LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                   TO THE

                 CAMBODIA

                    FOR A

DEMOBILIZATION AND REINTEGRATION PROJECT




                 May 22, 2006

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective )

                  Currency Unit =

                        FISCAL YEAR


            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



                 Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum/Jeffrey Gutman
              Country Director    Ian C. Porter
               Sector Manager     Cyprian Fisiy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Gillian Brown

                                         CAMBODIA
                           Demobilization and Reintegration Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P071445                                                  Project Name: Demobilization and Reintegration Project
Team Leader: Gillian M. Brown                                        TL Unit: EASSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Demobilization and Reintegration Project                 L/C/TF Number: TF-23586; TF-23949;
                                                                                                     TF-23948; IDA-35640;
                                                                                                     TF-50267
   Country/Department: CAMBODIA                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (82%); Central government administration (18%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P); Other social protection and risk
                            management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/19/2000                                     Effective: 04/30/2002                07/01/2002
     Appraisal: 04/25/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 08/23/2001                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA/Council for Demobilization of
                                           Armed Forces
                      Other Partners:      Governments of Japan, Sweden, Netherlands; World Food Program

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey Gutman (Acting)                        Jemal ud-din Kassum
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager:                 Cyprian F. Fisiy
Team Leader at ICR:             Gillian M. Brown                               Bonaventure Mbida-Essama
ICR Primary Author:             Dararith KIM-YEAT; Gillian
                                Brown


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Demobilization and Reintegration Project objectives were (i) to assist the Government in its effort to
demobilize 30,000 soldiers and to promote their successful adaptation to civilian life; and (ii) to contribute
to a reallocation of budgetary resources to the social sectors in order to build human, social and economic
assets.

The Project was designed as a single program funded from multiple sources including a grant from Swedish
Government for the amount of US $2,400,000, a grant from the Kingdom of the Netherlands for US $
2,000,000, a grant from the Government of Japan for US $ 10,000,000, the World Food Program grant for
US $ 2,000,000.      The International Development Association (IDA) would extend a credit of SDR
14,700,000 and the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) would contribute for an amount in riel
equivalent to US$ 7,200,000. The total planned budget of the Project was US$ 42,000,000. The actual
expenditure up to 31 January 2005 can be found in the "Cost and Financing" section below.

The Projects' objectives were in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 1999-2004,
which aimed to support Cambodia in building up the foundation for a strategy of sustainable development
and poverty reduction in the medium and long-term. The CAS focused on four objectives: (i) supporting
good governance in the sector of the legal and judicial reform and public sector reform including military
demobilization; (ii) building physical infrastructure; (iii) rebuilding human capital through improved access
to health care service and education; and (iv) facilitating private sector development.

The Projects'objectives were also consistent with the Royal Government of Cambodia's Platform for
1998-2003, which aimed to reduce poverty through the implementation of the triangular strategy consisting
of (i) pacifying the country; (ii) integrating it into the world arena; and (iii) boosting its economic
development. The Project was considered an important element of the structural reforms supported by the
IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) and IDA's Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC)

The emphasis on security and stability suggests among other actions, military demobilization in the context
of a clear and adopted national defense strategy and policy. This policy and the role of the Royal
Cambodian Armed Forces (RCAF) were defined in a document entitle "Defending the Kingdom of
Cambodia: Security and Development, 2000". "The RCAF's reform plan requires the demobilization of
55,000 soldiers over five years in accordance with direction from the Royal Government of Cambodia."
Defending the Kingdom of Cambodia: Security and Development, 2000, p 27

While the development objectives fit well with the different strategy levels of the RGC and the World Bank
and IMF, they were insufficient. To address the subject completely, three levels of objectives would have
been needed: the first focusing on the macro-economic aspect of budget allocations between sectors; the
second focusing at the sectoral aspects of military reform, and the third focusing on the micro-level of
individual soldiers/veterans. The World Bank's mandate specifically limits it from military affairs of
member countries, and hence these related aspects were necessarily treated separately when a broader
combined perspective might have been beneficial.

The overall appreciation of risk in the Project Appraisal Document was evaluated as high risk, which was
appropriate. Mitigation measures focused on the technical issues raised, however, problems faced during
implementation were also political in nature.

The project was implemented by the Council for Demobilization of the Armed Forces (CDAF). CDAF is



                                                      - 2 -

responsible for "the demobilization and reintegration of soldiers and for providing policy coordination,
guidance and supervision of all ministries and institutions (Ministry of Woman and Veterans Affairs
(MOWVA), Ministry of Interior (MoI), Ministry of Land Management Urban Planning and Construction
(MLMUC), Ministry of Health (MoH), Ministry of Social Affairs, Veterans and Youth Rehabilitation
(MSALVY) and the provincial authorities) involved in the implementation of the demobilization program".
The CDAF General Secretariat assisted by its provincial Executive Secretariats is responsible for
implementing CDAF's decision including with respect to administration of the Project.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The Demobilisation and Reintegration Project had four main but interrelated components, each of them
designed to answer to specific objectives and each component has sub-components with related activities.
The components were appropriate for implementation of the project according to the objectives. The
components and related activities were as follows:

A- Preparation of Personnel Database and MIS
This component was intended to build on the registration activities undertaken by the RGC in 1999 with
funding from the Bank's Post Conflict Fund (PCF). The first objective of the component is "to establish a
reliable military personnel database and to develop a computerized payroll system". The second objective is
to verify the accuracy of the list of the "would-be demobilised soldiers", update their socio-economic
situation, including their choice of reintegration package and community. Component A. was funded from
the IDA credit.

B- Demobilisation and reinsertion
The Demobilisation and reinsertion component aimed to reduce the number of people in the armed forces. It
was composed of four sub-components:
l Assembly and disarmament of soldiers;
l Discharge operations to mark the formal departure of a soldier from his/her military life into civilian
    life by the withdrawal of his/her military ID Card and the provision of a discharge certificate;
l Provision for a transitional safety net (TSN) for soldiers being demobilised;
l Transportation of veterans to the villages where they would settle with their families.


Component B. was funded by the government and co-financers including WFP, Japan.

C- Reintegration
The reintegration component aimed to reintegrate the veterans in the local communities. Lessons learned
from the pilot phase and needs and vulnerability assessment were used to inform the provision of the
reintegration package. This package included (i) health screening; (ii) provision of information and
counselling for the veterans and sensitization of the host communities about the problems that veterans may
encounter; (iii) the provision of package of assistance according to the choice of option made by the
veterans; (iv) the design and implementation of skills/vocational training programs and job counselling.
Component C. was funded under the IDA credit, and the Dutch Grant, and funding for the training was
from Japan.

D- Project Implementation and Technical Assistance
The project provided support to the Implementing Agency (CDAF) at the central and provincial levels.
Based on the experiences of the pilot phase, there was a common agreement that CDAF and its General



                                                     - 3 -

Secretariat (GS) and their Executive Secretariat (ES) needed technical support. This assistance aimed (i) to
strengthen the planning and implementation capacities of the GS of CDAF, the PVCs and their Executive
Secretariat and the concerned line ministries such as the Ministry of Women's and Veteran Affairs
(MoWVA); (ii) to improve financial and data management including monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) to
facilitate the coordination and increase the linkage between the provision of reinsertion and immediate
reintegration with the on-going community development programmes in communities where veterans are
settled.

Component D. was financed by IDA and Japan.

The project was designed to include two phases of discharge and demobilization, with 15,000 soldiers in
each. Soldiers are categorized according to their ability to serve. Category I soldiers are healthy and below
retirement age, Category II soldiers are either above retirement age, chronically ill, or disabled.    The first
phase of demobilization would include 80% Category II soldiers. The remaining Category II soldiers, and
a higher percentage of Category I soldiers would be demobilized in the second phase.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The design took place over several years during which time the situation in Cambodia was highly political
and security was a problem. The preparation work included a pilot project and a number of good and
appropriate studies such as assessments of vulnerability and needs, labor and training, and gender, and an
evaluation of the pilot project.     The Bank took the lead in the highly challenging task of coordinating
donors, and developed a complicated but highly coordinated partnership. There was strong government and
donor insistence that the Bank support and lead this initiative, to which the Bank responded. Significant
attention was paid to ensuring that due process was followed, and that preparation complied with all Bank
fiduciary and safeguard policies.

Cambodia was emerging from a period of chaos. Huge challenges were being faced in formalizing and
regularizing systems and practices that had developed to function in the absence of rules or structure.
Recent struggles for power, and the absence of reliable and clear information, created an atmosphere of low
trust and deep suspicion between different stakeholders. Some factors that influenced project design and
later impacted implementation were the following:
l An unintentional consequence of the Paris peace agreement and the following political deals for the
     establishment of the coalition governments was to encourage all factions to integrate as many of their
     respective combatants as possible within the RCAF to preserve their respective military power and to
     leverage their respective political power within the coalition royal government. Project files show that
     some stakeholders expressed concerns during preparation that demobilization could potentially have
     been used to manipulate power bases by strengthening some at the cost of others. Whatever the
     substance behind these concerns, the lack of transparent process to address them satisfactorily, lead to
     the alienation of these stakeholders and a loss of credibility and confidence in both the Bank and
     implementing agency.
l The commanders, receiving insufficient and irregular funds from the center, used other means to run
     their bases including inflating the number of soldiers in their unit in order to obtain a higher salary
     budget, and so had vested interests in maintaining the system as it was. Many soldiers who for various
     reasons were no longer drawing their salaries were not removed from the payroll and were known as
     "ghost soldiers". A process of registering military personnel was carried out in 1998/9. There were
     several reports and written complaints documenting irregularities in the process, including eye-witness



                                                      - 4 -

    accounts of irregularities. The Bank and government responded by defending the numbers of personnel
    recorded in the database, which lead to a deepening of the crisis of confidence.
l Formal recruitment was halted in the early 1990's, moreover, there was no natural attrition through
    retirement as old soldiers lacking in alternatives or safetynets were staying in the military. Soldiers had
    aged but not left, and had been promoted with no replacement of young and junior troops. This had
    lead to distortion in the shape of the military with many in senior ranks and few in junior ranks. With
    many aging and sick soldiers the military played an important safety net role to vulnerable groups. The
    project design did not attempt to build a transition to a more sustainable system of attrition and social
    protection through routine retirement and pension which would have had substantial and on-going
    impact on military reform.
l The majority of individual soldiers have two to three names either for his/her personal security reasons,
    or because he/she was given the name of a former dead or lost soldier to reduce administration. This
    reality made the creation a definitive database of military personnel extremely difficult.

The Bank chose to accept the formal figures the government in their calculations ­ in particular, those
relating to the size of the military ­ despite warnings from civil society and military observers that these
were likely to be significantly inflated. The figures had been established through a registration process that
established a database of military personnel, financed with a grant from the Bank's. Questioning the
figures after the registration process had been completed was to question the effectiveness of the work
carried out under this grant. Also, questioning these figures would threaten the fragile relationship of trust
that was slowly being built between the Bank and the Government. The figures in the databases were
substantiated by figures for military personnel established from a question in the national census which was
completed before the project concept was finalized.        The question was raised as to how these figures
related to the military payroll. There was a strong likelihood that many of the soldiers recorded in the
census had been soldiers in the past, but did not now receive salaries. The database, however, was
supposed to form the basis of a computerised payroll so should have recorded only those soldiers that
received regular salaries.

Internally, there were several constraints that the Bank faced which impacted the project design.
Demobilization needed to be conceived within the framework of military reform and should have been a
process that helped to bring about the reforms. However, military reform is outside of the Bank's mandate
and as the Bank was leading the preparation a "default strategy" of support to the RGC's fiscal, public
administrative policy was adopted.       Although the Bank consulted with military attaches from donor
embassies who were supporting military reform, the division between the two had important repercussions
on both the design and the outcomes.

Also, surveys showed that the top needs and priority for soldiers was to receive cash, land, or cows on
demobilization. Land was not eligible for funding from the IDA Credit and was eliminated. The pilot
project demonstrated that procurement of cows was too complicated so these were also eliminated, and
concerns about corruption and misuse of cash eliminated the possibility of cash payments. Hence the design
was limited as to how it could respond effectively to soldiers needs.

The option of cash payments was actually the first preference of the Bank's team at the time, but this
created major controversy when rumours leaked out of proposals to pay soldiers more than $1,000 each ­ a
huge sum in Cambodia at the time. Rumours spread rapidly about the list of soldiers increasing rapidly so
that more could benefit from this windfall, leading to even greater suspicion about the actual numbers of
military personnel.

Taking these issues into consideration, questions can thus be raised regarding:


                                                      - 5 -

 i. The appropriateness of a post-conflict project type requiring rapid reaction for a short duration versus
    a public reform project which would give demobilized soldiers sustainable reintegration activities such
    as skill training and help to introduce a sustainable system of attrition, pensions and social security as
    part of a military reform strategy;
ii. Whether there was sufficient consensus within the RGC, as well as among a wider range of
    stakeholders including donors and civil society, and within the World Bank, regarding the basic
    concepts of the Demobilization and Reintegration Project. This disagreement accentuated the already
    existing high risk of failure of the project from its beginning and rendered the coordination,
    implementation, monitoring and follow up tasks, extremely difficult.

With these factors in mind, the quality at entry is rated as unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Demobilization and Reintegration Project objectives were (i) to assist the Government in its effort to
demobilize 30,000 soldiers and to promote their successful adaptation to civilian life; and (ii) to contribute
to a reallocation of budgetary resources to the social sectors in order to build human, social and economic
assets.

By the completion date, 15,000 soldiers had been successfully demobilized and received reinsertion and
reintegration packages according to project design. No evaluation was carried out as to the degree with
which they could be said to have successfully adapted to civilian life. This objective of the project was
therefore partially achieved.

The graph below shows the public spending figures on defence and social sectors since 2000. The first
phase of demobilization took place towards the end of 2001, and the project closed at the end of 2004.
Between 2000 and 2005 overall spending on defense and security has hardly changed while spending on
social sectors has more than doubled.



                             Changes in Defense and Social Sector
                                            Spending
                       800,000
                                                                       Defense and
                       700,000                                         Security
                       600,000                                         Social Sectors:
       Riels           500,000
            of         400,000                                         Public Health

                       300,000
                                                                       Education, Youth and
                       200,000
              Millions                                                 Sport
                       100,000                                         Social Affairs
                            0                                          (MSAVYR)

                              2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
                                      Fiscal Year



                                                      - 6 -

Public Expenditures (millions of Riels)
 Sector                          2000           2001           2002         2003         2004          2005
Defense and Security           450,724       425,953         406,753      411,014       422,820      451,183
Social Sectors:                298,620       395,938         487,361      506,812       550,562      670,737
Public Health                  102,226       134,040         164,391      172,966       192,062       224,550
Education, Youth and           169,861       229,574         289,669      300,458       325,908       350,768
Sport
Min. of Social Affairs.         26,533        32,323          33,301      33,388        32,592        95,419
(MSAVYR)

Also, as a share of total spending, budgetary spending on defense and security have both declined over
time, and together fell from 45.3% in 1996 to 17.8% in 2005, indicating a clear reorientation of policy
toward poverty reducing expenditures (at the same time social sector spending rose from 19.5% to 28.7%
of total budgetary expenditure).

Share of Total Spending on Defense and Security (%)
          1996     1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003     2004       2005
Defense 32.5       32.7      29.5      25.2      20.2      16.5      12.3      11.6     12.7       11.4
Security 12.8      14.6      13.7      10.1      9.3       8.5       6.6       6.3      7.5        6.4
Total     45.3     47.3      43.2      35.3      29.5      25        18.9      17.9     20.2       17.8




4.2 Outputs by components:
A- Preparation of Personnel Database and MIS
A Post Conflict Fund Grant was used to establish a MIS Military Personnel Record Management System
between May 1998 to December 1999. More than 150,000 soldiers were registered, and data cleaning and
checking led to the elimination of 15,551 "ghost soldiers" from the military payroll and 163,346 "ghost
children" of soldiers from the benefit allowance budget. This was a good initial step toward the objective of
relocating the budgetary resources from the defense sector towards the social sectors. CDAF and its GS in
particular, received the list of "would-be demobilised soldiers" from the Ministry of National Defense.
According to the GS of CDAF, it is responsible (i) for updating the 1999 MIS Database Management
System; and (ii) for ensuring that no ghost soldier was demobilised. As a civilian committee, they perceived
the issue of "ghost soldiers" on the military database, and the current military payroll, as beyond their
jurisdiction. The IDA credit funded the updating of the CV forms of military personnel serving in RCAF,
military unit by military unit, in accordance with the restructuring of the army and military personnel
movement and rotation, with the aim of establishing an accurate payroll list. Soon after effectiveness it was
found that the 1999 Military Personnel Record Management System probably still contains an inflated
number of soldiers and a joint statement by the Bank and government was released acknowledging this.
However, the RGC considers this a matter of national security and no further checks could be made.
Without an accurate list of military personnel that could be used to computerize the payroll, it would not be
possible to track the accuracy and use of the payroll budget, and hence the total amount of savings that
could be transferred to the social sectors.

Under the second objective of this component the list of soldiers to be demobilised was verified, corrected,
and checks made to ensure they met criteria for demobilization. A three-step screening was adopted: (i) The
list of "would be demobilised soldiers" communicated by the Ministry of National Defense was matched


                                                     - 7 -

with the computerized Military Personnel Record Management System consolidated by the Cambodia
Veteran Assistance Program (CVAP) computer centre of the CDAF General Secretariat in order to produce
the list of soldiers to be demobilised; (ii) A re-registration i.e. physical identification and socio-economic
update interview of the soldiers to be demobilised was made for each soldier at their military unit and (iii) a
last physical identification was completed at the discharge centre. These activities were well-implemented
and field checks showed a high degree of accuracy.

The output of the second objective of this component was the data entry and update of the socio-economic
situation of the 16,017 (15,000 soldiers and 1,027 reserves ­ 13,601 soldiers of these, or 80%, belonging to
Category II and the remaining 3,236 soldiers i.e. 20% to Category I) to be demobilised soldiers into the
MIS Military Personnel Record Management System. The computerized socio-economic information
permitted the establishment of a good plan for effective and efficient demobilisation. However, there were
increased concerns about the integrity of this process for the second phase. Most Category II soldiers (old,
sick, disabled) were discharged in the first phase and there was an increasing demand from the Category I
soldiers to get onto the lists. There was widespread concern that soldiers would buy their way onto the lists
by offering a portion of their demobilization packets to their commanders. If this happened, not only would
the intended beneficiaries not receive the benefits of the assistance, but the military might loose young and
fit soldiers that they needed to keep.        A process to mitigate this risk by including more checks and
involving civil society was discussed and agreed and all indications were that there were sufficient
safeguards in place to make the second phase as successful as the first, had the project gone ahead.

Due to the procurement-related issues the second phase of the project was not implemented so the number
of soldiers successfully captured and analysed is only 16,017, 15,000 of whom were effectively
demobilised in October 2001. However, given the successful registration of these demobilized soldiers the
component is rated satisfactory.

B- Demobilisation

The development objective was to demobilise 30,000 soldiers. Only 15,000 were demobilised. While only
half of the output targeted was reached, the implementation of this component was relatively well done.
Random checks during supervision missions and during the preparation of this ICR, showed that there was
little substance in the rumours that civilians were demobilised or that cash payments were made to military
commanders, The outputs were generally satisfactory for the first full-scale demobilisation.

The demobilisation operations of the 15,000 soldiers consisted of (i) pre-discharge activities and (ii) the
discharge operations themselves.

The outputs for the pre-discharge operation were:
 i. The disarmament of the 15,000 soldiers to be demobilised. This was handled directly by the RCAF
     within their facilities to avoid the transport and storage of weapons outside the military compound and
     to minimise the risks in order to satisfy the requirements of the Sub-Decree dated 30 April 1999 on the
     Management and Control of the import, production, sale, purchase, and use of weapons and explosives
ii. The preparation of the relevant documentation and formalities to be used at the
     demobilisation/discharge phase; and the establishment and the trainings of different technical teams
     (Two Sensitization and Information Teams; one Recapitulate Team and five Registration Technical
     Teams, two Monitoring Registration Teams, three Demobilization Technical Teams and two
     Demobilisation Monitoring Teams and their trainings on respective tasks.)
iii. Sensitization and information about the RGC's Political Platform on military reform and discharge
     planning of the first full scale demobilisation and reintegration to the six military regions;


                                                        - 8 -

 iv. The re-registration of the 16,017 would-be demobilised soldiers from April to June 2001 in 127
      military units of the RCAF;
  v. Analysis of the socio-economic situation of 16,017 would-be demobilised soldiers and the production
      of its various data and analysis for planning and implementation purposes;
 vi. The detailed planning of discharge activities;
vii. The establishment and renovation of 10 Discharge Centres in Steung Treng, Kampong Cham,
      Kampong Speu, Kampot, Siem Reap, Kampong Thom, Battambang, Banteay Meanchey, Kampong
      Chhnang and Kandal province.
viii. Sensitization and information of the recipient communities about demobilisation and coordination with
      relevant authorities at the national and regional levels for their veterans reintegration.

 All these tasks were well implemented after improvements in information dissemination activities were
 made following the suggestion of the Bank monitoring team. Implementation of the pre-discharge
 operations was satisfactory.

 The discharge operations were conducted in the ten discharge centres within the ten military regions and
 sub-regions under the control of CDAF. Each soldier to be demobilised was discharged at a discharge
 centre in his/her region of service. Three discharge centres operated simultaneously in three different
 regions in order to accelerate the process. The discharge of the 15,000 military personnel from 127
 RCAF's units took place from 15 October to 26 December 2001 in 42 sessions each lasting 4 processing
 days.

 The outputs for these discharge operation were:
  i. The reception and identification of the 15,000 to-be-demobilised soldiers at the ten discharge centres.
      Each soldier to be demobilised was screened at his arrival at the discharge centre to ensure that his/her
      identity corresponded to that on the list of soldiers to be demobilised at a specific discharge centre.
 ii. The update of the socio-economic data, and the registration of individual choice for the reintegration
      package.
iii. The distribution of 15,000 reinsertion packages including:
     l Food rations: each individual soldier to be demobilised received 150 kilograms of rice, 6 box of
           sardines, 1 kilogram of iodized salt and 3-4 liters of vegetable cooking oil distributed by the World
           Food Programme.
     l Health screening provided by the IOM.
     l A household kit containing a mat, mosquito net, blanket, water bucket, water container, digging
           hoe, knife, saw, nails, hammock, kettle, cooking pot, powder soap, axe, plastic sheets and a nylon
           bag.
     l Information and orientation about a number of topics such as the Cambodia Veteran Assistance
           Program; Weapons Reduction; Human Rights; Democracy and the Role of Civil Society; Health
           Care; and Gender issues, as provided by NGOs partners such as Weapon Reduction Working
           Group.
     l Payment of severance pay of US$ 240 to each individual to-be-discharged soldier.
 iv. The formal discharge of 3,010 soldiers from category I and 11,990 soldiers from category II of whom
      3,685 were chronically ill, 5,789 disabled and 2,326 elderly. The formal discharge included the
      withdrawal of the Military Identification Card from the discharged soldiers and the delivery of the
      Discharge Certificate to the newly veterans.
  v. The transportation of the 15,000 veterans to the communities of their choice.

 The implementation of this component was impressive in the highly efficient manner that CDAF
 implemented such a logistically complex activity. The ICR finds that the discharge operations of the first


                                                        - 9 -

full scale demobilisation of 15,000 to be demobilised soldiers were conducted as planned, and in a
satisfactory manner.      Based on this experience, it can be assumed that without the misprocurement issue,
and had the project gone ahead, the demobilization of the second 15,000 soldiers would have taken place in
an equally efficient and satisfactory manner.

C- Reintegration

The reintegration component was designed to answer to the objective of reintegration of the veterans into
the civilian life in the community of their choice. In order to optimize the success of this component, lessons
learned from the pilot phase and the outputs of the needs and vulnerability assessment conducted by the
NGO Lidee Khmer, were taken into consideration to design the reintegration package. The reintegration
package was conceived (i) to support and assist veterans and their families to reintegrate into communities
and (ii) to develop alternatives to military employment and income.        Soldiers identified land, cows, and
cash as their primary needs, however, the IDA credit could not be used to finance land, procurement of so
many cows was not possible, and donors were concerned about disbursing cash effectively in the weak
governance environment. Goods were therefore identified that would provide demobilized soldiers with a
means of generating income in their communities.

The outputs of this component were:
 i. The health screening and information provided by IOM to the 15,000 veterans;
ii. The design and distribution of the reintegration assistance package as follows:
   l 253 sets of the first option (Shelter);
   l 872 sets of the second option (generators plus 150 m of wire and water pump machine including
         100 meters of outlet and 5 meters of inlet)
   l 111 sets of the third option (generator plus 300 meters of wire and water pump and sewing and
         over edging machine);
   l 13,764 sets of the fourth option (Motorbike plus spare part, tires and cask; and sewing machine);
   l Medical kits containing 12 items distributed by the Cambodian Red Cross;
   l Skill training according to the veterans' personal choice made at the discharge centre. A Pilot Skills
         Training Project (STP) was undertaken in Takeo and Kampong Speu provinces funded by Japan
         through JICA in 2003, and based on the experience CDAF General Secretariat has continued to
         provide skills training to demobilized soldiers;
   l Provision for 459 artificial limbs;
   l Integration into the development community. A July 2003 report mentioned that 4,936 out of the
         15,000 veterans have received community development services such as medical treatment free of
         charge, rural credits, seed crops and animals.

This component suffered from long delays. The procurement of the reintegration packages could not begin
until the Financial Management and Procurement consultants had been selected and mobilized. The
process of consultant selection was delayed due to the over-stretched capacity of CDAF staff in preparing
and implementing the demobilization of the first 15,000 soldiers. Although the delays were due to proper
process being followed, and the timing could have been predicted, the length of time between
demobilization and veterans receiving their reintegration packages was a cause for concern and tension.
The original plan was for a 6-month gap between demobilization and receipt of the packages to give
soldiers time to settle into their communities, in fact it was more than one year. To ease the hardship
caused by the delay a second food assistance of 150 kilograms was delivered by the WFP and funded by
the Government of Japan. As with the demobilization process, the organisation of the distribution and
handover of the reintegration packages was performed smoothly and very efficiently and                  13,764
motorbikes were handed over in an orderly manner in a very short period in the 24 provinces. However,


                                                      - 10 -

this occurred after the investigation into the procurement of the motorbikes had been launched which later
lead to declaration of misprocurement in June 2003, and ensuing stalling of the project activities.

The output of this reintegration component is rated satisfactory.

D- Project Administration and Management

The objective of this component was to facilitate the implementation of the Project activities by
strengthening the Borrower's agencies responsible for the Project execution, through the provision of
specialist technical services and training, and acquisition of vehicles, equipment and material.           A
consulting firm was contracted by the Government in accordance with the Credit Agreement and the World
Bank Guidelines, for Financial Management and Procurement Management. The selection and contracting
of the consulting firm was the main reason for the nine month delay between negotiations and effectiveness.

The component main outputs were as follows:

Project Management:
A Project Implementation Plan was produced and submitted to the World Bank for approval, and several
activities were undertaken to develop a monitoring system. Progress on these activities, especially the
monitoring system, was very promising. Had the project continued, it is likely that both planning and
monitoring would have continued to improve and would have been satisfactory.

Financial Management: Improvement on some financial procedures and suggestions to translate them into
Khmer for the use at the provincial Executive Secretariats were suggested by the Bank and followed by the
CDAF. Once the financial management software was installed and the consultants were in place, the
quality of reports improved. In total six quarterly financial and activity reports were submitted from the
first quarter 2001 to the second quarter 2002. Following the declaration of misprocurement in June 2003
on the contract for supply of motorbikes, the Bank requested that the sum paid to the supplier be recorded
in the Financial Management Report, verified by an audit, and the full amount returned to the Special
Account. However, the declaration of misprocurement on the $6.93 million contract was not reflected in
the next Financial Management Report sent to the Bank, which was therefore not accepted by them. The
next report was not received by the Bank until January 2005, after the Bank had considered suspending
their entire portfolio in Cambodia pending resolution of this and other issues in the Demobilization project.

From the time the project became effective, the audit report for the earlier pilot project was already
overdue. The Government was concerned that the pilot project grants did not provide the funding for the
audit, and were also keen that the audits should be carried out by the National Audit Authority. Bank rules
require that the audits be undertaken according to international standards, but agreed that funding could be
used from the IDA Credit for this purpose. This continued to be a major issue until the audit report for the
project and pilot project was submitted on 25 April 2005. The audit was unqualified. The auditor attested
the accuracy and proper financial position of the project.

Despite the delays in producing the final satisfactory reports and in undertaking the audit, the records were
maintained, and accurately kept. Therefore, financial management of the project is rated satisfactory.

Procurement Management:
Procurement was a very important issue on this project as it led to the suspension of the IDA Credit.
Reports and Aide Mémoires show that the bidding processes for most of the packages procurred was
implemented smoothly in accordance with relevant guidelines of the World Bank.


                                                    - 11 -

Only the bidding (ICB No. CDRP/ICB/RAP/L5) for the supply of 13,764 motorcycles amounting to $6.93
million was problematic. A complaint received after the contract had been awarded to the winning bidder
was found to raise a number of problems that were substantiated by the task team. The Bank requested
additional information from the government but as the concerns persisted, an investigation was initiated by
the World Bank's Department of Institutional Integrity (INT). It was found that the Bank had been
presented with inaccurate and misleading information in order to influence the decision to give no objection
to the award of contract, and that the winning bidder, the Lowest Substantially Responsive Evaluated
Bidder was found not to meet the bid requirement on the past experience criteria defined under ITB 13.3
(d): "all bidders are required to ...have well established service center facilities with adequate stock of
spare parts in Phnom Penh during the period not less than two (2) years prior bidding". As this criteria
was one of the substantial requirements of the bidding process the World Bank decision was to declare
misprocurement and the government was notified of this intention. Between April 2003 and June 2003 the
government was provided with several opportunities to review the report and discuss the findings with the
Bank but chose not to do so. Hence, the formal declaration of misprocurement was released on 26 June
2003. Independently, INT reported to the World Bank Sanctions committee and in November 2004, five
individuals and four firms were debarred for varying periods from participating in World-Bank funded
projects for their role in this incident. Details of the sanctions are provided in Annex 8. CDAF protested
the decision to declare misprocurement since it considers that the procurement and financial management
was the full responsibility of the consulting firm hired using the IDA credit.

Considering these facts and the impact of this bidding issue on the whole implementation of the project, the
output of the procurement management is rated unsatisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The annual fiscal impact was expected to be at least to US$ 10.3 million..

The figures produced by the Ministry of Economy and Finance indicate a decrease in (i) the monthly wage
bill presented by the Ministry of National Defense from 12,857,190,000 riels (US$ 321,429 approx.) in
September 2001 to 11,598,629,000 riels (US$ 289,965 approx.) in September 2002, and in (ii) the number
of employees on the payroll, from 130,695 to 112,359, during the same period. This figure--a reduction of
18,336 soldiers--seems realistic taking into consideration the demobilization of 15,000 soldiers in October
2001.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial Rate of Return was not calculated

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Significant capacity was built in the Secretariate of the Council for Demobilization of Armed Forces in
project management and implementation. Also the committees at the province level were developed and
functioned within the limits of the budgets and activities they were involved with. To the extent that the
institutions were developed for the sole purpose of demobilizing soldiers, long term sustainability of these
institutions were not an objective of the project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Most of the factors that impacted the implementation and outcomes were non-tangible factors related to
working in a rapidly changing post-conflict political environment. Also, in this environment, the absence of
effective home-grown checks and balances influences the nature of the relationship between government



                                                     - 12 -

and donors.

Political factors influencing the way that the project developed and the outcomes started with the historical
context of how the different factions of the army came to be integrated after the Paris Peace Accord, and
the risks of influencing figures in the fragile peace that followed. The complexity and implications of this
were not fully appreciated in the design.

The troubles in 1997, added a further dimension immediately prior to the project design. Opposition
parties and civil society were deeply concerned that consolidating military power in the hands of one
political party would impede progress towards democracy.            A counter argument to this was in the
deeply-held need for peace and security that was widely felt at the time, and which limited the space and
tolerance for debate of different opinions. Suspicion between the different parties was high, particularly
with regard to discussion on demobilization, and concern to avoid disagreements that might incite conflict
meant that much of the preparation of the project was carried out through bilateral discussions between the
government and the donors.        This lack of broad-based consultation, and avoidance of confronting
controversial issues head-on, only served to further increased suspicion and reduce the broad buy-in for
demobilization.

Aside from the political issues, several factors that affected the outcomes related to the limitations of the
Bank's mandate. First, military reform and demobilization needed to be dealt with in parallel for the best
outcomes, but the Bank was the lead donor in demobilization, and could not become involved in military
reform which was outside its mandate. Specifically, demobilization needed to help the military transition
into an appropriate defense force for the future. Separation of the two reforms resulted in undermining
both of them. For example, the government's announcement in 2004, that it would introduce compulsory
military service, cast a shadow over the justification for demobilization. Had the project continued to the
second phase as planned, this announcement would have drawn considerable criticism and would have
placed the Bank in a difficult position.

Also, it was the need to stay within the Bank's mandate and guidelines that lead to a design that included
packages of goods as reintegration packages, when soldiers top needs and priorities were for sustainable
pensions (for those that were eligible), land, cows, or cash. Goods packages were more likely to be
received as gifts from the state, provided incentives for other soldiers to stay in the army in the hope of one
day also receiving a gift to leave, and as many were later sold by soldiers to raise cash to use for their
priority needs, it was not a cost effective way to meet the soldiers needs. It was unlikely that ghost soldiers
would be promoted and therefore likely that most of the ghost soldiers were in the lower ranks. Soldiers to
be demobilized were mostly drawn from these lower ranks. Later field visits confirmed that demobilized
soldiers did exist and were not ghosts. As the ghost soldiers were not demobilized, they must have stayed
on the payroll, this would have increased the percentage of ghosts in the reduced lower ranks.
Demobilization may therefore have further accentuated the distortions in the profile of the army.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A further political challenge came in the run-up to the 2003 election which coincided with the hand-out of
the reintegration packages at high profile ceremonies lead by local officials. Both donors and opposition
were concerned about the lack of separation between political parties and delivery of public services and, in
the case of donors, the separation between donor assistance and politics.       In the case of demobilization,
this coincided with the investigation of the procurement issues. The Bank considered that withholding the
information on the declaration of misprocurement until after the elections would be perceived as a political
move and therefore tried to release the information as soon as possible. On the other hand, the government



                                                    - 13 -

perceived the Bank's concern to release the information as a political move, and resisted discussion on the
issue to reach a joint position. The information was held for two months to give the government the
opportunity to review the report and discuss the case, but they chose not to do this and the information was
finally disclosed, to no ones satisfaction, just one month before elections.

The issues that needed to be resolved following the declaration of misprocurement in order to continue the
project were left to be discussed when the new government was in place. However, a political stalemate of
fifteen months following the election meant that a caretaker government was in place with the authority
only to deal with day to day issues of government.          The issues needing to be resolved, including the
repayment of $2.7 million to the Special Account, were far from routine, hence it was not until towards the
end of 2004, and just months before the closing date of the credit, that the discussion could be reopened
with the new government.

Over this same period between 2002 and 2004, donors concerns about the poor progress on many of the
reform areas they had been supporting, also came to the fore. Cambodian people and civil society were
increasingly voicing their concerns regarding widespread corruption, and donors were starting to
acknowledge that they had to take some responsibility for the slow progress being made. While this was
taking place as part of a much broader discussion of governance and aid effectiveness, the demobilization
issues were providing one of the few tangible examples of things going wrong in procurement and attracted
much attention. In this context, it became difficult to continue a constructive technical relationship between
the task team and the implementing agency.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The presence of ghost soldiers on the 1999 MIS Military Record Management System created uncertainty
regarding the number of actual soldiers in the armed forces. The issue was not addressed and resulted in
hindering the effectiveness of the demobilization process and reducing the credibility of both the Bank and
the government agencies involved.

In addition, there were several factors relating to project management and implementation that impacted the
success of the project:

l Delays in starting the procurement process for the reintegration packages resulted in a long waiting
     period between demobilization and delivery of the packages which caused hardships for demobilized
     soldiers;
l Involvement of civil society in monitoring of the implementation had the potential to increase the
     credibility of the program and would have helped to give credit to some of the very efficient work of
     CDAF . However, although a good monitoring framework was designed, this was never implemented
     as the project was stopped.
l Misunderstanding and differences of opinion in the later stage of the project could have been avoided
     with better clarification on the role and responsibility of the consultants, for example in their TORs and
     contracts, and clearer lines of responsibility and accountability.
l The implementing agencies reluctance to acknowledge and address issues including those relating to
     misprocurement: repayment of the outstanding funds, and submission of financial reports and audits on
     time, ultimately lead to canceling most of the credit.

Normally, many of the issues raised would have been identified during a Mid Term Review mission and
actions agreed to address them. However, with the long delays in addressing the issues of misprocurement
following the elections and while the interim government was in place, no MTR was undertaken. By the



                                                      - 14 -

time the new government was installed and issues resolved, the closing date of the credit agreement had
passed and the government had indicated that it no longer wished the Bank to finance further
demobilization efforts.

5.4 Costs and financing:


     Project Financial                  Japanese        Dutch          WFP            IDA      Counterpart Total in US$
 Statements (1 Sept 2001                 Grant          Grant         Grant         Credit      Funds and
   to 31 January 2005)                                                                           Swedish
                                                                                                  Grant
Sources of Funds:                       5,769,583     1,340,786     1,259,845    3,945,268      11,724,249  24,039,731
Disbursed
Uses of Funds:
                 Data entry cost                                                                  10,800         10,800
                 Demobilization         1,440,623                   1,259,845                    763,589     3,464,057
            Reintegration ­ net         2,222,169      1,340,786                                10,667,537  14,230,492
                         Project
 Implementation and Technical                                                      675,668       169,070       844,738
      Reimbursed or Cancelled                          659,214                   3,269,600
TOTAL Expenses                          3,662,792      1,340,786    1,259,845      675,668      11,610,996  18,550,087



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
More than 15,000 soldiers (plus 1,500 from the pilot project) have been demobilized and are no longer on
the payroll, and a reliable system for recording demobilized soldiers was developed. Soldiers all received
packages and the potential for them to be absorbed into civilian life seemed good. The government
developed capacity to implement a complicated demobilization program.

On the other hand, outputs that would have increased sustainability, such as effective pension, social
security, military computerized payroll systems, from the project, were not developed.

Military spending reduced after the first phase of demobilization and has only risen again slowly, however,
as a percentage of overall public spending the defence and security spending continues to fall. Meanwhile
there has been rapid and continuing improvements in the budgets allocated to the social sectors.

The new law relating to compulsory military service has been drafted and discussed at the National
Assembly. At the time of preparing this report, the law had not been passed or implemented, and no further
demobilization had taken place.

The RGC no longer wants the Bank to be involved with future demobilization projects and the future of
demobilization is in question.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The institutions and systems were set up with the sole aim of demobilizing soldiers, hence there was never
an intention to transition the demobilization institutions and systems into a regular operation. The only
aspect which would have been long term was the transfer of veterans and widows to the pension list and



                                                      - 15 -

continuation of payment of pensions. Had the project continued, this would have been a key area of focus
in the second phase.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank took on the responsibility of lead donor for this program when other donors were not prepared to
do this even though demobilization had been identified as a high priority reform. The high risk was well
recognized, though the highly politically charged atmosphere and the implications of this were perhaps
underestimated.     Also, during the early stages the attention on the governance issues in Cambodia was
coming to the fore and donors were being accused of complicity. Demobilization in particular became the
target of criticism and the Bank's defence of payroll figures, which were widely thought to be inflated,
undermined their credibility. The project became the lightning rod for frustrations with the generally weak
governance environment and lack of development process, and received significant attention in civil society
and the media as well as from member-state governments.          Task teams at both lending and supervision
stages were working in extremely difficult environments.

The Bank correctly identified the need for a project given the importance attached to reducing defense
spending by government, civil society, and the donor community, and the consistency of the project with the
documented priorities of the time. The Bank had been engaged in dialogue with the government for several
years prior to the project commencing and a lot of technically very good work had been done. Surveys and
studies on the needs of demobilized soldiers, labor and training, a gender assessment, and other studies
were identified and carried out by the Bank or partners. A pilot project was implemented and evaluated by
a local research organization prior to implementing the main project, and significant attention had been paid
to ensuring compliance with fiduciary and safeguard policies.        Technically all the work carried out in
preparation was good, and all procedures followed. Manuals, procedures, logistics and highly complex
coordination of multiple donors were very strong. Procedures and responsibilities were worked out with
high level of attention to detail and working closely with the government.

Most, but not all the key project risks were identified at appraisal, the financial package was adequate and
relations with the Bank, IMF and donor agencies were good.            Implementation plan and performance
indicators were adequate and the project was designed according to the Bank's safeguard policies. A
specific mission was sent to ensure this consistency. The previous experience in the pilot phase was used to
inform the design of the full-scale demobilisation project.

However, much of this was undermined by the constraint of post-conflict Cambodian coalition governments
and the importance of the military in the Cambodian environment at that time. A narrow partnership with
CDAF did not take account of the difficult position CDAF was in within the government in dealing with
different voices and vested interests. Also, greater attention to consultations with, and warnings from, civil
society and others, would have resulted in a more cautious acceptance of assumptions that influenced the
design. However, given the highly-charged political environment at the time, consultations were often not
productive.    A consultative process would have needed to be designed specially, and managed with
appropriately skilled personnel in order to have been effective.

The Bank placed too much reliance on some key figures and information, including the 1999 Registration
database, which was used as the basis for project design. Concerns about this information were expressed
from many stakeholders and are well documented, and were later found to be substantiated in the field by



                                                     - 16 -

the supervision time. More caution about defending the information and in understanding the concerns and
the realities would have helped base the project on sound foundations.

The technical capacity of CDAF was good but still needed support to meet the complexities of the project's
financial and procurement management. However, the Bank's concern to "ring-fence" the project financial
management and procurement appears to have resulted in the government understanding that it would not
be held accountable for the firm it had hired to help handle these matters. Legal responsibility for all
aspects of project information always lies with the Borrower, and this confusion regarding the lines of
responsibility lead to significant problems in the relationship between the Bank and the government later.

 To a certain extent the limitations on what the Bank considered eligible expenditures reduced the choices
given to demobilized soldiers, and meant they were still not able to meet their greatest needs (land, cows,
cash, or social security). However, there were possibly other more appropriate options that could have been
considered given that soldiers were already mostly living in communities prior to discharge, that the project
needed to reduce incentives to stay in the army beyond retirement age (waiting to be demobilized), and that
the Category II soldiers needed on-going safety net support, there are possibly other options that may have
been more appropriate.

Two meetings of the Bank's Regional Operating committee were held to review the preparation and help
address the key issues. However, military reform, and the management of external perceptions, which were
both important factors, were not dealt with at these meetings.      During these meetings there was strong
pressure for a consulting company to be contracted to address fiduciary risk, which later lead to
misunderstanding with the government.

Initially the project was managed by the Post Conflict Unit, however, concerns were raised in-country with
regard to the proposed design and the consultation process and senior regional management transferred
management to the country unit.         This was an added burden for an already thinly stretched country
management unit, it also placed conflicting demands on the management team with regard to the
relationship with the government. Also, this transfer meant that there was no longer technical expertise, or
experience with similar projects, in the task team who had to take on a complex and highly controversial
issue.

Despite the considerable attention to technical aspects, and good compliance with all administrative and
procedural aspects, the Bank's performance during the lending period is rated unsatisfactory.


7.2 Supervision:

When the project became effective the management was transferred from management by the country
management unit to management by a sector unit. This change was to bring it in line with the Bank's
normal operating procedures of having technical units take the responsibility for technical quality of project
and also to relieve the conflicting pressures on the country management with respect to their relationship
with the government. However, as suspicion surrounding the project was very high at the time following
several high profile articles in international media, the implementing agency also perceived that it heralded
a change in approach by the Bank, and fuelled conspiracy theories regarding the real motive of the Bank.

It is true that the Bank renewed its efforts to understand better the underlying concerns about the project
and in doing so opened dialogue with a broader range of stakeholders.         The Task team also adopted a
proactive approach to identify important long-term issues. Considerable time was spent in the field with
beneficiaries during the first two missions and a monitoring and evaluation system for socio-economic



                                                      - 17 -

impact of the project was designed and ready for implementation. The advice given to CDAF was adequate
(project information system, transparency plan, to make the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) more
practical and translated in Khmer) and due diligence action with due process were followed for sensitive
issues, which were adequately handled by the Country Director and the Bank's highest management.
Efforts were made to develop a more inclusive and participatory monitoring system involving a broader
group of stakeholders that would also help to recognize and give credit and credibility to the substantial
positive progress being made by CDAF, as well as to actively identify and address issues and problems
jointly and in a credible manner. However, the project was stopped before these could be implemented.

Once the misprocurement issues were raised, senior Bank management were continuously involved and
provided hands-on support and guidance at each step. Although a formal process requiring formal steps
and correspondence had been initiated, all efforts were made to hold informal high-level meetings prior to
any formal correspondence being sent, in order to inform and explain the process to the government,
answer their questions and advise on options.       Once the implementing agency decided to stop attending
such meetings, the Bank continued this dialogue with the Ministry of Finance as the legal counterpart.

Bank relations with development partners:
The relation with the implementing agency which were good during the early stages, became tense
following the decision to investigate the procurement issues, which led to the suspension of the IDA Credit
and termination of the cooperation on this specific project. Despite this, relations with the Ministry of
Finance and other senior officials were maintained throughout.

The World Bank had full confidence from their other donor partners in managing the project. Advance
facilities were even accorded in order to facilitate the project cash flow. Some donors were encouraged by
the stand that the World Bank took in handling the misprocurement issue and in general expect that the
Bank reacts strongly against any corruption acts when it exists. Others prefer firm stand with lesser
confrontational approach. A smoother exchange of information could also have prevented some donors
from relying too much on journalistic or polemic information released by thirds parties. Globally, the
relations with other donor partners were good.

The Bank's Quality Assurance Group reviewed the quality of supervision and gave a satisfactory rating.
This ICR agrees with the QAG report and rating.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Several aspects of lending and supervision reflect well on the Bank's performance. The Bank rose to the
challenge and led a highly complex preparation dialogue. Much of the work during preparation was done
well, and the supervision team tackled difficult and sensitive issues professionalism. However, a lack of
realism in the early stages, a need for greater political awareness, and a lack of understanding of the
implication of working with the Bank mandate lead to serious consequences for the project. For this reason
the overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Technically the preparation of the project was undertaken with a degree of efficiency, including the
successful implementation of the pilot project, implementation of several appropriate studies, and
preparation of procedures and workplans. Executive Secretariats were prepared throughout the country.
However, a more open acceptance of issues and challenges at this stage, and realistic caution with regard to
figures, especially the database, would have helped to build more solid foundations for the project, and
given them greater credibility in the longer term.




                                                      - 18 -

The reluctance to openly accept and address the realities of the significant challenges they faced at this
early stage, impacted the eventual outcomes of the project. Therefore, the Government's preparation of the
project is rated unsatisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The General Secretariat of CDAF as Implementing Agency made tremendous efforts to implement the
Project considering the suspicious environment surrounding its implementation. Documentary evidence and
many interviewees commended CDAF technical capacity in handling this complex project. There was only
limited international technical assistance involved in the preparations of the demobilization centers
throughout the country, and the smooth and efficient implementation of demobilization for 15,000 soldiers.
However, moving ahead with the demobilization of 15,000 soldiers before preparations to implement the
credit were in place, resulted in long delays in the soldiers receiving the reintegration packages. Despite
this, the ability of CDAF to deal with the complicated planning and logistics challenges the commonly held
perceptions of weak capacity within the government.           The early indications for successful project
implementation were good.

At an early stage in project implementation, CDAF recognized that a more open approach and broader
consultation while it may be difficult and controversial, might lead them to getting better recognition for the
significant achievements it had made.      Indeed, they accepted the involvement of several civil society
organisations such as Lidee Khmer, Weapon Reduction working Group, Cambodian Red Cross. They had
also agreed on a step-by-step approach involving civil society to verify the list of soldiers to be demobilized
in the second phase, and had agreed on a framework for transparency, and an intensive monitoring
framework for the project. Their willingness to discuss and work on these is commendable, and was
without precedent at the time. Unfortunately, CDAF was never provided with the opportunity to implement
these activities due to the procurement issues that overshadowed the project and stopped implementation.

Activities to support the soldiers demobilized in the first stage were continued after the second phase was
suspended. The government continued to be active in delivering training support to demobilized soldiers
funded by the government of Japan.

To acknowledge the significant achievements that were made in discharge and demobilization of 15,000
soldiers, the government implementation performance is rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
According to the General Secretariat of CDAF the issues leading to misprocurement arose because they
relied too much on information and documents provided to them by the Procurement consultant and the
winning bidder. The borrower holds all legal responsibilities stated in the DCA and cannot delegate these
however, there were misunderstandings regarding the role of the consultants in taking on such responsibility
which could have been clarified earlier.

Under their obligations it would have been appropriate for the government to have initiated their own
investigation once the Bank raised the procurement problems.          Failure to do so resulted in the Bank
launching their own investigation with which the government was given every opportunity to cooperate and
work together with the Bank. CDAF did not feel the investigation was justified and distanced themselves
from the process leading to increased tension between the Bank and the government, heightened by the
Bank's decision to declare misprocurement. Having decided not to take the opportunity to see the report
on the investigation, CDAF considered the declaration of misprocurement to be a unilateral decision by the
Bank.
Satisfactory implementation performance acknowledged in the previous section aside, the implementing



                                                     - 19 -

agency was reluctant to acknowledge or address problems, and therefore their performance is rated
unsatisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The fact that CDAF was put under the jurisdiction of the Council of Minister having direct communication
with the Prime Minister gave weight to CDAF's decisions and directives. However, this does not release
CDAF from pressure and resistance, and their relationship with other agencies, including the Ministry of
Defense was often tense. The Military Payroll issues, which contributed to the eventual suspensionof the
project, was an issue that needed to be acknowledged and addressed by the Ministry of Defense and to a
large extent out of the hands of CDAF. The militaries unchallenged position in the country put this issue
out of reach of any of those wanting to address it.

The Ministry of Finance had a better understanding of the legal issues and obligations, and of the Bank's
position and relations with the MoFE were maintained throughout. The year-long political stalemate before
convening the new government, severely restricted the ability of all government agencies, including the
MoFE to act proactively on such a controversial subject that could threaten unity between different
agencies.    As soon as they were able and had the authority to do so, the MoFE with the agreement of
CDAF acted promptly to solve remaining issues and assist with closure of the project.

Ultimately, the RGC requested the termination of the DCA with the World Bank, and decided to pursue the
project without the World Bank as a partner. The issues leading up to and resulting from the declaration
of misprocurement severely impacted the project outcomes, and therefore the Borrowers performance is
rated unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The issues which arose due to the political environment, highlight the need for good and frank political
analysis and assessment to be part of project preparation. This may be controversial in the context of
relationship with the borrower, but is essential to ensure that projects are underpinned with realistic
assessments of the political issues.

The Demobilization Project highlighted the skewed lines of accountability that exist in Cambodia, whereby
citizens put pressure on donor agencies to exact accountability from the government in the absence of either
the power, or the formal institutions to do so themselves. In responding to this pressure in the absence of
any third parties or independent monitors, trust between the Bank and the government is severely damaged.
For the Bank to assist in developing better mechanisms of accountability in the government, makes sense
from the perspective of internal governance, as well as ultimately helping to create a healthier environment
for them to work together.

Even in the absence of formal mechanisms in the country, the Bank and Implementing agency can do much
to help build trust between all parties from the outset by agreeing on process and procedures to ensure
transparency and encouraging broad participation from a range of stakeholders at all stages in the project.
It is far easier to start out this way than to try and act retrospectively when incentives not to open up may
already be in place. On the other hand it is also important to avoid polemic or politically-motivated
involvement through careful, joint selection of people to be involved, and gradually building of trust from
the outset between all parties. Discussions and consultation with broad base of stakeholders is essential.
Where there is controversy in the discussion, this needs to be carefully managed with good preparation,
clear expectations, and openness.        Avoiding consultations can lead to greater suspicion which can
undermine even a good process of implementation.



                                                      - 20 -

Good knowledge and understanding of the military issues, and objectives of military reform should be an
essential element of designing demobilization. The Bank cannot provide this, and therefore worked with
others who could, including the military attaches of other countries, however, this was insufficient to bring
these two reform agendas together. Analysis of the military should include frank assessments of the
structure, composition, leadership, history, incentives, and political allegiances.        Also, politics and the
military change rapidly in a post conflict environment and a longer term perspective and objectives need to
be agreed.

Registration of soldiers needs to be carried out with extreme caution.            Once done it cannot easily be
corrected so all efforts need to be taken to ensure that it is correct in the first place. This may be expensive
in the short term but could lead to cost savings in the long run.       Preparations to register need to include
civilian authorities, and civil society, and significant investments in checks and balances and monitoring is
required to build confidence.

Demobilization projects need to be designed so that they do not increase incentives for soldiers to stay in
the army in the hope of being included in a later stage, but progressively offer encouragement to leave for
those that are no longer suitable to serve. Moreover, different options should be presented for those with
different needs. The majority of soldiers demobilized in the first phase, were old, chronically sick, or
disabled. For many, there was little opportunity for them to earn income and a more sustainable safety net
may have been more appropriate.

The Bank relies heavily on the application of specific procedures and guidelines and on the documentation
submitted. Unfortunately, this is not sufficient in a country where governance or rule-of-law are weak and
there is seldom any follow up of problems to reduce incentives not to abuse this. Increased monitoring of
outputs on the ground, and greater inclusion of civil society and others in monitoring these outputs would
be beneficial all round, however, clear expectations and agreements need to be established at the outset on
this.

Legal agreements and Terms of Reference for consultants need to be carefully reviewed to ensure that there
is no doubt as to the level of responsibility delegated to the consultants.             Consultants that provide
specialized services to the government cannot, under any circumstances, take on the borrowers
responsibilities for meeting the legal conditions. However, the borrower should also be made more aware
of their rights in case of negligence on the part of the consultants and be encouraged to exert these rights
when there has been wrong-doing.

Strong leadership by Bank management in difficult cases is essential. In this case, guidance on approach
was provided by the Country Director and other senior regional staff throughout, sharing the responsibility
and continually supporting the task team.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

CDAF insisted that:       (i) documentary evidence provided by the winner, the Lowest Substantially
Responsive Evaluated Bidder as well as the verification made by the Procurement Consultant acting of
behalf of CDAF seemed to have demonstrated complying evidence; (ii) CDAF acted with sincerity and due
diligence in accordance with the DCA requirement and therefore the RGC should not be held responsible
for the professional negligence; (iii) if the World Bank declares misprocurement, the responsibility and



                                                      - 21 -

accountability resulting from this declaration should be shared by the project partners and the RGC should
not be the only one accountable. Further discussion on these issues can be found in the following
documents available from the Council of Ministers: "Memorandum of Procurement and Award of Contract
to the Winning Bid for the Supply of 13,764 Motorcycle (Re: CDRP1/ICB/RAP/L5) under the
Implementation of Reintegration Assistance Component of the CDRP 1er Phase" and "RGC Aide-Memoire
on the Issues of Misprocurement Under the Reintegration and Demobilisation Project".

Detailed comments from the Borrower on this ICR are included in Annex 7 and have been taken into
account either through edits or provision of further clarification. The comments are unedited except for the
addition of footnotes to identify how the comment has been addressed in the final ICR, and the removal of
names.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments from the co-financers have been taken into account in preparation of the ICR. The co-financers
generally appreciated the Bank taking the lead in such a challenging effort and have been supportive of the
way the issues were handled, though with some regret that it was not possible to implement the second
phase.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators

Indicator                      Projected in SAR/PAD End of Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Project
  # Soldiers removed from       30,000                         15,000
military records and payroll
database

   # veterans and their         30,000                           15,000
families able to maintain or
improve their standard of
living

Budget allocated and spent on    Increase in expenditure for   The Treasury Executed
health, education, agriculture social sectors and decrease in  Spending as a percentage of the
and rural development          expenditure for defence         GDP has almost doubled
expanded                                                       between 1998 and 2003 for the
                                                               social sectors (from 2.1% to
                                                               4.1%), and has significantly
                                                               decreased for the Defence sector
                                                               (from 3.5% to 1.7%) Integrated
                                                               Fiduciary Assessment and
                                                               Public Expenditure Review,
                                                               September 2003


Output Indicators:


       Indicator                 Projected in SAR/PAD           Actual/Latest Estimate
  Data of military personnel           No specific target     16,500 Demobilized soldiers
completed, updated and                                        removed from database and
reflects current records of all                               separate records maintained
active personnel including
removal of demobilized                                        Unable to obtain data from
soldiers                                                      military on the military
                                                              personnel database
   # of civilian ID cards                  30,000             15,000
provided to former soldiers
relative to the number of
soldiers demobilized under
project

Actual transfer and                   No specific target      Need to clarify with RGC
receipt of veterans'
files to PVCs and
relevant line Ministries


                                                    - 23 -

for follow-up
   # of demobilization events   No specific target   10



% of demobilized               No specific target    100% of 15,000
soldiers who receive
complete reinsertion
package
% of demobilized               No specific target    100% of 15,000 received
soldiers and their                                   packages within first 18
families who receive                                 months
reintegration assistance
within six months of
reintegration




                                             - 24 -

 Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                               Appraisal Actual/Latest Percentage of
        Component              Estimate       Estimate   3    Appraisal
Data Management and MIS                0.2             0.011           5.5%
    Demobilization                    13.2               3.46         26.2%

    Reintegration                     22.8               14.3         62.7%

 Project Implementation, TA            3.9                0.8         20.5%
 and studies
 Contingencies                         1.9
 Total                                   42              18,5          44%
3From FMR.


 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million equivalent)** Note: NBF = Not Bank
 Financed (includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultants under trust funds,
 any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangements for items
 listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as NBF need to be explained in footnotes to the table.




        Categories                                 Appraisal Estimate (US $ Million
                          ICB               NCB              Other  5         NBF                   Total

1. Works                          0.00              0.00           0.00            2.01               2.01
                                (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                          7.59              7.32           0.24             7.4              22.55
                                (7.59)             (7.32)         (0.24)           (0.00)           (15.15)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00           2.68             1.5               4.18
                                (0.00)             (0.00)         (2.68)           (0.00)           (2.68)
4. Other                          0.00              0.00           0.00            11.78             11.78
                                (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
Incremental operating             0.00              0.00           0.57            0.90               1.47
cost                            (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.57)           (0.00)           (0.00)
Total                             7.59              7.32           3.49            23.59             41.99
                                (7.59)             (7.32)         (3.49)           (0.00)           (18.40)




                                                      - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An economic rate of return was not calculated for this project at appraisal, nor was it calculated at closure.




                                                  - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/10/2000


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              5/12/2001


 Supervision
              June 2002                  12    Gillian Brown (incoming
                                               TTL)
                                               Bonaventure Mbida-Essama
                                               (outgoing TTL)
                                               Helen Brereton (Social
                                               Development Consultant)
                                               Omunuwmni Ladipo (Senior
                                               Financial Management
                                               Specialist)
                                               David Howarth
                                               (Procurement Specialist)
                                               Nipa Siribuddhamas
                                               (Financial Management)
                                               Peter Sainsbury (Institutions)
                                               Melissa Fossberg (External
                                               Relations)
                                               Prok Vanny (local
                                               consultant)
                                               Neb Sinthay (local
                                               consultant)
              08/04/2002 -                5    Gillian Brown (TTL)                  S               S
              8/6/2002                         Helen Brereton (Social
                                               Development Officer)
                                               Bou Saroeun (External Affairs
                                               Consultant)
                                               David Howarth (Procurement)
                                               Wijaya Wikrema and
                                               Omowunmi Ladipo (Financial
                                               Management and Disbursement)
              10/8/2002-10/22/20          8    Gillian Brown (TTL)                  S               S
              02                               Markus Kostner (Post Conflict
                                               Specialist)
                                               Susan Wong (Monitoring and
                                               Evaluation)
                                               Helen Brereton (Social
                                               Development Officer)
                                               Bou Saroeun (External Affairs
                                               Consultant)



                                                - 27 -

                                           Neb Sinthay (NGO participant)
                                           David Howarth (Procurement)
                                           Wijaya Wikrema and
                                           Omowunmi Ladipo (Financial
                                           Management and Disbursement)
               January 2003            4   Gillian Brown (TTL)                S    S
                                           Susan Wong (Monitoring and
                                           Evaluation)
                                           David Howarth (Procurement)
                                           Nipa Siribhudhamus

 ICR
                                      2     Gillian Brown (TTL)               U    U
                                            Dararith Kim-Yeat



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                57.24                       360,627
  Supervision                          45.39                       177,168
  ICR
  Total                              102.63                        537,796




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA


Objectives/Outputs      Highly         Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory Highly         Not
                        Satisfactory                                 Unsatisfactory Applicable
Data management and                           X
MIS
Demobilization                                X

Reintegration                                                 X

Project implementation,                                       X
TA and studies




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Supervision Missions Aide-Memoires

Supervision Mission Aide Memoire, June 2002

Supervision Mission Aide Memoire, August 2002

Supervision Mission Aide Memoire, October 2002

Summary of Supervision Mission Finding s and Joint Agreements between World Bank and the Council for the
Demobilization of Armed Forces, October 2002

Supplementary Supervision Mission Aide Memoire, January 2003

PSR

PSR on 25th June 2002

PSR on 10th January 2003

PSR on 31ST May 2003

PSR on 10th June 2003

PSR on 30th December 2003

PSR on 30th June 2004

PSR on 22nd December 2004

Legal Documents

Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Cambodia and the International Development
Association, Credit Number 3564-KH, October 11, 2001

Canadian Grant Agreement, Grant Number TF023948, August 15 2000

Netherlands Grant Agreement, Grant Number TF TF023949, August 15 2000

Swedish Grant Agreement, Grant Number TF023586, August 15 2000

Declaration of Effectiveness, July 1st 2002

Declaration of Suspension, September 9th 2004

Financial documents

Financial Monitoring Report Quarter Ended June 30, 2003 and up to January 31, 2005, General Secretariat,
Council for the Demobilization of Armed Forces

Project Financial Statements for the period covering 1 September 2001 to 31 January 2005, Price Waterhouse
Coopers




                                                       - 31 -

Bank systems

SAP: budget information




                           - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Comments from the Borrower

The following comments on the draft Implementation Completion Report were received from the Borrower.
The extent to which these comments have been taken into consideration in the final ICR are indicated by the
responses in brackets.



1.       ICR: Page 3, Paragraph 7 ...This policy and the role of the Royal Cambodian Armed Forces
not Royal Cambodian Arms Forces as written. Page 1 ­ Paragraph 8... The limitations of the mandate
of the World Bank meant that the second set of objectives related to military reform could not be
included. Excluding it, however, meant that an essential part of the overall picture was only superficially
considered.

         Comments: Firstly, the Military demobilization affair is part and parcel of military reform.
         Secondly, to deal with this military reform which is purely of military nature, the Royal
         Government of Cambodia (RGC) set up a different structure to deal with it namely the Council for
         Military Reform chaired by the Co-Ministers of National Defense with no representative from the
         civilian institutions. Thirdly, this military reform has been carried out not in the darkness, but on
         the contrary it has been done with the cooperation from friendly countries through their military
         attaches in Cambodia. A case in point is the drafting with the technical assistance and full
         cooperation from Australia of the White Paper on National Defense which is the basis for military
         reform. Fourthly, military affair is purely a matter of national security of each country.

         Consequently, the view of the World Bank to be part of this military reform and whose policy is
         only for development is not logical and irrational.

         (Response: Report edited to take these comments into account and/or provide further clarification)

2.       ICR: Page 5, Paragraph 4 ­ Second bullet... Dead Soldiers were not removed from the payroll
nor were soldiers who had voluntarily returned to civilian life. These soldiers, whose names appeared on
the list but were not drawing salaries, were known as "ghost soldiers"...

         Comments:
         Firstly, to call Dead Soldiers as Ghost Soldiers means that the World Bank not only does not
         understand the Cambodian legislation but also it is an insult on those dead soldiers who had
         sacrifices their lives for the sake of peace, security, stability and development in Cambodia. May I
         draw your attention to the following points:
         l According to the Government sub-decree, a soldier who had lost his or her life, his or her
             spouse is entitled to receive a pension amounting to 12 or 15 months of his or her latest
             salaries and this amount must be paid in one installment before his or her name can be
             transferred from the Ministry of National Defense to the Ministry of Social Welfare, Youth
             Rehabilitation and Ex-Combatants.
         l In the year 2000, the RGC had used its own limited financial resources to transfer 7,021
             spouses of dead soldiers to the Ministry of Social Welfare and consequently the names of these
             7,021 dead soldiers were immediately removed from the military payroll.
         l So far, due to the Government financial constraint, there are still more than 10,000 dead
             soldiers whose spouses continue to legally cash the monthly salaries of their loved ones who
             had lost their lives from the military payroll.



                                                       - 33 -

    Secondly, the same is to be said for the soldiers who had voluntarily returned to civilian. These
    soldiers, whose names appeared on the list but were not drawing salaries, were known as "ghost
    soldiers"...Please check also with the Ministry of National Defense and the High Command of
    the Royal Cambodian Armed Forces for further comments and clarifications because to the
    best of my knowledge, firstly the word "voluntary departure" has never been and will never be used
    in the military policy because firstly, when the country needs to carry out a military operation and
    the military personnel enjoys the rights to voluntarily leave the army, who will defend the country?
    Secondly, in the legislation setting up and defining the organization and functioning of the Ministry
    of National Defense as well as the General Discipline of the Army, there is no word mentioning
    about the voluntary departure.

    (Response: Report edited to take these comments into account and/or provide further clarification).

3.  Component 1: Preparation of Personnel Database and MIS
    ICR: The outputs of this component is rated as unsatisfactory because the World Bank combined
    mix issues among other things together, namely (i) accurate payroll list of RCAF Personnel
    Record, (ii) inflated numbers of soldiers, (iii) matter of national security to check and verify
    soldiers existed in the RCAF with the CDAF/GS database and (iv) concerns of integrity and of
    buying name on the lists for discharge by offering a portion of their demobilization packets to their
    commanders as raised by the civil society.

    Comment: Based on the facts and usefulness of the preparation and establishment of the RCAF
    Personnel Database and MIS as designed by the MIS specialist provided by the WB and according
    to the Staff Appraisal Report and Project Appraisal Documents for the implementation of the
    Cambodia Demobilization and Reintegration Project, the issues and concerns raised above were not
    the specific target as planned in the output indicators of SAR and PAD. From the practical point of
    view, this Component should be rated as satisfactory for the following reasons:
   l WB acknowledged itself that the computerized socio-economic information permitted the
        establishment of a good plan for effective and efficient demobilization.
   l Thanks to this MIS system in place, the very complex activities of re-registration,
        pre-discharge operations, discharge operations and the reintegration assistance were smoothly
        and timely designed, well implemented and achieved the satisfactory outcome.
   l Furthermore, the planning design for the monitoring and follow-up activities and other related
        components such as the provision of skill training and other necessary surveys were also
        benefited from this MIS.

    (Response: Comment taken into account and rating changed to satisfactory).

4.  Component 3: Reintegration
    ICR: The output of this reintegration component was qualified as unsatisfactory by the WB
    because the latter combined this component with the issue of misprocurement allegation that is an
    unrelated matter and the concerns were raised by linking the development project with politics with
    respect to the ceremonies to hand over the reintegration assistance packages (RAP) in the lead up
    to the 2003 election.

    Comment: In fact, the first reason is purely an unrelated issue because as per the PAD and DCA,
    the reintegration component was designed to answer to the objectives of reintegrating the veterans
    into the civilian life in the community of their choices through the provision of reintegration



                                                - 34 -

assistance packages to them. Furthermore, the main activities projected under this Component were
to coordinate and cooperate with involved stakeholders to provide other equipment and services
including the planned skills and vocational training to those demobilized veterans at the community
where they are settling. As a result, the provision of RAP and other services were provided to them
while the skills training has been also in the process of providing to them as per their choices.

         As for the second linkage to the lead up with the 2003 general election, it is also a
groundless and unsubstantiated reason. With respect to this, it is the strong desire of the RGC to
keep this development project out of the upcoming election year's politics through its decision to
use its own money in order to settle the outstanding payment of the motorcycle contract in the view
that if the Royal Government had further delayed the project, there would be one other consequence
­ this issue would be resolved in the context of a national political election campaign. This would
have posed hazards to the free and fair political environment as well as social stability ensured by
the Royal Government. The longer the delay of the program, the more politicians could attack the
Royal Government as not tending to the interests of its veterans. But if the motorcycles were to be
finally released at some time just prior to the elections, no doubt the Royal Government would be
attacked for "playing politics" with the demobilization benefits of veterans. The implication would
be that the Royal Government was engaged in buying votes. Thus, the Royal Government was
posed with a classic "lose-lose" scenario, where delay, regardless of the outcome of the World
Bank inquiry, would become a political issue.

         On the contrary, the WB showed the suspicious acts with respect to its declaration of
misprocurement a day before the beginning of the electoral propaganda campaign leading the
Government to question about the WB's intention to meddle and participate in the electoral
campaign as well as in the domestic politics of Cambodia.

         Furthermore, according to the point (ii) 7 under the outputs of this reintegration component
of the ICR which stated that "This is an ongoing activity supported by Japan through JICA
limited to Takeo and Kampong provinces" is not accurate. The reality is that the Pilot Skills
Training Project (STP) was undertaken in the above-mentioned two provinces in 2003. Based on
the successful implementation of the Pilot STP, the CDAF General Secretariat has been in the
process of actively providing different skills training to all remaining demobilized soldiers who
were discharged under the first full scale program. The Project is conducted at district levels with
the active and close cooperation among the CDAF/GS, the Executive Secretariat (ES) of the
Provincial Veterans Committee (PVC) and the local authorities of provinces (districts and
communes).

         In general, this reintegration component should be rated as satisfactory for the following
reasons:

l A lot of achievements were made by the Project with respect to the implementation of
    reintegration activities including the ongoing provision of skills and vocational training being
    provided to first full-scale 15,000 demobilized soldiers in 24 provinces as set forth in the ICR
    outputs of this component.
l It is more practical to take into account the nature of coordination work between the
    Implementation Agency (CDAF General Secretariat) among the involved stakeholders
    concerning the provisions of services to the demobilized soldiers rather than focusing on the
    achievement of numbers of soldiers that had been downsized so far.
l More importantly, the WB itself also acknowledged that the organization of the distribution



                                             - 35 -

           and handover of reintegration packages was performed smoothly and very efficiently and
           13,764 motorbikes were handed over in an orderly manner in a very short period of time in the
           24 provinces.

      (Response: Report edited to take comments into account and/or provide further clarification. Rating
      changed to "satisfactory" as misprocurement issue is considered in the "unsatisfactory" rating for
      Project Management component.)

5.    Component 4: Project Administration and Management

5.1   Interpretation of the Roles and Responsibilities of the Procurement and Financial
Management Consulting Firm:

              The last section of the ICR is fundamentally flawed. This is due, in large measure, to
              the confusion about the role of the firm hired for the Project. Therefore, before
              entering into a detailed response to the ICR, it is necessary to repeat several
              irrefutable facts:

i.    Development Credit Agreement ("DCA"): According to the DCA, entered into between the
Royal Government and the World Bank, Schedule 4, Section I (4) states that:
                       "The Borrower shall appoint, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
                       Schedule 3 to this Agreement and terms and conditions satisfactory to the
                       Association, and thereafter maintain at all times during the implementation of
                       the Project a procurement and financial management firm which shall be
                       responsible on behalf of the Borrower, procurement and financial management
                       matters under the Project including the Special Account, the Second Generation
                       Special Account and the Project Account."

ii.   Thales Contract: According to the contract between the Royal Government and the Consulting
Firm which was duly approved by the World Bank, Page 1, Paragraph 5 (b) of the Form of Contract states
that:
                       "The Consultants, having represented to the Client that they have the required
                       professional skills, and technical resources, have agreed to provide the services
                       on the terms and conditions set forth in this Contract."

iii.  Terms of Reference: On Page 31, Paragraph 2 of this document, it is stated that:
                       "The responsibility for efficient and speedy implementation of the program lied
                       with the GS, which is staffed with adequate number of personnel to carry out
                       various Program work. The Government is committed to maintain integrity and
                       transparency of the activities financed by the Program. To achieve these
                       objectives, the GS proposes to contract out the procurement and financial
                       management of the Program to an internationally recognized firm with
                       experience in project administration, procurement and financial management.
                       "

                       For the purpose of the discussion that follows, it is important to keep these clauses
                       in mind, for they have very real legal and operational implications for the
                       implementation of the project and the responsibilities of the respective parties
                       because one can apparently confuse since the name of the Thales firm has the



                                                 - 36 -

                         word "Consulting" in it, and the contract between the Royal Government and the
                         firm was entitled "Procurement and Financial Management Consultants'
                         Services." But the "Services" to be rendered were not "advisory and
                         assistance" services, as stated in the ICR. They were executive in nature,
                         managing and administering the financial and procurement matters of the
                         program.

                         (Response: Report edited to take these comments into account and/or provide further
                         clarification.)



6.      ICR: Page 11, Paragraph 1: "A Consulting Firm was contracted by the Government according
to the World Bank Guidelines to provide advisory and assistance services in relation to Financial
Management and Procurement Management."

        Comment: This statement in the ICR is absolutely not true. According to the DCA, as cited
        above, and other documents relevant to this Project, the Consulting Firm was to provide
        management and administrative services. The RGC was specifically relieved of these
        responsibilities as they were given to the contracting Firm so that it could act independently in the
        management and administration of other components of the project.

        The drafter of the ICR is to imply that the firm only provided advice is not only legally incorrect
        (according to all of the Project documents) but operationally incorrect as well. It implies that the
        firm only advised the Royal Government, and that the Royal Government was in charge of the
        management and administration of financial and procurement of the program. This allegation was
        never the case.

        By way of analogy, the World Bank representative in Phnom Penh at the time of the Project's
        inception was hired as a "consultant," yet he acted as an executive in performing managerial and
        administrative duties.

        (Response: Report edited to provide further clarification on responsibility of the Borrower.)

7.      ICR: Pages 11-12 (last sentence of page 11): "However, this decision (to debar firms and
individuals from future WB contracts) was not accepted by CDAF who considers that the procurement
and financial management was the full responsibility of the consulting firm they hired using the IDA
credit."

        Comment: This sentence is both confusing and misleading. The RGC neither accepted nor
        rejected the decision to declare misprocurement and debar firms and people. The World Bank
        conducted a unilateral investigation and the Royal Government was not privy to its methodology,
        factual findings, or conclusions. The Royal Government was therefore in no position to make a
        judgment about the World Bank's decisions or actions.

        However, it was not just the CDAF General Secretariat which considered that the procurement and
        financial management was the full responsibility of the firm..." Any fair reading of the many
        documents associated with this program, including those citations listed above, indicate that the
        Consulting Firm contractually and legally was fully responsible for procurement and financial
        management. The World Bank was not only aware of this relationship between the Royal



                                                     - 37 -

        Government and the firm in this regard, it insisted on it.

        Finally, the inclusion of the words that the Royal Government "hired" the firm "using IDA credit"
        implies it was a unilateral decision. On the contrary, the Consulting Firm was hired in accordance
        with the World Bank guidelines and with World Bank approval. This phrase appears to be an
        attempt to distance the Bank from the hiring and approval process which implication, of course, is
        not consistent with the facts in this case.

        (Response: Report edited to provide further clarification.)

8.      ICR: Page 12, Paragraph 7 "The Bank considered that withholding the information on the
declaration of misprocurement until after the elections would be perceived as a political move and
therefore tried to release the information as soon as possible. On the other hand, the government
perceived the Bank's concern to release the information as a political move, and resisted discussion on
the issue to reach a joint position. The information was finally disclosed, to no ones satisfaction, just one
month before the election."

        Comment: This statement contains false, misleading, and incomplete information. First, it is
        not true that the Royal Government "resisted discussion on the issue to reach a joint position." The
        Royal Government was still trying to discuss the issue when the Bank cut off discussion.

        The chronology of events concerning this matter is as follows:
       l On June 19, 2003, the World Bank presented the Royal Government with a draft press release
             during the meeting held on June 20, 2003 between Country Director for Cambodia and Senior
             Minister, Minister in charge of the Office of the Council of Ministers and Chairman of the
             Council for the Demobilization of Armed Forces. The draft press release stated that the Royal
             Government was fully responsible for mistakes of management and financial administration
             leading to the World Bank's declaration of misprocurement. For the reasons cited above, the
             Royal Government rejected the draft press release, reminding the Bank that the manner in
             which the program was set up precluded the Royal Government from managing and
             administering the financial and procurement matters of the program.
       l Following the result of the above-mentioned meeting, both parties agreed that the notification
             of the World Bank's declaration of misprocurement would occur in the form of a confidential
             letter Senior Minister, Minister of Economy and Finance. Furthermore, it was also agreed that
             Legal Advisor to the Royal Government of Cambodia who was at the meeting, will work with
             a World Bank Lawyer on the text of a joint press release that would be mutually acceptable as
             the initial draft was clearly unacceptable to the Royal Government.
       l After the meeting, [Legal Advisor] sent an e-mail to Chief Counsel, East Asia and Pacific
             Region, Legal Department and also copied to [Country Director] requesting clarification on
             the right, obligation and legal prerogatives of the Royal Government of Cambodia under the
             legal agreement with IDA Credit No. 3564-KH for the Demobilization and Reintegration
             Project, by attaching a proposed Joint Press Release. On June 24, 2003, [Legal Counsel]
             acknowledged the receipt of the above e-mail and informed that he will review carefully the
             letter and come back to [Legal Advisor] at the soonest. In fact, no response was provided to
             him.

        (Response: Email sent on June 25th with details and clarification requested, and receipt acknowledged
        on 26th June 2003.)




                                                     - 38 -

       l Unfortunately, the World Bank subsequently breached the above-agreed principles and no later
            than July 3, 2003, a World Bank official gave an interview to the Phnom Penh Post in which
            the misprocurement was declared. With respect to this, the World Bank confirmed that the "the
            leak did not come from the WB's offices or staff". This assertion strains credulity, but the
            newspapers article clearly and unequivocally identifies a World Bank "spokesman outside the
            country" of Cambodia as the source of the quotes. In an apparent to distance the World Bank
            from the public pronouncement, the WB letter dated July 04, 2003 stated that the World Bank
            "feared such a leak" that such a "leak" might happen. In reality, the "leak" accomplished this
            objective, and therefore the World Bank had the excuse to issue a unilateral press release to
            confirm the press report.

       (Response: The Bank was approached by the press to comment on rumors originating from outside of the
       Bank. These rumors were based on misinformation and extremely damaging to the government, and were
       about to be published in national and international press. The Bank released a brief statement, including
       quotes to be used, in order to establish the true facts of the case and mitigate damage. )

       l It is also important to note that, at the time the World Bank spokesman gave the interview to
            the Phnom Penh Post, the confidential letter declaring misprocurement had not been delivered
            to the Royal Government. This not only breached the understanding that both parties reached
            on June 20, 2003, but apparently also is in violation of the World Bank's own guidelines for
            the declaration of misprocurement. (Please see the World Bank Operational Manual OP 11.00,
            "Bank Procedures: Procurement dated July 27, 2001")

       (Response: Scanned copy of the letter declaring misprocurement delivered to Borrower on 27th June
       2003, and original sent to government on same day.)

                Thus, it is not true that the Royal Government "resisted discussion on the issue to reach a
                joint position." The Royal Government was engaged in discussion when the leak occurred,
                the Bank stopped the dialogue, and ultimately issued a press release.

       (Response: Report edited to provide further clarification.)

                Furthermore, while it is true that the declaration of misprocurement was made one month
                before the election, this statement in the ICR understates the political nature of the timing
                of the release. The information was made public virtually on the eve of the start of the
                political campaign period.

9.     ICR: Page 15, Paragraph 6 "However, the Bank's concern to "ring-fence" the project financial
management and procurement appears to have resulted in the Government understanding that the
consultant had full responsibility in these matters. Legal responsibility for the financial management
always lies with the Borrower, and this confusion regarding the lines of responsibility lead to significant
problems in the relationship between the Bank and the Government later."

       Comment: This section has the same problems as previously discussed ­ there is a confusion
       between the word "consultant" and the real responsibilities as dictated by the DCA, the firm's
       contract, and other project documents. The ICR might as well call the firm the "manager" or the
       "administrator," since these words accurately convey its duties and responsibilities. While it is true
       that the Royal Government was legally obligated to reimburse project funding in the case of a
       declaration of misprocurement, this is very different than having project financial management
       responsibilities ­ duties concerning which the Royal Government was precluded.


                                                      - 39 -

        (Response: Report edited to provide further clarification)

10.     ICR: Page 17, Paragraph 8 "According to the General Secretariat of CDAF the issues leading
to misprocurement arose because they relied too much on information and documents to them by the
Procurement consultant and the winning bidder. The Government holds all legal responsibilities stated
in the DCA and cannot delegate these however, there were misunderstandings regarding the role of the
consultants in taking on such responsibility which could have been clarified earlier."

        Comment: This statement is false and misleading. Again, the repeated use of the word
        "consultant" only confuses this issue and helps cloud the fact that the firm acted in an executive
        capacity. Furthermore, the project was set up in such a way so as to ensure that the Royal
        Government had delegated its financial and procurement management's responsibilities to the firm.

        (Response: Report edited to provide further clarification)

11.     ICR: Page 19, Paragraph 14 "Legal agreements and Terms of Reference for consultants need to
be carefully reviewed to ensure that there is no doubt as to the level of responsibility delegated to the
consultants. The consultants are advisors to the Government and cannot, under any circumstance, take
on the borrower responsibilities for meeting the legal conditions."

        Comment: Again, this statement is contradicted by many documents associated with this
        Project. Please refer to the citations above.

        (Response: Report edited to take comment into account)

        5.2 Issue of Late Provision of Financial Monitoring and Auditing Reports:

12.     ICR: Page 11, Paragraph 4 & 5:
        Concerning the late provision of financial monitoring and auditing reports under he implementation
        of the Demobilization and Reintegration Project to be prepared and delivered to the World Bank,
        the CDAF General Secretariat has, at that time, no problem to move the process forward.
        However, the question is that how to secure the cooperation of the Consulting Firm, which is
        legitimately responsible for the Project procurement and financial management matters to prepare
        the report and defend and audit since its contract was also suspended in mid 2003 because of
        misprocurement allegations.

        With respect to the above-mentioned issues, the World Bank requested us to consider using the
        services of a financial management specialist working on another IDA financed project to help
        produce the Financial Management Report. Taking this opportunity, I would like to bring to your
        kind attention two important points for the further consideration:

(i)     On Legal Aspect of the Responsible Entity:
                First of all, I feel obliged to remind you that [the consulting firm], being an independent
        firm, was recruited under the Project in accordance with the World Bank guidelines, specifically
        detailed in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and duly approved by the Bank with the
        clear role and in the capacity of the only acceptable Project financial managers. The DCA
        required the hiring of "a procurement and financial management firm, which shall be
        responsible for managing, on behalf of the Borrower, the procurement and financial



                                                     - 40 -

     management matters under the Project..." Hence, [the consulting firm] contractually assumed
     the full responsibility for the financial and procurement management of the Project including
     financial reporting functions.

               As per our understanding, neither the Royal Government nor any other entity or individual
      can fully assume such a role or prerogative under the existing legal arrangements laid down in the
      DCA and other documentation relevant for the Project implementation. More importantly, the lack
      of capacity and experience of the Project's Government staff in all aspects of financial
      management as well as reporting acceptable to the IDA on the Project was in fact pointed out on
      numerous occasions by the World Bank's Project management specialists, who highlighted the fact
      that the Government staff on the Project were never supposed to do this. More importantly, it was
      still bearing in mind that during the Sun System's Managing Director provided the software
      training to the teams of the Consulting Firm and during which some staff of the CDAF General
      Secretariat were also present at the training course, but they were informed by the WB Senior
      Financial Management Specialist to go out of the training room because the latter told them "it was
      not your business to learn it".

               Regarding the advice to "consider using the services of a financial management specialist
      working on another IDA financed project to help produce the Financial Management Report"
      apparently would lead us to seeking consulting services, which were not included in the existing
      Project terms.

               In addition, at that time, all Project documentation archives of both management teams
      were locked and sealed in their former workplace at the compound of the Office of the Council of
      Ministers. The problem is this: how was it possible in a practical sense to find acceptable grounds
      for arranging a legitimate access to those documents by any other party without the
      acknowledgement and active participation of the Project's Financial Management Consulting
      Firm? This is important to consider in order to secure the appropriate financial monitoring report
      on the Project status to be furnished to the IDA, as requested.

(ii) On Provision of Project Financial Monitoring Report:
               Another important point to note is that, due to the insistence of the WorldBank, the
     existing Project set-up calls for a mandatory financial reporting not in the form of normal
     Financial Management Report, but rather in the most advanced format of Financial
     Monitoring Report established by the Bank. In other words, the Project find disbursement was
      to be made on the basis of the completed activities of the Project components through the provision
      of the Quarterly Procurement and Financial Monitoring Reports acceptable to the IDA, not based
      on the standardized Application for Withdrawals as being currently done by other WB financed
      projects.

               In this regard, it is essential to bear in mind, that the prerequisite to the Credit effectiveness
      and the overall functioning of the Project, the World Bank had ordered that the compilation of
      the Project Management Report be based on the automated financial management software
      system acceptable to the IDA. Actually, it was the SUN SYSTEMS package approved by the
      Bank and installed on the computers formerly operated by the financial management [the
      consulting firm]. I would like to inform you that the aforementioned computerized database and
      Project management SUN SYSTEMS software was stalled at that time due to the lack of routine
      usage by its [the consulting firm] operators and proper maintenance, which supposed to be



                                                     - 41 -

       extended under the annual maintenance agreement with the software provider. These Project
       features were disrupted for a considerable duration of time following the latest developments that
       effectively block the Project's operations including those activities under the responsibility of the
       [the consulting firm] financial management team in keeping the SUN SYSTEMS functional.

                In our point of view, it was practical to arrange for [the consulting firm] participation
       limited to their Chief Financial Management Officer, in preparation of the Project Financial
       Monitoring Report requested by the IDA. In making this proposal, the involvement of this
       specialist would be deemed necessary in any case in order to provide the facilitation that might be
       required for the purpose of independent audit report.

                Last but not least, I would like to emphasize that the Royal Government had no
       reservations in respect of an independent audit report conditional to the appropriate settlement of
       the above referenced matters in abiding by the original Project terms.

       (Response: Report amended to provide additional clarification where necessary.)

       5.3 Issue of Misprocurement Allegation by the World Bank's Unilateral Decision:

13.    ICR: Page 11, Paragraph 8: "Only the bidding (ICB No. CDRP/ICB/RAP/L5) for the supply of
13,764 motorcycles amounting to $6.7 million was problematic..."

       Comment: The actual contract value for the supply of 13,764 motorcycles was amounted to US$
       6,930.174. With respect to the World Bank's unilateral decision declaring the misprocurement
       under this Contract and with a view to put the record straight and to avoid any misleading to the
       public, the CDAF General Secretariat is obliged to provide the full aspects of all related process
       and factors concerning the surrounding issue of misprocurement declared unilaterally by the World
       Bank dated July 04, 2003 as enclosed herewith in the Attachment 2.

       (Response: Attachment not included due to space limitations but is available from the CDAF Secretariat
       at the council of Ministers. Fax No: (855) 23 880 625, Telephone: (855) 12 927 966.)




                                                    - 42 -

Additional Annex 9. Press Release announcing Sanctions


Cambodia: World Bank Sanctions Thales Engineering and Consulting S.A.
and others in Demobilization Project

Washington, November --, 2004 The World Bank announced the debarment of five individuals
and four firms for fraudulent practices in relation to the World Bank-financed "Cambodia
Demobilization and Reintegration Project" (CDRP) in Cambodia. These firms and individuals will
be ineligible to receive any new World Bank-financed contracts for the periods of their
debarments.

These actions are part of the World Bank's broad anticorruption efforts initiated by President
James Wolfensohn in 1996. More information on the World Bank's overall anticorruption
policies and activities can be found at http://www.worldbank.org/anticorruption.

World Bank Country Director Ian Porter commented that he was pleased the actions had been
taken. "The World Bank lends money to help the Government better deliver needed services to
the people and improve people's lives. Effective and efficient use of the resources relies on an
open, transparent, competitive bidding process. Fraudulent practices hurt the poor the most. All
of us ­ government, donors, civil society, media, and the private sector ­ need to work together in
the fight against fraud and corruption and ensure that the Cambodian people get the maximum
benefits from development programs."

Following an investigation of certain procurement irregularities concerning a World
Bank-financed US$6.9 million contract for the supply and maintenance of motorcycles, the World
Bank declared misprocurement on the contract on June 26, 2003. Disbursements on the project
were suspended on November 1, 2004 and the Bank is awaiting repayment of US$2.7 million,
financial management reports, and an independent audit report. The project is due to close on
December 31, 2004.

The World Bank investigation was handled by the World Bank's Department of Institutional
Integrity (INT) and involved the collection and analysis of documents as well as the interviewing
of many witnesses in both Cambodia and France. The World Bank's Sanctions Committee issued
notices of debarment to firms and individuals allegedly involved in fraudulent practices under the
project. All of the firms and individuals were granted the opportunity to dispute the charges. The
debarment decisions were based on a preponderance of the evidence that the respondents engaged
in fraudulent practices during the procurement and/or implementation process. Under the World
Bank procurement guidelines, fraudulent practice is defined as a "misrepresentation of facts in
order to influence a procurement process or the execution of a contract to the detriment of the
Borrower." Thales Engineering and Consulting S.A. (THEC), who were hired by the Cambodian
Government to oversee the procurement and financial management process, were debarred on the
basis of multiple misrepresentations of facts by Jeremy Purce, procurement expert working for
THEC under an individual subcontracting agreement. Reliance upon these misrepresentations of
fact led to an inappropriate contract award to the winning bidder.



                                                 - 43 -

The period of debarment varied between one year for THEC, to five years for the individual who
repeatedly made misrepresentations of fact to the World Bank regarding the capacity of the
winning bidder.

The purpose of Cambodia Demobilization and Reintegration Project was to assist Cambodia in its military
demobilization efforts of 30,000 soldiers, aid in former soldiers adapting to civilian life, and contribute to
the reallocation of budget resources to the social sectors. In order to assist in the implementation of the
CDRP, which was funded by an IDA Credit (No. 3564), THEC was hired by the Cambodian Government
to oversee the procurement and financial management aspects of the project for a two-year period.

List of Debarred Firms and Individuals

The individual listed below is debarred under the grounds of Consultant Guidelines 1.25(a)(ii).
His ineligibility period is for five years from November 5, 2004 to November 5, 2009:

Jeremy Purce of Paris, France

The firm and individual listed below have been debarred under the grounds of the Consultant
Guidelines 1.25(a)(ii). Their ineligibility period is for three years from November 5, 2004 to
November 5, 2007.

SPLJ Group of Phnom Penh, Cambodia
Mr. Sok Polen of Phnom Penh, Cambodia

The firms and individuals listed below have been debarred under the grounds of the Procurement
Guidelines 1.15(a)(ii). Their ineligibility period is for three years (subject to possible earlier
release) from November 5, 2004 to November 5, 2007.

Jiangmen Zhongyu Motor Group Co. Ltd of Jiangmen City, People's Republic of China
Mr. Leikoc Lon Trevor of Jiangmen City, People's Republic of China
Mr. Lin Yaoming of Jiangmen City, People's Republic of China
Cambodia Royal Auto Manufacturing Co. Ltd. of Phnom Penh, Cambodia
Mr. Wu Jinbo of Phnom Penh, Cambodia

The firm listed below has been debarred under the grounds of the Consultant Guidelines
1.25(a)(ii). Its ineligibility period is for one year from November 5, 2004 to November 5, 2005.

Thales Engineering and Consulting S.A. of Rungis, France


Background Information

World Bank funds are provided to help developing countries reduce poverty. The World Bank has
the responsibility to ensure that the loans and credits it extends, and the trust funds that it
administers, are used for their intended purposes. This policy is enforced through a comprehensive



                                                     - 44 -

array of rules and procedures aimed at ensuring high standards of integrity, transparency, and
accountability in World Bank-supported projects. The procurement procedures for World
Bank-financed projects are monitored by World Bank staff to ensure that the process is free from
fraudulent practices and corruption.

The World Bank Department of Institutional Integrity (INT) is charged with investigating
allegations of fraud and corruption in World Bank-financed projects. The department reports
directly to the President of the World Bank and is staffed by a multinational team of more than
forty professionals, including investigators, legal specialists, forensic accountants, procurement
specialists and experienced World Bank project managers. Additional information can be found at
http://www.worldbank.org/integrity.

Allegations of fraud and corruption related to World Bank-financed projects can be reported to
1-800-831-0463 24 hours a day and an international AT&T operator with international translation
is available. To reverse charges (collect calls) dial 704-556-7046. Reports may be anonymous,
and can also be made in person or online at: investigations_hotline@worldbank.org

The sanctions process is an internal administrative process within the World Bank. It provides for
due process to all parties involved in the sanctions process. For more information on
procurement and sanctions, see: http://www.worldbank.org/procure

For more information on the World Bank's anticorruption policies and activities, see:
http://www.worldbank.org/anticorruption




                                                 - 45 -

- 46 -

