(t   /(   xC_ g      .    2  ,// v
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROP'ICHE COPY
Report No.:10974-IN           Type: (SAP)                 ReportNo. 10974-IN
Title:   BIHAR PLATEAU DEVELOPMENT PROJ
Author: MUKAMI, G
Rxt. :81440 Poom:F10009 Dept. :SA2AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
BIHAR PLATEAU DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OCTOBER 28, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US$ I = Rupees (Rs) 26.00
FISCAL YEAR
GOI, State - April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DOA          Department of Agriculture
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOB          Government of Bihar
GOI          Government of India
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
NGO          Non Government Organization
NPW          Net Present Worth
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
M            Million
MID          Minor Irrigation Department
MTR          Mid-Term Review
PHED         Public Health Engineering Department
RDC          Regional Development Commissioner
REO          Rural Engineering Organization
SCD          Soil Conservation Department
TSP          Tribal Sub-plan
WHT          Water Harvesting Tanks
GLOSSARY
KHARIF       Monsoon season
RABI         Drier, winter season
The report is based on the findings of IBRD/IDA Appraisal mission which
visited the project area May/June 1992. The mission consisted of Messrs. G.
Mukami (Task manager), W. Nickel, A. Venkataraman, T. Sampath, J. Malhotra
(Bank), and A. Salam, K. Shah, J. Marshall and N. Merani (Consultants).
Assistance was also provided by Messrs./Mmes. A. Cittati (Rural Roads), K.
Kleiner (Rural Water Supply), and by Peer Reviewers; M. Baxter, A. Molnar and
C. Antholt. The report is endorsed by Mr. H. Vergin (Director) and Mr. S.
Barghouti (Division Chief).



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BIHAR PL-ATR-AU DI!. QPNKNT PROJECT~~1
T'able of Conteants
FCrTDV AND PROJUCT SUMMARY
.. 2C.0J                                                                       1
Agriculture and Forestry in the N^tional Economy                       .   1
Dovelopment Priorities                        1. 
The Tribal People                                                    1. 
Features of the Tribal Area in Bihar   .                                    2
World Bank Support                                                     .   6
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement   .                                  7
II.   EFn39U Z3Q    . . .  .  .  .  .  .        ..........    ... .... . . .  .   8
Rationale for Bank Involvement   .                                          8
Project Area                                                                8
Project Objectives and Description..                                        8
Detailed Features..                                                         9
Project Costs and Financing             ..10
Procurement                  ..12
Disbursement                 ..13
Retroactive Financing and Special Account        ..14
III. PRB, Qu... .14
Planning Procedure.                                                        17
Monitoring and Evaluation  ... .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  18
Budgeting  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   18
Implementation ................... . 19
Reporting, Mid-Term Review and Project Completion Report                   22
Environmental Impact .22
Project Benefits and Justification   .................   23
Impact on Women ..................  24
Cost Recovery .24
Economic Analysis .                                                        25
IV. AGR1 AND RK O.                                                               27
AM=
ANNF  1:    Project Costs;
Table 1:  Sumiary Accounts by Year
Table 2:  Project Components by Year
Table 3:  Sumary Accounts Cost Susary
Table 4:  Suwmary Account by Project Component
Tablo 5:  Project Cost Summary
ANNEX       Schedule of Disbursements
hZiiI: 3    Roads:
(i)       Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for Contract
Supervision
(ii)      Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for Planning
and Detailed Engineering
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(iii)     Training Program
(iv)      Roads' Selection Criteria
ain.x 4s    Minor Irrigation:
(i)       Guidelines for Formulating Gravity Irrigation Schemes
(ii)      Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
(iii)     Training Program
i3j3..S:   Financial and Economic Analyses
Table 1:  Land Holdings
Table 2:  Form Model-0.4 ha
Table 3:  Farm Model-1.0 ha
Table 4:  Farm Model-18 ha
Table 5: Incremental Production and Employment
Table 6:  Import Parity Prices
Table 7:  Financial and Economic Farmgate Prices-Inputs
Table 8:  Financial and Economic Farmgate Prices-Outputs
Table 9:  Economic Cashflow Analysis
Table 10: Cropping Intensity-Minor Irrigation Schemes-15,000 ha
Table 11: Cropping Intensity-Panchayat Schemes-1,500 ha
Table 12: Cropping Intensity-Water Harvesting Tanks-3,500 ha
Table 13: Cropping Pattern-Dugwell-l ha model
Table 14: Crop Budget-Upland Paddy
Table 15: Crop Budget-Midland Paddy
Table 16: Crop Budget-Maize
Table 17: CRop Budget-Finger Millet
Table 18: Crop Budget-Wheat
Table 19: Crop Budget-Mustard
Table 20: Crop Budget-Vegetables: cauliflower/capsicum/cucumber
Table 21: Crop Budget-Vegetables: peas/french beans/bhindi
Table 22: Crop Budget-Vegetables: eggplant/carrot
Table 23: Crop Budget-Potato
Table 24: Calculation of Rural Roads Benefits
Table 25: Crop Budget-Rainfed Upland Paddy
Table 26: Crop Budget-Rainfed Midland Paddy
Table 27: Crop Budget-Rainfed Finger Millet
Table 28: Crop Budget-Rainfed Maize
Table 29: Crop Budget-Rainfed Pigeon pea
Table 30: Crop Budget-Citrus
Table 31: Crop Budget-Mango
Table 32: Crop Budget-Guava
Table 33: Afforestation Model-Non-Arable land
Table 34: Silvipasture Model-Arable land
Table 35: Farm Forestry Model
AvonCE: 6s  Environment:
(i)       Environment and Social Aspects
(ii)      Policy Frame work for Selection of Irrigation Schemes
(iii)     Guidelines for Preparation of Irrigation and Road plans
(iv)      Terms of Reference for Environmentalist
(v)       Training Requirement
ANNEX7:    Non-Government Organizations (NGO):
(i)       Mechanism to Facilitate NOO Involvement
(ii)      Terms of Reference for Sociologist/Anthropologist
(iii)     Terms of Reference for NOO Cell



ANN=-Al   Cost and Benefit Sharingnr-w5t-rnbd t
1L1u2u:    Supervision Plan
jJj:    Document Available in the Project File
Charts:     I.         Road  Iplementation Schedule
II.       Organization Diagram
Map:                   IBRD 23743



URRPL  =A REOPE~TPOEQT
,TAFF APPRATaAL REPORT 
orrowz r:                India, Acting by its President
RXedlIt<inp AteneDica    Government of Bihar: Minor Irrigation Department,
Department of Agriculture, Birsa Agricultural
University, Rural Engineering Organization, Public
Health Engineering Department and the Regional
Development Commissioner's Office.
Amount:                  IDA Credit SDR 80.7 mil. (US$ 117.0 mil. equivalent)
IDA:  Standard, with 35 years maturity
2D=LMn         ToLrms:   GOI would make the proceeds of credit available to the
Government of Bihar under its prevailing terms and
conditions. 001 would assume the foreign exchange
risk.
Prloset D--erintion:    The project is designed to help GOB in its efforts to
increase rural incomes and reduce the incidence of
poverty in the underdeveloped plateau area of southern
Bihar State. This would be achieved by: (a) making
investments in critical areas of infrastructure needed
for improved delivery of agricultural services for
increasing production and easing marketing problems,
(b) strengthening the planning, coordination and
monitoring functioning of the tribal area
administration, (c) introducing a participatory and
integrated approach to planning and implementation of
multi-sectoral activities, and (d) supporting
environmentally sustainable activities.
>ldUia                   The weak management of government departments and poor
budgetary support, which have been common features of
Dank-assisted projects in Bihar, pose a risk to
implementation of the proposed project. To minimize
this risk, the project is designed to be implemented,
managed, and maintained with reduced government
involvement.  To bring about project "ownership  by
the people, user groups would be involved actively in
project planning, implementation, evaluation and
maintenance activities. Before proposals go forward,
they would have to be approved by beneficiaries.
Other mitigatory measures include: the advanced state
of preparation of the project, a mid-term review, and
an extensive monitoring and feedback system built into



-ii-
the project. With C00  support, and with built-in
safeguards for sustaining operations, the project has
a good chance of succeeding.
-   Local           Foreign          Total
----------(US$ million)  -----------
Agricultural Developmnt        5.7              0.4              6.1
Minor Irrigation              30.0              5.4             35.4
Rural Roads                   44.8              9.9             54.7
Drinking Water                12.5              0.7             13.2
Project Implementation         1.7              0.0              1.7
Total Base, Cost              j4Z 7                            111.1
Physical Contingencies         9.2              1.7            10.9
Price Contingencies            8.6              1.6            10.2
Total Project Costs 1/       lL_5              L2-a.          122.2
Financing Plan               Local            Foreign          Total
--------------(USS million) -----------
Government of Bihar/          15.2              0.0           15.2
Beneficiaries
IDA                           97.3             19.7          117.0
Total                        112.5             19 7L22
K*_ituCind  Dn                      Fl Fu E9 Eu 7 E=                  9E
(US$ million)
Annual                        5.0   11.0    13.0  28.0      33.0   27.0
Cumulative                    5.0   16.0    29.0  57.0      90.0  117.0
Economic Rate of Return:  17%
1/ including taxes and duties of USS 2.7 million



lnrieuThur. ad Forestry in tbh kIinal !aonrM
1.1  India's GDP grew at about 3% per annum in the 1950s and 1960s,
accelerating to 4.5 in the 1980s due to rapid growth in manufacturing and
services. bgzJiaurxl growth has averaged 2.6% per annum over tho last two
decades, slightly abov the population growth rate of 2.1%. Despite
comparatively modest growth, agriculture remains important to the Indian
economy. Though its share of th* GDP is only about 33%. a large part of
India's population of 850 million is dependent on the sector. About 75% of
India's people live in rural areas, and about 64% are directly employed in
agriculture. For&ta are the main source of household energy in India and
they conserve water and protect soils from degradation. Although the
contribution of forestry to GNP is often stated as leos than 2%, it excludes
non-market and external benefits and the large amount of harvested forest
products which are difficult to quantify.
Develoamont Prioriti--
1.2 Development plans of the Oovernment of India (GO0) and state governments
give priority to alleviating poverty and creating employment, especially in
rural areas. The primary determinant of rural incomes, especially for the
poor, is the performance of the agricultural sector. Since independence, GO0
has sought to raise food grain production by increasing the use of
fertilizers, plant protection chemicals, and improved seed varieties. It has
also developed support services--agricultural extension and research, seed
production, and agricultural credit for the improvement of the sector.
Despite these efforts, the annual growth rate in food grain production over
the last 20 years has only averaged 2.7%; though grain production declined
marginally in 1991/92. Watershed management and environmental protection have
also become key GO priorities in recent years.
1.3 High population densities and limited land supplies mean that future
growth must depend largely on intensifying production on both irrigated and
rain-fed land, from crop diversification, and from increased efficiency. Thus
GOIs long term focus has shifted to stimulating agricultural growth and
ensuring sustainable development, natural resource conservation, environmental
protection, and further strengthening of public agricultural support services.
The Tribal P9OD1.
1.4 The tribal people comprise 7.5% of the country's population, live
primarily in less developed areas, and participate little in economic
development. They have achieved low rate literacy and employ primitive
technology. To improve their lot, 00! and State governments are committed to
improve their economic condition by special programs and investments. As a
start, over the past three five-year Development Plan Periods, the governments
have implemented programs directed specifically to the needs of the tribal
people.
1.5  Because of implementation problms in the previous plans, a working
group was established to examine issues related to Scheduled Tribes and Castes
under the Eighth Five Year Plan. The working group concluded that the tribal
assistance strategy and special pzograms for the tribal areas called the
"Tribal Sub-plan" (TSP), mphasized quantitative investments rather than



-2-
quality achievements, and that little attention had been given to the felt
needs" of the tribal people. As a result, iL astments in the tribal area
achieved little impact. The overall approach to the development of the tribal
area was dominated by delivering ww'fare services, opposed to stimulating
sustainable production. This is reflected in the extensive and often
debilitating use of subsidies, which has led to unsustainable productive
activities when the initial support ends.
1.6  To redress the situation, both GOI and the Government of Bihar (GOB) in
the Eighth Plan have modified and prepared broad *felt need objectives
designed specially for the development of the tribal areas, which includes (a)
creation of employment; (b) decentralization of planning, securing involvement
of the people, and strengthening tlih village administration through panchayats
and involving voluntary agencies; (c) increased investment in rural areas; (d)
self-sufficiency in food grains production; (e) reducing poverty, and
improving education, health, nutrition and other social amenities of the
weaker sections; (f) infrastructure development, such as irrigation and
comuunications; and (g) efficiency in government expenditure. The aim is to
achieve these broad objectives vtithout upsetting the ethnic identity of the
tribal people. It is estimated the development program for the tribal people
in India would require about US$ 2 billion to implement in the next five
years.
Fatures of the Tribal Area in Bihar
1.7  The area includes the southern plateau of the State with the highest
concentration of the tribal population (more than 50% are tribal people) in
two regions of Chotanagpur and Santhal Parganas (see map). They comprise
about 90% of the total tribal population in the State. The area is
characterized by the following features:
1.8  Climato and Soils.  The area has a tropical monsoon climate with three
distinct seasons, namely kharif or wet season (June-October) which receives
about 90% of the annual rainfall of 1200-1400 mm, followed by zabi or dry
season (November-February) with only about 5% of the precipitation, and the
hot season between March and May. The upland soils are generally light red
with varying degrees of sand, loam and clay; and have low levels of plant
nutrients and drain easily. However, soils of the low lying lands and valleys
are much heavier in texture and more fertile.
1.9 Water Resourcen. South Chotanagpur is drained by three major river
systeme from west to east (the Sankh, the Koel-Karo and the Subernarekha).
The rivers and many tributaries are perennial flowing throughout the year, but
at greatly reduced rates during the summer months. Santhal Parganas is
drained by a number of small rivers, the main ones being the Ajay and
Bansalod, which are part of the Ganges drainage. The area is characterized
mainly by hard rock aquifers, but in some places there are thin alluvial
aquifers as well, and local percolation is a common source of wazer for
shallow wells.
1.10 T-ndUlma. About 30S of the total area or 1.6 million hectares is
cultivated, and 50% is forest and wastelands. The remainder is permanent
pasture. Of the cultivable land only about 8% is irrigated. About 90% of the
area is medium land and highland and 10% low land in the valley. Minerals are



-3-
abundant throughout the area. Theme include some of the largest deposits of
coal and iron ore in India, which were the foundation of the steel industry in
Jamshedpur, an well as bauxite, copper, chromium and manganese.
1.11  gz±tiltur. About 90% of the people in the tribal area are engaged in
agriculture, but unlike in other areas, there is little shifting cultivation.
Almost 60% of holdings are les than 1 ha and the remainder averages 1.8 ha.
Most of the cultivable area is cropped in kharif with about 90% cropping
intensity leaving about 26% for rabi and sumw*r. Rice, wheat and oilseeds are
grown primarily on the low and medium lands. On the upland, maize and pulses
aro cultivated. Vegetables are grown intensively on household plots for
domstic use, though some vegetables including potatoes, cauliflower, carrots,
chilies, okra and eggplant are commercially produced under irrigated
conditions. A wide variety of fruit trees including mango, papaya and litchi,
are also grown on house plots. Although improved seed is availabl, for
lowland rice, local varieties are preferred for their particular taste.
However, there is no improved seed for other crops suited for medium and high
land areas. Little fertilizer is applied (less than 20 kg/ha), which is about
one-third of the state average. Negligible amounts of other agro-chemicals are
used. Because of the low level of technology employed in farming, yields are
generally low except for maize and wheat. For rice, overall average yields
are 0.8 MT/ha, and about 1.5 MT/ha for irrigated areas.
1.12 Cattle (4.4 million) and buffalo (2.6 million) are raised for draft
power and milk. Small ruminants (3.7 million), pigs (0.5 million) and poultry
(5.4 million) are an important source of cash income, especially for women.
Almost all animals are of indigenous breed, with little genetic potential, but
adapted to the relatively harsh environment. Livestock are grazed in the
higher slopes of the upland areas and, after paddy harvest, they are allowed
to range freely. Fishing is also coumon in the area due to several small dams
and tanks.
1.13 In general, small farmers supplement their income through wage labor and
selling forest produce. Off-farm employment for men is common and includes
supplying labor to larger land owners, as well as migrating to work elsewhere
after the harvest. Although some work in the local mines and industries, most
of the tribal people prefer agricultural work in more developed states such as
Punjab and Haryana, and are efficient laborers in the brick-making kilns in
Calcutta.
1.14  Ifrastructure. The infrastructure base of Bihar is poor, and more so in
the tribal area. The road density is less than 6 km per 100 km2 in
Chotanagpur and 10 km in Santhal Parganas, compared with 21 km in the State
and 46 km nationally. Only about 40% of villages are connected to a road.
The national and state highways are in a poor state of maintenance. In
particular, the road from Bombay to Calcutta which passes through the tribal
area is degraded because of the high volume of traffic and poor maintenance.
Rural access roads have been constructed under the various employment-
generation schemes, but because of poor design, construction and maintenance
many rural areas remain inaccessible, particularly during the rains.
1.15 There is a severe shortage of electricity supply in the State. Most of
the electricity is generated by hydropower and old thermal (coal-fired) plants
which are unreliable and operate at low levels of efficiency. Power supply is



distributed on a rotational basis in the State, with preference to urban and
industrial users, and most rural areas obtain no power at all, even though
they are connected to the State grid. Current tariffs are Re. 0.35/kwh (US$
0.012) for agricultural users and about five times that level for industrial
users.
1.16 There ar- about 770 lift irrigation and 240 medium reservoir schemes in
th. tribal area, designed for *upplementary irrigation of 71,000 ha in kharif,
29,000 ha full irrigation in rabi, and 2,000 ha during the mumer season.
There are about 60-70,000 shallow hand-dug percolation wells (up to 40 ft deep
by 10-20 ft diameter), with the capacity to irrigate some 25,000 ha. The 8S
of cultivated area said to be irrigated, appears to be an over-estimate, since
most of these are lift irrigation schemes dependent on unreliable electricity
supplies (para 1.16). Many other schemes are also not operational because of
poor design and lack of maintenance such as do-silting. The absence of
maintenance is due in part to inadequate resources allocated to the Minor
Irrigation Department, which spends only 5 of its budget on maintenance. The
wells, costing up to Re. 20,000 (US$ 770 equivalent) each, are fully
subsidized as well as associated pump sets costing over Rs. 5,000 (US$ 190
equivalent) under the Million Wells Schme and IRDP.
1.17 Health and sanitation facilities are minimal, with virtually no piped
household water. Though a UNICEF-supported program has successfully installed
over 50,000 hand pumps in the tribal area, they are still too few to cover the
majority of the local population. As for health services, there are over 2500
medical sub-centers, 260 Primary Health Centers, 20 Referral and 9 Sub-
Divisional Hospitals. Because of lack of resources, most of these facilities
are understaffed and poorly maintained. As a result, they offer low quality
service.
1.18     lat_in   el oagala            The tribal population in Bihar is
estimated to be about 5.8 million or 8.3S of the state population. Their
population density is estimated at 240 persons/ W , which is approximately
half the density of the state as a whole. The tribal populatio.a grows at the
low rate of 1.4%, becauso of the high level of out-migration and a reduced
birth rate. About 60% of the tribal people have incomes below the official
poverty line of Rs 6400 (US$ 245) per household per yar. They belong to the
lowest social order, and have traditionally been the most disadvantaged,
subject to economic exploitation and social marginalization. Literacy is 29S,
slightly above the State average (26%), but it is well below the national
averag, of 36%.
1.19 adi 1 n4    o- n   d Daw1n nr   The primary responsibilities of the
administration have traditionally been the maintlnance of law and order, and
tax collection. The tribal area comprises threu Divisions (South Chotanagpur
Palamau and Santhal Parganas), ten districts, 14 sub-divisions and 112 blocks.
The general administration is carried out by the Divisional Commissioners,
each assisted by three officers: a Deputy Development Comnissioner (DDC),
Collector (Revenue), and Superintendent of Police   At the lowest
administrative unit, the block, the Block Development Officer (BDO) is
assisted by field level technical staff of the various departments.
1.20 There are around 17,250 villages in the tribal area, organized through
the panchayat system, which was established in India shortly after
independence as a form of local represontative government. However, Panchayat



elections have not been held in Bihar for a&most 15 years. Local politics
include Members of the Legislative Assembly who represent constituencies
roughly corresponding to one or two blocks and exert considerable influence at
this level, and Members of Parliament whose constituencLes are equivalent to
two or three districts.
1.21 When the Tribal Sub-Plan concept was launched, ovorall responsibility
for devolopment of the tribal people was vested in a Regional Development
Comissioner (RDC), with the rank of Additional Secretary of Government of
India, with a Branch Secretariat located in Ranchi. The line technical
departments for implementation of specialized tasks were assigned to the
regional administration with representatives at the headquarters and fiold
lovel. Because of divided responsibility betwoen the RDC and the state
aQninistration at Patna, inconsistences exist in the approach to development
as a whole. For example, the Minor Irrigation Department is responsible for
medium reservoir and lift irrigation schemes. At the same time, there is
another autonomous organization of the Minor irrigation Department, the Bihar
Hill Area Lift Irrigation Corporation, which deals with lift irrigation in the
same area.
1.22 Cooperative development and marketing institutions operate in several
forms in the tribal area. These include the Tribal Cooperative Marketing
Development Federation, National Cooperative Development Corporation and
primary cooperatives under the Large Area Multipurpose Societies (LAMPS)
specifically established for the tribal area.
1.23 The main functions of the LAMPS are to provide credit to members for
agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, in some cases to operate Public
Distribution System (PDS) stores for basic commodities, and to purchase
produce from farmers on behalf of various apex organizations. So far
repayment of credit provided by cooperative banks through LAMPS have been poor
(less than 50%). As a result of poor recovery, most LAMPS have become
insolvent.
1.24 Though the cooperative movement is highly protected, because of its
inefficiencies the private sector has taken over and provides all vegetable
seed in small, certified packages produced by companies outside the State, and
also supplies part of the shortfall in fertilizers and improved cereal seeds.
Wherever the private sector is allowed to operate, it appears to work more
efficiently than the public sector. Goods and services supplied by th*
private sector are generally readily available through *mall retailers
operating under license in the villages at slightly higher prices above the
subsidized official prices set by government. However, the expansion of the
private distributors was limited by restrictive licensing until recently.
1.25 Also there are other public sector organizations which specifically
serve the rural population. For example, the Rural Electrification
Corporation which deals with power distribution in the rural areas as well as
the Rural Engineering Organization which is responsible for the construction
of rural roads. These organizations are qually ineffective because of
inadequate funding.
1.26 There are about 150 NGOs registered and operating in the tribal area.
These NGOs are involved in various activities, including agricultural



-6-
technology transfer and extension, water supplies and irrigation, rural
industrialization, and promotion of income generating activities for women and
training. Most of theme organizations work indepondent of the state
government, though recently some have taken assignments sponsored by
government. These organizations are mostly funded through donations from
local and foreign sources in support of specific activities.
1.27 Financing o          in    r TribL Peaple. About 4-50 of funds for the
development of the tribal people are derived from COI under the special
central assistance program for a variety of schemes. For example, in the
eighth five-year plan (1990-1995), 00G plans to spond Rs. 1,350 million (US$
52 million equivalent) and GOB Rs. 32,646 million (US$ 1,256 million
equivalent) for tribal-related programs. This represents an annual outlay of
about Rs. 5,272 million (US$ 203 million equivalent).
1.28 The process of transferring government funds to implement projects in
the tribal area is complicated. Some of the funds are remitted directly to
districts, for schemes administered by the District Rural Development Agency
(DRDA), while other funds are administered by the District Planning and
Development Council (DPDC). There are also funds that are sent directly to
the Blocks. These include funds allocated on a per capita basis (currently
Rs. 55/person/year). Also funds for local employment generation are
administered by the Deputy Development Commissioner (DDC). These funds are
used for construction of wells, building simple roads, and construction of
housing and schools. Because the RDC is responsible for only some schemes,
the flow of funds is regulated and controlled at the state level. There is
also a requirement to seek clearance from 001 before expenditures are made on
centrally sponsored schemes. This requirement causes delays of
implementation. Because of divided responsibility for implementation of
tribal programs and diffused financing arrangements, it is difficult to
monitor the effective use of local funds.
1.29 External assistance either through bilateral or multilateral donors is
additional to COl and GOB combined expenditure. Some bilateral donors have
provided assistance to implement specific projects for tribal people. For
example, SIDA supported the Bihar Social Forestry Project in 1985. The
project was designed to increase forest products and their access to the local
population, particularly the poorer and weaker sections of the community. It
has had some success in rehabilitating degraded forests and farm forestry, but
many of its objectives in promoting people's participation in forest
management were undermined by the existence of forest legislation which
precludes the sharing of income from forests with the people. In the field of
sericulturo, the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) is providing assistance
to the Tassar Central Research and Training Institute near Ranchi.
rL LRnk glAMrU
1.30 In addition to resources provided by bilateral donors, the Bank has been
supporting agricultural and rural development in India since the early 1950s.
Up to now 130 projects have received IBRD/IDA financing amounting to US$ 10.2
billion equivalent (81% IDA and 19% IBRD) Of these projects, 52 were for
irrigation and command area development (US$ 4.9 billion equivalent or 50% of
total agricultural lending). The rmaining 78 projects can be sub-divided as
follows: (a) 34 for agricultural support services (credit, research and



-7-
extension) at US$ 2.3 billion equivalent: (b) 24 for conmercial agriculture
development (fisheries, livestock, tree crops and agro-industry) at US$ 1.6
billion equivalent; (c) ton for forestry at US$ 500 million equivalent: and
(d) ten other projects including sector, &roa development, drought assistance
and cyclon, emergoncy projects at about US$ 950 million equivalent.
1.31 The basic thrust of Bank assistance has been tot (a) increase the area
irrigatod and improve water use efficiency: (b) develop the institutions
responsiblo for providing agricultural support services; (c) increase the
production of agricultural products and improve marketing facilities; (d)
afforest degraded areas to reduce soil erosion and to increase production of
fuel wood and timber. Most rocently, innovative watershed projects have also
boon supported. These have successfully demonstrated new promising low-cost
technologies and have helped to resolve a number of implementation problems.
Additionally, the Bank has supported free trade and pricing policies.
1.32 In Bihar alone, the Bank Group has supported 22 agricultural and rural
infrastructure projects of which six were in the tribal area including: Bihar
Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr.761-IN), National Agricultural
Research Project (Cr.855-IN), a follow-up National Agricultural Research
project (Cr.1631-IN), Subernarekha Irrigation Project (Cr. 1289-IN), National
Seeds Project (Cr.885-IN) and Bihar Rural Roads project (Cr.1072-IN).
Len ons from Previous Bank Tnvolvement-
1.33 Many projects supported by the Bank in the agricultural sector have
experienced implementation problems causing delays in disbursement and
completion, although there has been improvement in disbursements recently.
Problems include: delays in project mobilization and procurement: poor quality
construction and maintenance of infrastructure (irrigation, rural roads, etc);
institutional weaknesses; inadequate local financial support by the state
government; and inadequate preparation and implementation of resettlement and
rehabilitation of programs for affected families. Some projects have faced
staff constraints. Some others have provided for only limited participation
of beneficiaries in planning and implementation.
1.34 Though the Bihar Rural Roads Project (Cr. 1072-IN) achieved impressive
physical targets of road construction within the project period, the design,
quality of construction and road maintenance were poor. As a result, the life
of these roads proved much shorter than expected.
1.35 The propoaed project has been specifically designed to overcome such
problems.  Project preparation has been thorough; designs for each year's
program would be more advanced than in the past; effective beneficiary
participation would be sought, including the assistance of NGOs; an integrated
approach to planning of multi-sectoral activities would be introduced;
reliance on government involvement in service delivery and implementation
would be reduced; and priority would be given to training and monitoring and
evaluation (para 3.17, 3.25, 3.27 and 3.56).
1.36 Because the proposed project intends to address development constraints
of the tribal people, precautions have been taken in its design to ensure that
social and economic benefits from the project are consistent with the cultural
preferences of the tribal people. To achieve this, the selection process of



-8-
activities under the existing TSP in the projoct area would be modified to
assure full beneficiary participation and ownorship of most assets created
under the projoct. The project design, and the planning and implementation
process is also consistent with the Bank's Operational Directive (OD 4.20)
which deals with indigenous people (tribal*) (para 3.9 and 3.16).
RatXpoa1a f6r slank TnMove,vm.nt~
2.1  The Bank's assistanco strategy to India is to support policies and
investments that will encourage economic growth and poverty alleviation in a
context of macro economic stability. The mphasis is on efficient resource
allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector and appropriate
targeting and delivery of support systems to the poor. An increasingly
important element of the strategy is to promote sustainable programs,
especially in agriculture, that will help to alleviate poverty in the most
backward areas of the eastern states of India.
2.2  The proposed project fits well within this framework, targeting the
poor, predominantly tribal peoples in Bihar. It would bring about general,
improvement on the quality of life for the rural people. The project area has
a high incidence of poverty and contains considerable agricultural potential.
By carefully evaluating past performance experionce, initiating pilot
activities in untried but potentially rewarding areas, and encouraging
innovations in participatory management, the project would help identify an
approach to development that is effective and sustainable in Bihar and eastern
India in general.
Prict Aea
2.3  The project area includes 67 blocks consisting of 7370 villages in nine
districts of the two regions of the southern plateau of Bihar (see map). The
area covers about 23,000 sq km with a population of 3.7 million, more than 80%
of which belong to the scheduled castes and tribes.
Project Obict_ivs ad Den4ntL=
2.4  The main objective of the project is to increase rural incomes and
alleviate poverty of the tribal people in the underdeveloped southern plateau
of Bihar stato. This would be achieved through: (a) making investments in
critical areas of infrastructure needed for improved delivery of agricultural
services for increasing production and easing marketing problems, (b)
strengthening the planning, coordination and monitoring of the local
administration, (c) significantly expanding the involvement of beneficiaries
and introducing an integrated approach to planning and implementation of
multi-sectoral activities, and (d) promoting environmentally sustainable
activities. The project would include the following components: (i)
Agricultural Development, (ii) Minor Irrigation and Drainage, (iii) Rural
Roads, (iv) Drinking Water, and (v) Project Implementation support. To
sustain assets created under the project, cost recovery would be introduced,
at least to cover their operation and maintenance expenses. Beneficiaries
would also be expected to contribute towards the cost of creating these assets
and claim ownership rights.



-  =r~~~~~~~~~~~9
2.5            rilLIal fl.v1I.ThISn.n  (US$ 6.1 million or 5.5% of base cost). Because
of the low level of technology applied in farming in the project area, crop
yi-lds are generally low. Production of fruits and vegetables has not
improved despite the increasing demand for such products. Soils are acidic
with low levels of nutrients and drain easily: livestock productivity is also
low. Small livestock, particularly goats, pigs and chickens, are poor
produeers, but through the natural selection process, have adapted to the
harsh environment, which includes high incidence of disease, poor nutrition
and inadequate animal husbandry practices.
2.6 To address these problems, the project would focus on the institutional
development aspects associated with applied agricultural research and transfer
of technology. It would help Dirsa Agricultural University test and improve
crop varieties and animal species suited for the area. The project would also
support adaptive research through on-farm trials, demonstrations, and
training. To expedite the release of promising crop varieties, the adaptive
research would also include testing of existing improved seed of lowland rice,
sorghum and millet (para 1.11). Because Noos would be involved in the
promotion of the improved technology, the University would also support and
equip them to properly carry out this responsibility. The support would
include training and field demonstration. The project would also provide
funds for incremental operational expenses. In addition, the project would
support environmental protection against *oil erosion and conserve moisture,
particularly in those catchment areas associated with irrigation schemes under
the project. The process would also increase the productivity of dryland
farming.
2.7  Mn  T- --o  on m    a1n cr  (US$ 35.4 million or 31.9S of base cost).
There is need to provide assured water for irrigation to extend the cropping
season for Increased crop production. Priority would be to develop irrigation
facilities in areas where there is strong farmers intarest in and acceptance
of the major responsibility for operation and maintenance of the schemes.
Increasing farmers rights and responsibility, through water user groups
promoted by the implemnting agencies and NOos, would be an important
innovative feature in the project. The project would also strengthen the
Minor Irrigation Department (KID) in design and quality control of irrigation
schemes.
2.8 To ensure the component is inplemented properly, the Minor Irrigation
Department (MID) would be strengthened to collect and analyze hydrological
data, monitor ground water, design and ensure quality of construction and
establish proper procedures for monitoring operation and maintenance
activities. The component would also include: (a) rehabilitation of existing
gravity schemas (5,000 ha), construction of new gravity schemes (7,000 ha),
rehabilitation of lift irrigation schemes (2,500 ha) and construction of new
lift irrigation schemes (500 ha); all with command areas of 30 ha or more, (b)
construction of maller gravity irrigation schemes (below 30 ha panchayat
schmes) for about 1,500 ha, (c) construction of about 4,000 dug-wells (4,000
ha), (d) construction of about 690 water harvesting tanks (3,500 ha), (e)
construction of a design office and a materials testing laboratory for MID at
Ranchi, (f) provision of-engineering equpment, (g) transport and incremental
operating funds, and (h) technical assistance to support MID in its



-10-
preparation and supervision work, and training of staff. Guidelines for
formulating Gravity Irrigation schemes and the Training program are presented
in Annex 4. Becauso of inadequate hydrological data base for determining the
potential for irrigation during rabi and summer seasons; and the erratic
unreliable power supply from the grid, implementation of lift irrigation
schemes would be subject to confirmed hydrological data showing adequate post-
monsoon river flows and guaranteed power supply.
2.9  Rural Roads (US$ 54.7 million or 49.2% of base cost). Because rural
roads in the project area are almost impassable during the rainy season making
it difficult to access markets, the project would upgrade about 1,200 km of
intermediate roads, tracks and bridges. It would also provide funds for road
maintenance during the project period; consultant services for road survey,
design and preparation of civil works contracts and supervision of
construction; equipment and vehicles for survey, materials testing and quality
control; institution building in the Rural Engineering Department including
training of staff in the construction and maintenance practices appropriate
for rural roads; and office building, stores, laboratory and a mechanical
workshop.
2.10 flrinkina wAter (US$ 13.1 million or 11.8% of base cost). The project
would accelerate implementation of Bihar's existing program to provide one
hand pump for every 150 individuals in rural areas. The project would
finance: (a) boring wells and installing 13,060 hand pumps, (b) equipment and
chemicals for the existing water quality testing laboratory, (c) transport to
the Engineering Department of Public Health to ensure effective supervision of
construction, repairs and maintenance of water facilities, (d) pump spare
parts, and Ce) training user groups and rural artisans in pump repair and
maintenance.
2.11 Proj.et  lma1.mentation  (USs 1.7 million or 1.5% of base cost).  Because
the present administrative arrangement for implementing programs for the
tribal people is weak and inadequately funded, the project would strengthen
the Regional Development Comnissioner's Office by proving funds for training
and recruitment of incremental staff, vehicles and equipment, and funds for
their operation and maintenance. Funds would also be provided to support NGO
activities and for innovative schemes which could be developed during
implementation. These funds would also be used for short term consultants to
prepare a suitable training program for project staff and an appropriate
monitoring and evaluation system and for conducting a base line social survey.
At the state-level, the Development Commissioner's office in Patna would be
provided with vehicles, office equipment and funds for their operation and
maintenance, to coordinate project activities between government departments
and for conducting studies intended to develop innovative activities in the
project area.
Prolect Costs and Finaneing
2.12 Total project costs including physical and price contingencies are
estimated at Rs 3895.2 million CUS$ 132.2 million) of which US$ 19.6 million
or 14.8% of base costs would be in foreign exchange. The breakdown of costs
by component is shown at Annex 1, Tables 1-5 and are summarized below. Costs
are based on actual May 1992 prices and include physical contingencies
averaging 9.8% of total base costs, and price contingencies totalling US$ 10.2



-11-
million or 9.2% of base costs are based on the following projected annual
inflation rate.
92/3 93/4 94/5' 95/6 96/7
Local S                 10.0   8.2   7.2   6.4   4.2
Foreign %                3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7
Identifiable duties and taxes would amount to Re 78.4 million (US$ 2.7
million).  Total project cost, net of duties and taxes, would be US$ 129.5
million.
----- (US$ M.) ------     %
Coeonant.a..                 Local  Foreign  Total    For Ex
Agriculture Development      5.7      0.4     6.1       6.5
Minor Irrigation             30.0     5.4   35.4       15.5
Rural Roads                  44.8     9.9    54.7      18.1
Drinking Water               12.5     0.7    13.2       5.1
Project Implementation        1.7     0.0     1.7       1.2
Total Base Costs             94_7    ILA   11.11       14.8
Physical Contingency          9.2     1.7    10.9      15.1
Price Contingency             8.6     1.6    10.2      15.7
Total Project Costs         112 .    1L2.   132L2      14.9
2.13  The proposed IDA credit of SDR 80.7 million (US$ 117.0 million
equivalent) would finance 90% of total project costs, net of duties and taxes,
or 88% of total costs including taxes, and all foreign exchange costs.
2.14 The IDA Credit would be made to GOI on standard terms and conditions and
GOI would on-lend credit proceeds to GOB, on standard terms and arrangements.
The State's contribution, including that of beneficiaries of US$ 15.2 million,
would be included in the normal GOB budgetary allocations and cost recoveries
from beneficiaries for project activities. Funds for implementing individual
activities would be channeled through the Regional Development Comnissioner's
office to implementing agencies. These funds would be available for
reallocation among components depending on the success of implementation of a
particular component or the need for inclusion of any new activities within
the general project objective and area. This arrangement would encourage
implementing agencies to complete their targets ahead of schedule and increase
their activities, particularly since the potential for such expansion exists.
2.15 Incremental costs for sustaining activities and facilities established
under the project following its completion would be met by beneficiaries
through collection of charges from user groups. The State government's
budgetary support would be limited to rural road repair and maintenance and
initial maintenance of drinking water facilities. Beneficiaries would be
expected to participate fully by providing some of the labor needed for
construction of minor irrigation schemes and for their operation and



-12-
maintenance. They would also be expected to construct and maintain village
link roads.          t was nht.wnuld make
Ad.gfiaut" .' nru36  in it! bu&,.t! t!               -=s~~~ra at!u of implamenting7 line
drnnat!mntaagan6iea durinevteIne.t!tia    aid
2.16 CJivil wgrks consist of construction of dams and water conveyanc, systems
for new minor irrigation schemes; rehabilitation of old minor irrigation
schemes, drinking water supply schemes, dug wells, rural roads, and buil.dings.
These works are small and scattered around several sites. As such, they would
not attract foreign bidders. Hence, these works would be procured using the
following local competitive bidding (LCB) or force account procedures.
(a) LCD would be used in respect of civil works for construction of dame
and water conveyance systems, for new minor irrigation schemes, drinking
water supply, rural roads and buildings valued in aggregate $ 96.0 M4.
*  The works would be grouped into convenient packages for bidding, but of
not less than US$ 400,000 and necessary land would be acquired prior to
bidding. Bidders would be pre-qualified for all works valued over US$
500,000. Contracts would be issued using standard procedures
satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) Force Account up to an aggregate value of $ 5.0 M4 would be followed
for all small civil works in remote areas, valued $10,000 and below,
particularly in respect of rehabilitation of minor irrigation schemes;
construction of new gschemes, water harvesting tanks, dug wells;
infrastructure for agricultural development; and repair and maintenance
of some roads.
2.17 newinor. Machineon *nh m       mnt  The project would require about 126
vehicles and 123 motor cycles and machinery, tools and euipmeno, all valued
in aggregate US$ 3.3 m. These would be grouped into packages for the purpose
of bidding. Packages costing over US$ 200,000 would be procured following ICe
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Small items of vehicles, equipment and
furniture, costing less than US$ 20,000 per package up to an aggregate value
of US$ 100,000 would be procured following local shopping procedures after
comparing price quotations obtained from at least three supplier.io
Construction materials ruiroed for forceb account works up to an aggregate
value of US$ 100,000 would be procured following local shopping procedures.
2.18             Biddners w turdi        . aifd forall Consultant services
for about 810 man-months  ostimated to cost Ud $ 18.4 M would be contracted on
terms and conditions in accordance with the Bank's guidlines for use of
consultants. Studies, cnto and Training all estimated to cost US$ 3.8 M would
be procured using existing GOD procedures.
2.19 Mataziala required for operation and maintenance of project vehicles,
equipment and machinery, all estimated to cost US$ 4.1 M; materials and labor
for watershed treatment and; swed, seedlings, fertilizer, breeding stock and
small   uipment and materials for agricultural development activities, all
valued at U$ 1.6 M0, would be procured using existing GOD procurement
procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association.



-13-
2.20 All LCB contracts including civil works valued over US$ 200,000 (about
90%); goods/equipm.nt valued over US$ 100,000 (about 10%) and consultant
services would be subject to the Eanks prior review. All other contracts
would be subject to post review.
2.21 Procurement arrangements are summarized below; figures in parenthesis
indicate amounts to be financed by the Bank:
-----------------US$ 14---------------------
1. Civil Works                       96.0         5.0         101.0
(87.0)      (3.0)        (90.0)
2. Watershed                                      1.6           1.6
Treatment and                                 (0.2)         (0.2)
Agricultural
material
3. Machinery,            3.1                     0.2            3.3
Equipment,          (2.6)                    (0.2)          (2.8)
materials
and Vehicles
4. Technical                                    22.2           22.2
Assistance,                                  (22.2)        (22.2)
Studies, NGO
and Training
5. Incremental                                   4.1            4.1
Operating Costs                               (1.8)         (1.8)
Total                    3.1         96.0       33.1          132.2
(2.6)       (87.0)     (27.4)        (117.0)
2.22 Disbursements under the Credit would cover 90S of the total project
costs including the following (the Disbursement Schedule is presented in Annex
2):
(a) 100% of expenditure on technical assistance, Studies, NG08 and
training;
(b) 90% of expenditure on civil works for dams, dug wells, drinking
water facilities, water conveyance system, rural roads, and
buildings;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditure or 100% of ex-factory costs or 80% of
coats of vehicles, equipment and furniture, if purchased locally;
and
(d) expenditure on operating costs on a declining basis as follows: 70%
until June 30, 1994, 50% until June 30, 1996 and 20% thereafter
(including incremental salaries and wages, vehicle and equipment



-14-
operation and maintenance, agricultural materials, office supply
and utilities and road maintenance costs).
2.23 Disbursements for expenditures for equipment and furniture under
contracts exceeding US$ 100,000 would be fully documented, as would
disbursements for vehicles, consultants, and training. For all other
expenditures, IDA would disburse against statements of expenditure (SOE) in an
agreed format. Supporting documents for SOE's would be available for
inspection by supervision missions and auditors, and retained by implementing
agencies for one year after Bank receipt of the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the credit account was made. Based on
the actual credit disbursement profile for Bank-assisted Agricultural projects
in India, the credit under the project could be disbursed over eight years,
though the project i. designed to be implemented in five years. However, it
is possible full disbursements could be completed in a shorter period because
of the detailed preparation work already undertaken, thereby ensuring early
start to implementation. Therefore, disbursements are projected over a period
of six years from July 1992 to June 1998. Project completion is expected by
December, 1997, and credit closing by June, 1998.
Rotroactive Finaneing and Speeial Aecount
2.24 To expedite project start-up, IDA would retroactively finance project
costs incurred after appraisal (July 1, 1992) up to a limit of SDR--M (US$ 6 M
equivalent), provided IDA procurement procedures and guidelines were followed..
These expenditures would include procurement of vehicles and equipment,
consultant services and workshops for training and other start-up activities.
To facilitate timely payments of project expenditures, a Special Account
amounting to an equivalent of US$ 6 million (equal to three months'
expenditure) would be established at the Reserve Bank of India. Subsequently,
GOB would establish an account in Patna for the equivalent amount in rupees
specifically for the project. The account in Patna would be replenished
quarterly in advance by 001 or when the account is drawn down to about 50% of
the initial deposit, whichever occurs first. GOI would then be re-imbursed
from the special account for the equivalent amount advanced to GOB.
III. PRQO CT..snM2sToATZtm
3.1   agnerml The secretariat under the Regional Development Commissioner
(RDC) at Ranchi coordinates implementation of a number of activities of
government development departments and 14 Project Units. Though the state
government allocates about 25% of the planned budget to the tribal area
annually, so far its development record has not been impressive. The
inadequate performance was partly caused by the weak financial and
administrative arrangement; partial transfer of development responsibilities
and state plan funds to the RDC; a disoriented top-down planning process; miss-
match between annual plans and budget allocation, several control points over
field staff and funds flow; insufficient implementation coordination; absence
of performance monitoring and evaluation; insufficient beneficiary
participation; and delays in settlement of accounts.
3.2 The general administrative set-up consisting of the Regional
Conuissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Block Development Officers who are
responsible for implementing rural development projects is loosely linked to



the RDC organizational structure. At the state-level, except for a comnittee
to review proposals with costs exceeding Re. 2.5 million, there is no other
specific institutional arrangement to review and direct implementation of
tribal programs. The role of control, coordination and direction of
implementation of tribal programs is diffused and scattered over several
departments.
3.3   To address the problem, the project would introduce improved planning,
budgeting, supervision, management information system and monitoring and
evaluation methods; and promote the involvement of NGOs and beneficiaries in
project activities to bring about better accountability and commitment. This
approach would be tried for the first time in Bihar and could be replicated
widely if found successful. The attached organization structure would be
adequately staffed to implement these proposals.
3.4   At the state-level, the Development Commissioner (DC) would be
responsible for all project-related activities. He would be assisted by a
senior officer and one other staff member. The DC would be primarily
responsible for providing timely and adequate releases of project funds,
coordinating project activities with other developmient departments, sorting
out policy issues, and reviewing project performance. A state Steering
Ca*mvUmn would be established with the DC as its Chairman, RDC as Member-
Secretary, and Secretaries of Finance, Planning and other project-related
departments as members. This Committee would set the policy for the
development of the tribal people and would meet at least once every three
months to review progress of the project and sort out implementation problems.
The DC would have at his disposal some project funds for conducting studies
for introducing new development concepts and programs in the project area.
The Association would reayie and a=nrove these studies before they are
imlemanted  to ualify for credit funds.
3.5   The RDC would be the Chief Executive Officer of the project with overall
responsibility for planning, funding, directing and evaluating the project.
To enable the RDC to perform effectively, he would need the requisite
administrative and financial powers. These are: (a) project funds to flow
through the RDC to the heads of departments and agencies and Deputy
Commissioners implementing the project, (b) full administrative and financial
powers to sanction expenditure for schemes and activities as proposed in the
project, (c) heads of departments and agencies implementing activities of the
project to be answerable to the RDC, who would evaluate their performance and
record in their personal files on an annual basis, and (d) senior officers of
the implementing departments should not be transferred out of the project
without prior consultation with the RDC. At the negotiationa. COB agreed to
Drovide the RwC with the recui.ite administrative and financial Dower.
3.6 A separate Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be created in the
RDC's office at Ranchi which would be headed by a senior level officer (at
least higher than heads of departments implementing the project) designated as
Project Director (PD) to assist the RDC and would be responsible for the day-
to-day management of the project, including coordination of activities
implemented by line departments. PIU would have three Cells to support the
general administration of the project, to include: (a) Planning and Monitoring
and Evaluation, (b) NGO and Environment Protection Activities, and (c)



-16-
Accounts and Audit.                    a Prelst           ation Unit in a
adition of afetveeu
3.7   The existing PIannin  and Mnitoring Call would be strengthened with the
following incremental staffs (a) an Economist, (b) a Superintending Engineer,
and (c) an Evaluation Officer-cum-Statistician. Only competont persons with
appropriate academic background and field experience in project planning and
monitoring and with skills in computer use would be contracted or deployed for
these positions on a fixed-term basis; their salaries and other personal
emolumonts would be accomuodated within the overall budgetary provisions.
Recruitment for all these positions would be undertaken by a committee
consisting of the Regional Development Commissioner, Project Director, and an
outside expert nominated by the Development Comissioner.
3.8   The primary responsibility of the planning cell would be to formulate
and finalize annual plans for the project in consultation with individual
implementing agencies; and review and monitor implementation progress. In
addition, the cell would assess field training needs and organize training for
staff in project planning and management, and other courses as the Project
Durector sees fit.
3.9   The NaO and Rnvironment Ce11 would be staffed by an Environmentalist,
Sociologist/Anthropologist, and an Institutions Specialist with experience of
organizing NGOs. The cell would carry-out environmental assessment and
amelioration (see para 3.38); and coordinate NGO activities. It would
organize workshops which would provide fora for NGOs to dellborate on all
aspects of the project and recommend changes where necessary, for
consideration by the different decision-making committee meetings.  At these
workshops NOO representatives would be elected for the proposed committees
under the project (see Organization Chart). The cell would also review
investment proposals with respect to the participatory process and social
concern; develop innovative proposals for possible implementation under the
project; standardize the methodology, procedure, and norms for major field
activities, such as beneficiary organization and field training; and
monitoring and evaluation of NGO activities implemented with financial
assistance from the project. Though investments under the project are not
expected to displace families from their lands, as a precaution, anreemant wan
obtained atnatainnthat con wldakaeuaeraneiementrforan
atqinitionnand resett- etadrhaiiaino   ffected nersona.
CtiUfantoM& to the 3lak (see the Role of NGOs and their selection criteria in
Annex 7).
3.10  'rhoe Ace-un  d Audit cean would provide guidance to individual sector
department. implementing the project and the Development Commissioner's office
at Patna dealing with activities of the project to observe normal government
control and auditing procedures. Separate records and accounts would be
maintained for project expenditure. identifying all transactions pertaining to
Bank financing, with the supporting documentation which would be retained for
review by Bank supervision missions. To be able to provide this guidance, the
Cell would be staffed by an Accounts Officer drawn from the Accountant
GeneralVs office and three State Government Auditors. Besides the above
responsibilities, the Unit would be responsible for the internal audit of all
project activities in the sector departments, and ensure timely rendering of
annual accounts/audits to the Bank. To enforce the quality of work, it would



-17-
also take up technical auditc on a regular basis collaborating with the staff
of the Planning Cell; outside experts would also be employed using project
funds to assist in auditing.
3.11 The GOB auditing arrangements would continue, and an audit in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles and auditing standards would be
made.
wituId oonmoblidAte pnetaeutad   ndtthe AkamgeM!b   n gaXtifiled
copies of the Audited seom"nt.* And AtoEm ftr the prolect not La ta   in=
3.12  A Project s eoutive c!itee would be created at Ranchi to assist the
RDC and PD in planning and implementation of project activities. The
Committees main task would be to review and approve annual work plans and
sanction associated expenditure in the budget. Periodically, it would assess
project performance and offer suggestions for improvement. The RDC would be
the chairman of the Committee; other members would be the PD, Additional
Secretary (Finance) of the Mini-Secretariat, the project officer of the
Development Commissioner's office; three officials of the project implementing
agencies and some Noos/user group representatives of major components of the
project including, rural roads, minor irrigation and drainage, drinking water,
and agricultural developent.
3.13 Because implementing departments have other responsibilities, separate
cells would be created in each line department at Ranchi exclusively for
implementing project activities. To assist in project implementation, each
department and agency would establish an implementation committee comprising
the following: (a) Head of the Departmont or Agency concerned, (b) senior
officer from the departmental cell - (Secretary), (c) two field-level managers
of the Department or Agency nominated by the Head of Department or Agency, and
(d) representatives of two NMOs with expertise and/or experience in the
concerned subject area. The Committee would meet periodically (at least once
every quarter) to review plans and field implementation problems and advise
the Head of Department on the appropriate action.
3.14  The Deputy Commissioners through their development wings in the
districts would coordinate and integrate all project activities in the
district and assist the RDC and PD in planning and overseeing implementation.
The Block Development Officers would perform a similar role at the block-
level. At the district, block, and village-levels, the District Planning and
Development Council), the panchayatz samiti and the village panchayats would
help the rural development administration in planning and implementation of
project activities. The local institutions would be important contact points
for consulting and sensitizing people to project activities.
Planning Procedure
3.15 The project is designed as a rolling program with annual plans phased in
to cover the project area over the implementation period. It aims at
promoting integrated planning and coordinated implementation of the sub-
components to secure maximum socio-economic gains. Achieving implementation
efficiency, high quality of works, cost-effectiveness and NOO and beneficiary
involvement are some of its major objectives. Minimizing environmental



-18-
hazards and promoting environmentally positive programs are other areas of
focus. The Planning and Monitoring Cell would keep the project conceptual
framework in view and carry out its tasks in accordance with agreed norms and
standards (see para 3.19).
3.16  The Planning and Monitoring Cell would: (a) formulate in June/September
of each year the annual work program for the succeeding year in consultation
with the heads of departments/agencies, Deputy Commissioners and NGOs, asnd (b)
review implementation progress during the year, agree on the selection and
design criteria, review M&E reports, other specific studies, and
NOO/beneficiary suggestions, as the base for project planning. All activities
likely to have any adverse impact or environment would be referred to and
cleared by the responsible Environmentalist. Likewise, activities considered
to affect the ethnic integrity of the tribal people would be referred to the
Anthropologist/Sociologist.
3.17 Each draft annual plan would be referred to the Zilla Parishads (local
councils) concerned for their views and then finalized. The views of the
Zilla Parishad in the selection of activities and sites for works would be
given due consideration in finalizing the annual plan. The final plan would
then be discussed by the Project Committee and approved. The approved plan
would form the basis for budget preparation. Agreement warn obtained at the
negotiations that COB would causne line _d2artment otaff plementing the
project to consult with beneficiariea in the orocean of nlanning and
implementation of activitien.
3.18  The Planning and Monitoring Cell would have funds for project-related
studies, which would be implemented by consultants and NGOs. To use these
funds, an annual study plan with agreed Terms of Reference would be prepared
and cleared by the Project Committee and the Bank before implementation.
oitingg and Evaluation
3.19 The Project Director supported by consultants would develop an
appropriate Monitoring and Evaluation system for delivery of information on
implementation and performance from the field. Computer facilities would be
provided to support the Planning and Monitoring Cell. The team would also
prepare a suitable training program for the PIU staff and project performance
indicators and conduct a base-line social survey as a part of project start-up
activity.      intment of Conaulta  tg Dr   are a training Rrr
staff and an appronriate monitorina and evaluation eystem and for conducting a
base line social survey in a condition of effectiveneoss
3.20 The project budget would have a separate code number and would be
classified into sub-units to reflect project components. Each implementing
department would be assigned a code number for tracking expenditure
transactions. Performance budgeting would be introduced to relate expected
physical performance with the funds budgeted for each implementing department.
The performance budget would be the main document for project implementation
review. Training in performance budget formulation and use would be organized
by Project Director (PD) for all concerned staff. Once the budget is



-19-
approved, the RDC/PD would hold Projeot Comnittee meetings before the
beginning of tho fiscal year to sanction project activities.
3.21 Implementation of individual activities would be undertaken by line
d partments, the district and block development administration and responsible
public sector organizations. NOOs and beneficiaries would also be encouraged
to participate in project implementation. However, the overall coordination
of implementation would be done by the Project Director. Other
responsibilities of the Project Director would include reviewing plans
prepared by line departments, approving these plans, allocating funds and
monitoring implementation of approved plans.
3.22 Because of the complex nature of the project and the poor performance of
government departments in irbplementing previous Bank-assisted projects, both
local and international consultants would be recruited to assist implementing
departments/agencies.             a                    n.aotiations  that OOR
would r.pcu   ad ratain th.  orutatr    lnag as t             Zavat  reouirad.
3.23  Agri.u2±ura   Because the component includes distinct programs for
improvement of production technology and watershed development and treatment,
they would be implemented by separate appropriate agencies. The improvement
program for seed, livestock and horticulture would be implemented by the Birsa
Agricultural University and the watershed development program by the
Department of Agriculture (Soil Conservation Section). To expedite the
release of material suited for the area, priority would be given to testing
available technological packages (para 2.6). The private sector would be
contracted to produce foundation seed and lead farmers would be selected to
produce certified seed under the existing special food grain production
program, which provides assistance for seed multiplication. Farmers' fields
for the multiplication of certified seed would also serve as demonstration
plots to other farmers through the existing extension service to promote the
uptake of improved varieties. Also, both research scientists of the
agricultural university and NOOs would assist in providing promotional support
for the transfer of production technology through adaptive trials in farmers
fields
3.24 Traditional as well as modern farm implements owned by project farmers
are not regularly maintained. To alleviate the problem, using project funds,
NOos would train farmers in the proper operation and maintenance of a wide
range of mall farm implements and equipment. Some NC00, such as the Society
for Rural Industrialization, are already training youths from neighboring
villages in the manufacture and repair of farm equipment and machinery. Such
NoOs would be supported in their effort through the project.
3.25  Minor Irrigation and E         n--   The component would be implemented by
the Minor Irrigation Department (MID), Rural Development Department (RDD), the
Deputy Commissioners in the participating districts and Block Development
Officers at the block-level together with NGOs and usor groups/water users
association within the panchayats through local contractors. However, MID
would be responsible for maintenance of all main drains in the project area.
As for link and field drains, village panchayats and water users associations
respectively, would be responsible for their maintenance. At the regional-



-20-
level, two Chief Engineers of MID would be responsible each for Chotanagpur
and Santhal Parganas regions. Their functions would include: designing,
quality control, maintenance of main drains and monitoring implementation of
other irrigation activities. The Chief engineers would be supported by
qualified staff and consultants. The staff would include: a Superintendent
Engineer, three Executive Engineers, 14 Assistant Engineers, 14 Junior
Engineers and other Technical Support staff.   In the case of operation and
maintenance, NGO's/usor groups would take over after construction is
completed.  Agreement was obtained at noi
g=.arshin nd the ram  gnibillty for operatin an  aneaa   f irrigation
*hoesp   o aiavtn an   d hater uare annofigaion   .no nareeti
reaehd to construct the scheme.
3.26  Three cells would be created to support implementation to include: (a)
The monitoring and o2eration                      which would be responsible
for monitoring all project activities under the MID, and would be headed by a
Superintending Engineer. This office with the support of NGOs would also
assist in the formation of water users' associations and provide support in
carrying out more complex maintenance. (b) The Onality Control Call which
would be headed by a Superintending Engineer based at Ranchi to coordinate the
work in the two regions. Its main task would be to supervise and monitor
implementation to ensure specifications and quality of construction are
maintained. (c) The Design CM_l which would be directly under the Chief
Engineer at Ranchi, headed by a superintending engineer. This unit would
undertake all design work for the component.
3.27 Because the success of the minor irrigation component would depend on
the level of support and participation of the beneficiaries, establishment of
a voluntary water users association, under the Bihar and Orissa Cooperative
Societies Act of 1935, for a particular schewilwttor harvesting tank with
actual contributions towards the cost of const:-.&ction would be a pro-requisite
for inclusion of such a scheme/water harvestitg tank under the project. Full
ownership with responsibilities for operatien *nd maintenance of the
irrigation schemes and water harvesting tanks bky beneficiaries would be
explained clearly, preferably by NO0s, during the% process of establishing
water users associations.    re         wa  o i  D at neaotiationn that GOR
woull refrain  r    onstruen   nWhi
subsidized in the selected l~loclnineetn  i]lrshmsnnotdb
projeect funds.
3.28 To assist the Minor Irrigation Department pesform its functions
adequately, and because of the additional responsibility under the project,
consultants would be recruited and retained for the entire life of the
project, to supervise implementation. A strong multi-disciplinary consulting
team would be attached to the Chief Engineers of both regions to assist in
designing, quality control and monitoring implementation.
3.29 This technical assistance would include resident consultants: (a) Team
Leader-a Senior Irrigation Engineer (60 manmonths), (b) Water Resources
Engineer/Hydrologist (60 manmonths), Ic) Irrigation Design Engineer (60
manmonths), (d) Construction/Quality control Engineer (48 manmontho), 1e)
Irrigation Agronomist (18 manmonths), and (f) Electrical/Mechanical Engineer
(24 manmonths). There would also be field specialized staff including: (a)
Six Water Management Engineers (348 manmonths) and (b) Six Institutions



-21-
Specialists (456 manmonth). Terms of Referenco for Technical Assistance are
presented in Annex 4 (ii).
3.30 Drinking water. The component would be implemented by the Public Health
Engineering Department, village panchayats and users. Actual drilling of tube
wells and installation of hand pumps would be contracted out to private
individuals/firms and NOOs. The task would be issued on a turn key basis
under the supervision of the Public Health Engineering Department.  Minor
modifications to the existing well design would be introduced, such as the
introduction of Mark III pumps which require little maintenance and the
construction of clothes-washing floors and tree-planting around the well
drainage area to remove stagnant water. The process would help to reduce the
spread of disease, particularly malaria.
3.31 Pump maintenance is currently a PHED responsibility, but is under-funded
and poorly organized. To alleviate the problem, some youths from villages
concerned would be trained by NOs in the maintenance of these hand pumps.
Through the existing "caretaker arrangement, major repairs would initially
continue to be carried out by the PHED staff and later transferred to the
users. At that stage, beneficiaries would pay for the full cost of
maintenance of the drinking water facilities. UNICEF would assist PHED in
quality control of materials used for construction of wells and in organizing
"caretaker programs. Besides, it would provide support for health education
by conducting the training required and providing training aids. Agxmamnt
was obtained at rneg2tiationu  ht00   ol  transfer  ah regS=os bility for
renir  nd aitenance of dikingy water  aaiite  to Ranchavto and vIlages
concermed asso   stecosrueition ts omlt.
3.32  RuralRogas.  The component would be implemented by the Rural
Engineering Organization and the Rural Development Department, and supported
by village panchayats. The Chief Engineer of the Rural Engineering
Organization would be responsible for overall supervision of implementation.
Private contractors would undertake the construction of rural roads. The
component would also include services of consultants to assist in the
preparation of designs and drawings, supervision of construction contracts and
training of staff (see the Training Program in Annex 3, iii). Contract
management consultants would include: (a) Team leader, (b) Quantity Surveyor,
(c) Road Engineer, (d) Bridge Engineer and (e) Training Engineer; for the
duration of the project (540 man-months). Consultants for planning and detail
engineering services would include: Design and Soil Engineers for 36 man-
months.
3.'3 Roads to be upgraded would be selected in significant-length stretches
to facilitate tendering and contract supervision. They would generally be six
meters wide, topped with a bedding of granular material (murram). The
selection would take into account areas of agricultural potential, traffic
growth projections, need to improve existing communication system between
villages and markets, and the extent to which land acquisition and
environmental costs can be minimized. The projoct includes a set of criteria
and weights by which individual roads would be ranked.  Aeement was obtained
atupportiations that be    wovdd tmothont the evelopmend Deprent t
(iv)) for ranking and select na roas to be au=nre   ne  the project.
Support would also be provided to the Rural Development Department to



-22-
strengthen its roads construction and maintenance capability, particularly as
it applies to feeder roads n-eadd to link villages with project roads.
3.34 The life of rural roads in Bihar is often shortened due to lack of
effective maintenance (paras 1.37 and 1.38). To alleviate the problem the
project would include support for rural road maintenance on a declining basis.
However, to ensure the support is effectively used, GOB would be required to
prepare a detailed policy on rural road maintenance, including streamlining
the assignment of responsibility for rural roads and preparation of a road
master plan and funding arrangements. The possibility of privatizing road
maintenance and introduction of road tolls with the objective of covering the
full cost of maintenance would be considered by GOB when preparing a road's
maintenance policy. Short term consultants would be recruited to assist GOB
develop such a policy.   rearation  fnne  2ol4e!vand
i¶lmntatiO ian a  eeentable to the )eeiio   aa6nii   of
diaurremnt of er dit funds o   odmitnne
REWorting. Mid-Term Review and Projeet eg=mlat ion Rgr,ggt
3.35 Progress reports would be prepared by individual implementing
departments/agencies semi-annually (every September and March of each year)
and submitted to the Project Committee for clearance and consolidation before
being sent to the Bank, no later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal
year. Each report would contain brief descriptions of the main events of the
reporting period including progress of physical implementation; expenditures
incurred; staffing status; procurement and force account arrangements. These
reports would compare actual with targets of the indicative plans and annual
work programs.
3.36 An independent outuide consultant would carry out a mid-term review of
the project at the end of the second year of implementation. The review
would focus on progress made and take stock of the experience gained in
implementing individual components of the project, and evaluate problems
associated with participatory planning and implementation with beneficiaries.
Agreed recommendations of the mid-term review would be implemented by each
agency/department involved.            was obtained at no
wol. through ndndetonltt..aryout a Midt                      eiew gf the
nroJeet no atrha  the and of the seond vear of imimnation aind that
arired eoonenatioe o  th Mi-term Revie wol  b   mieetd.
3.37 A project completion report would be prepared by the Project
Implamentation Unit on the basis of Bank's guidelines no later than six
months from the closing date of the credit.
3.38 The *nvironmental classification for the project is category 'B.
Possible negative environmental impact of the project activities could be:
loss of potential agricultural and forest land, soil erosion, and possible
increase in the incidence of malaria. To minimize these, the project has
been designed with appropriate mitigating actions including: sensitizing
government staff and user groups; minimizing and, in some cases, avoiding
land acquisition; penalizing road sub projects with negative environmental
effects in a screening process; monitoring of incidence of diseases and



-23-
destroying vector breeding areas; and recruitment of an environmentalist in
the NCO and Environment Cell with responsibility for environmental clearance
of project activities. The project would also include treatment and
protection of degraded catchment areas associated with irrigation works.
More detailed Environmental and Social Aspects are presented in Annex 6.
Prnlaet~ R.n.fitsp andi .Tutif4eat~ion
3.39 The project would increase crop production, employment opportunities,
incomes and installation of sustainable production assets. A network of
1,200 km of rural roads would be constructed, upgraded and maintained; water
would be made available to irrigate 24,000 ha of land or 32,900 ha of cropped
area: the health of the rural population would be improved by the
construction of about 13,000 drinking water wells; soil erosion provention
and moisture retention measures would benefit about 10,000 ha of arable and
non-arable land; and agricultural production would be improved by providing
quality seeds and seedlings and improved mall livestock. The project would
help to alleviate poverty in the tribal area. Specifically, it would benefit
about 3.7 million people by directly increasing their average annual net
incom from farming alone by about 70% from Rs. 1,200 to 2,050.1/ In
addition, considerable seasonal and non-farm employment would be generated
through the road and irrigation infrastructure provided under the project.
As a result of increased cropping intensity, higher yields, and forestry
activities, annual employment in the project areas would increase by about
2.25 million man-days at full development.2/ The project would also introduce
an integrated management system in planning and implementation, promote user
group and NGO involvement in the development process, and sensitize people to
environmental issues.
3.40  production andi Mar  maia. The project would increase the production of
food crops (rice, maize, wheat, vegetables, oilseeds and pulses), and fruits.
The bulk of the incremental food-grain production would be from minor
irrigation schemes including both new and rehabilitated schemes, dug wells
and water harvesting tanks.
3.41 Projected yield levels under the project, presented below, are
conservative and attainable.
PE=sent Yields 3/    Future Yields with Projegt
(tons per ha)              (tons per ha)
Maize               1.2                         2.2
Wheat               -                           2.5
Paddy               1.5                         2.4
Peas                -                           8.0
Mustard             0.5                          0.8
Potato              -                          25 0
1/ Based on average farm size (0.4 ha) of majority (600) of area farmers.
2/ Excludes direct employment in project works.
3/ It was *asumed that present yields would not change in the without-project
situation because there are no data to illustrate a declining or increasing trend.



-24-
Vegetable           -                          12 0
(winter)
Vegetables          -                          15 0
(sum er)
3 42   With irrigation, the cropping intensity would improv, by about 30%.
Assuming the above conservative crop yields, the project would increase the
production of wheat, maize and rice by 14,000; 2,800 and 19,000 tons,
respectively, at full development--about 10 years from the start of the
project. Incremental vegetable production in the project area is expected to
reach about 56,000 tons. Crop and farm budgets under the present situation
and with improved irrigation intensity, presented in Annex 5, were used in
th computation of incremental value of production. As a result of the
watershed treatment component, a variety of silvi-pasture/horticultural
products would increase including timber (9,000 m3), fuelwood (52,000 tons),
poles (936,000), fodder (13,000 tons) and fruit (4,400 tons).
3.43 The tribal people in the project area currently have barely enough food
for subsistence mainly due to the weak resource base including a poor
agricultural technology base. Therefore most of the incremental production
would be absorbed on the farm and the remaining production would be sold in
neighboring markets which would now be more accessible with improvement in
rural roads. Disposing the surplus production, mainly for fruit and
vegetables, would not cause any problem because of well-established existing
markets.
Imct on Wnmen
3.44 The productive role of women varies significantly in the project area
depending on the economic status of each family in the village. The vast
majority of women do a significant amount of manual work including road
construction, fuelwood collection, marketing farm produce and household
chores. Therefore, investments under the project such as improvement in the
infrastructure (rural roads and drinking water) and fuelwood production from
treated watersheds would benefit these women. The involvement of women
beneficiaries in the planning process of the project, including selection of
activities and their location, would give women an opportunity to express
their views on those issues that affect them most. Also, women in the
project area would Save traveling time to the market and time spent in
collecting water for the family which could be deployed for other productive
purposes. Women would also benefit from increased incomes in small livestock
production. In general, women laborers would benefit from significantly
enhanced mployment opportunities.
3.45 Full cost recovery from beneficiaries for all activities would not be
feasible under this project because of the present high incidence of poverty
and the extent of subsidies currently operating in the project area. Some
investmexlts such as those for the treatment of catchment areas for dams and
water harvesting tanks for minor irrigation schemes protect the environment
which has long-term benefits to farmers in the command area as well as to the
economy as a whole. Thus, it is not possible to identify precisely all
Individual beneficiaries and recover costs. However, because GOB's budgetary



-25-
resources are constrained and would not be abl, to onsure sustainability of
investments in the project area, some amount of cost recovery would be
introduced through agreed arrangements for sharing costs and benefits between
OB and beneficiaries.
3.46 During the construction period, beneficiaries organized into water
users associations or individual farmers would contribute at least 20% of the
investment cost of a given irrigation scheme, water harvesting tank or dug
well. This contribution could be direct cash payment or in-kind (e.g.,
labor). After the construction phase, beneficiaries would cover the full
cost of operation and maintenance of the irrigation system. In the case of
di4nkinew vat-r teeliti.., the cost of maintenance of wello would be
transferred to village panchayats progressively. During the first three
years of the project, *pares would be provided by GOB and village panchayats
would cover the labor cost. Thereafter, the support from GOB would be phased
out in two years.  As for the cost of w         r   treatmet, beneficiaries
would contribute about 50% of the labor cost in-kind, and would be entitled
to share the benefits of the treatod watershed up to 50* of forestry products
(poles and timber) and 100% of the grasses from non-arable lands and forests.
A Cost and Benefit sharing Matrix for Watershed Treatment is presented in
MAnnex 8n
Annoex S.wsati ioin   ha n                                 wudi=ajn
3.47 Incremental income from project investments would justify such cost
recoveries. Because beneficiaries would be involved in the project planning
process including selection of activities and their location and would own
and operate some of these assets, they would have incentive to collect user
charges from their fellow villagers for the benefit of extending the
usefulness of their assets.
R   c Analysi
3 48  Individual rates of return for the Minor Irrigation, Rural Roads, and
Watershed Treatment components and for the project as a whole were estimated.
The economic life of the project was assumed to be 30 years because of the
types of the investments involved. Evaluation was not done for the
agricultural component because of its pilot nature, and its total investment
concerned is relatively small compared with other components. Also, no
evaluation was done for the drinking water component because of difficulties
in quantifying associated benefits. The Economic and Financial analyses are
presented In Annex S.
3.49 MinoB I- ation and Drainag .enefits were estimated on the basis of
incremntal production of maize, wheat, paddy, pulses and oilseeds. Economic
prices (constant 1992) for these crops were derived from the latest World
Bank Commodity Price Projections issued May 1992. Given the projected
stagnation in foodgrain production, India was assumed to be a marginal net
importer. Therefore import parity prices, after adjusting for port handling
and local transport, were used in the analysis. Prices used are presented in
Annex 5 (Tables 7 and 8). Irrigation facilities would also support summer
and winter production of vegetables whose marketing would be enabled by the
project road network. -



-26-
3.50 EaL2Q.4R.  Denefits of this componont include reduction of vehicle
operating costs and value of incremental portage and labor resulting from
saved travel time on upgraded roads. Unquantifiable benefits from roads
would include: increased incidence of literacy with greater access to
schools, accessibility to medical and health care facilities, accessibility
to post offices and mini-banks, and employment opportunities in road
construction and maintenance.
3.51  Watgershad T1 &tM-". As a result of soil and moisture conservation
initiatives encouraged under the project, crop production on about 8,900 crop
ha of dryland would increase. The project would also enable production of
citrus, mango, and guava on about 500 ha, readily marketable via project
roads. In addition, in non-arable lands, farm forestry, silvipasture, and
mixed afforestation activities would be established on about 750 ha.
3.52 Project economic costs have been derived from detailed cost tables
(summarized in Annex 5, Tables 1-5), excluding taxes and price contingencies.
After the implementation period, recurrent costs were maintained at a
constant level for the economic life of the project. Vehicle. and machinery
associated with road maintenance and watershed treatment were assumed
replaced every five years. Because rural roads yield benefits to sectors
other than agriculture which could not be estimated, only one-half of the
cost of road construction and maintenance was included in the economic
evaluation. On-farm production costs were derived from crop budgets (Annex
5, Table 14-23), with assumed conservative and gradual yield increases and
adoption of improved farming practices as a result of availability of
production inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides. All local costs have
been converted to border values by using a standard conversion factor of 0.8.
Rates of return (ERR) for irrigation, roads and watershed components were
estimated to be 13%, 21S and 13%, respectively. The ERR for the project as a
whole was estimated to be 17S, which is a weighted average of the three
individual components' ERRs. The net present worth (NPW) (discounted at the
opportunity cost of capital estimated to be 12%) of the project is estimated
to be Rs. 429 million (US$ 16.5 million).
3.53 sengitivity Analvmes. Tests were performed on the ERR of the project
as a whole. Cost overruns and delays in accrued incremental benefits could
occur, notwithstanding built-in safeguards in the project. Certain
assumptions were introduced in the analysis and sensitivity tests performed.
Results are summarized below:
Tent Variat iEM                                            M
(Rs.M)
Base Case                                    17%          429
Benefits down 10%                            15%          277
Benefits down 15%                            14%          202
Costs up 10%                                 15%          302
Benefits lagged 2 years                      13%          122
Benefits down 0l and Costs up 10           14%          169
3.54   The overall project ERR is reasonably robust to increases in costs and
reductions in benefits. Nevertheless, special arrangements, such as
identification and preparation of the first year program, including their



-27-
rotroactive financing, have been made to accelerato start-up activities for
the project to minimizo implementation delays.
3.55   Switching vaLue taemm show that projoct costs would have to increase
by more than 39% or benefits have to drop by more than 28% for the NPW to
fall to zero or for the ERR to fall to 12%. This is unlikely to happen in
the projoct because of the intensive preparation and detailed work in
ostimating the cost of individual items. As for benefits, conservative
stimates of yields have beon used in the *valuation.
3.56   Rik.. The weak management of government departments and poor
budgetary support, which have been common problems for Bank-assisted projects
in Bihar, pose a risk to implementation of the proposed project. To minimize
the risk, the project is designed to be managed with minimal government
involvement. To bring about project ownership by tho poople, usor groups
would be actively involved in project planning, implementation, evaluation
and maintenance of project facilities. All project activities would be
guided by various committees setup at different levels with representatives
from local bodies/NGOs. Sensitizing project officials to the necessity of
people's involvement would be part of this main approach. Beneficiaries
through water users associations and village panchayats would specifically
assume ownership of assets and responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of the irrigation and drinking water facilities. Before these
proposals go forward, their clearance would have to be approved by
beneficiaries. Other mitigatory measures inc:ude: the advanced state of
preparation of the project, a mid-term review, and an extensive monitoring
and feedback system built into the project. With GOB support, and with built-
in safeguards for sustaining operations such as beneficiary involvement, the
project has a good chance of succeeding.
IV.             NO R
4.1   During negotiations the following agreements were obtained that GOB
would:
(a)   make adequate provision in its budget to cover recurrent costs of
implementing line departments/agencies during the implementation
period (para 2.15).
(b) establish a Project Implementation Unit and delegate both
administrative and financial powers to the Regional Development
Counissioner, Ranchi who would be the Chief Executive of the
project to ensure proper implementation of activities supported by
the project and be accountable. The government would also
minimize staff transfers (para 3.5 and 3.6).
(c)   make adequate arrangements for land acquisition and resettlement
and rehabilitation of affected persons by project investments,
satisfactory to the Association (para 3.9).
(d)   cause Project implementing departments/agencies to maintain
separate accounts for all components supported under the project,
and proposed audit arrangements (para 3.11) will be followed.



-28-
(e) cause implementing department/agencies' staff to interact with
beneficiaries and agree on the choice and location of activities
supported by tho project (para 3.17).
(f)   recruit intornationally recognized consultants to assist
implementing departmonts/agencies in their day to day activities
(para 3.22).
(g) transfer ownership and reosponsibility for operation and
maintenance of irrigation schemes to panchayato and water usors
associations during the project period (para 3.25).
(h)   refrain from implementing minor irrigation programs that are
highly subsidized in the slected blocks implementing similar
schemes supported by the credit (para 3.27).
(i)   transfer the responsibility for repair and maintonance of drinking
water facilities to panchayato and villages as soon as the
construction is completed (para 3.31).
(j) implement tho criteria for selocting roads for construction and
rehabilitation under the project (para 3.33).
(k)   carry-out a mid-term review through independent consultants in the
third year of the project and would implement recomaendations of
the review (para 3.36).
(1)   introduce cost recovery to cover operation and maintenance of
facilities created by the project (para 3.46).
rdition of R           am
4.2  Establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (para 3.6) and
appointment of consultants to prepare a training program for PIU staff and an
appropriate monitoring and evaluation system and for-conducting a base line
social survey (para 3.19) are conditions of effectiveness.
6nditien of nigbur.mmnt
4 3   Disbursement of credit proceeds for rural road maintenance would be
conditional to preparation of a road maintenance policy and an implementation
plan acceptable to the Association (para 3.34).
4.4 With the above assurances and agreements, the project would be suitable
for an IDA credit of SDR 80.7 million (US$ 117.0 million equivalent) on
standard terms with 35 years maturity.



JUlIA
Summary Amesut. by Warw
Total. I.eIedgllt hgge_1e                                     Total. Iavdu     Cd101bI.ms
IM/i   3"9/94            s *6/06   13/07            TSUI          /    16                   1         1 3         Tit
1. _NVST        cOmTS
A. Civil Esih                   481.5  404631.4  715709.1  70564.7  511428.6 3644.2    144.1   1 .    2 .l   246.3   1410.6  16.
S. VAtorsd Trtoemet               8140.*    7227.8    945.6   116U5.2   12130.5   44087.6    1U0.0         2U6.*      514.0     36.4      S9.1    1464.5
C. 11umorS  Equipment            S00165.1   1112.2    5014.0    1401.3    S15.5   49362.0       111.0       3.4       17.1       47.8      47.     12M.1
D. Vhiceks                       n21.    17s3a.6       741.8       0.0        0.0   531.2        336.5     e07.n       24.7       0.0       0.0    141.6
I. To_hleal A *siet_m          10666_.2  120625.1  12476.6  10664.0 .    7416.3  5"61.7        4179.1    4366.0    4166.3    35.0    ff00.5   133.5
F. Stiss                          5446.0    496.1   s000.0    313.0   10127.8   87144.6          1.5       I7.3       30.       810.5      16      12.2
0. Troisie                       16029.6   16076.4   17175.5   14556.4   15006.3   I2.           51.0      574.2      572.4     466.0     46.0      163.
H. A1l_l                          1l.1.      1539.7    171.0      112.0     132.5    1331.6       46.5       6.7        5.7       5.        0.0      06.5
I. Trials                          576.6     621.7     676.6     72.6       M4.3    un.4          292       n.s       n.2        25..4     2.3      1 U4.1
Total  _neu      om             6161*7.0  072133.2  6071r07.0   0O6.1  696.4 8742n.3            a6.1   24600m.       656.0   i606.    125u.3    1036.5
I
St. TAJM         PR
S. Vehicle Op. a 11|1  _   *m     4I 11.0    RN$.$     MG1       SM.90    NOYA    VM sS          10 r       t10.  I*I IS.$      2@.9      t ".9    Jan.$
C. a*bw  lmersomm. Op. C"         *  .7   13101.1  12042i 0   I1 U U    s nc 21     Mas2  ,    man          19 .4     4 n1.4    404.1     Mr.       12417.1
TOtrl hEMCUIff COSTS             30024.6   20390.4   22605.1   26490.7   36199.4  120966.5       618.       710.2     7M1.6     954.7    1100.0    4062.1  q
Total FROJECT COSTS             6126n.5  6M3.0   0s3u.1  664997.0  754761.7 56962127.          24202.4   24735.1   M0110.7   30161.2   22961.3  182160.4
Voles Scaed by 1000.0 24/0/13 n 2s16
I! 



Pewoflea Cuspeaufl by Toot
Totl Ioludia  Coustlmgsaol                                      Total. lmleiu d gtla..fln
1392/0    198/4   19114/9    19o,o        ImpI        rt.i       is"      am9"       1164/16   I11*/1   1*6/          Total
A. AUIGIJJIAUL   VOEf1Wf           64644.1   N67.6   13152.6   3043.5   80668.4  10471.4            243.8       M1o.7      36.4      00.1       W.6      nn.76
3.  ADIUKW WATE                   176622.4  120114.0  1M111.2          6.7     ".0  411064.0         04.7    41.6    467.6            10.2       0.7   158.1
C. NIM  DIMOTRIN                   fn11.o  11158.0  27143.5  43005.3   36010.4  1801185.2             3.0    483.4       S0.0   1464.3   12062.3   42M.4
S. MUMtL ROADS                     eUa.s    6791.9  460976.8  440404.6  804575.5 101010.8   U1          .1   131.1    16.6   14.5    517.0   6M.
E. POJICT  WL 1TATIN                3151.1    3270.7   Ism.$    1167.1   12137.5   t6185.0           U7.4       68.1      410.1      416.0     an.$    19ti
TOtal PSIECTS caS                  6161.8   61568.6  608512.1 _497.0  7847.7 86117.0    4240.4   14786.1 _10.7   810161.1                         1.0  1811.4
Valves Sealed by 1400.01246136A 1217h
b@_ _|S lt _t _   w.ar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'a
C1
I



IUKA
aim LDWt     DEVLPUNT POJECT
Summary Accoofto Cost 5my
NS=                             USWO                           X Totel
X F.rigm       BOOs
Locl   Foreiga      Total       Ll   Forlp         Toa       Es           Co
I. IIIVSIT COSTS
A. Civil IWo                  20901.4  1100181.  2200175.2       808.7   481.   846.0               5.0       M.2I
S.  atrshld Tre_oot             8011.6    1565.9   81117.5        1156.9    61.0   129.9            5.0        1.1
C. Machiry VaW Equipt           86707.7    2087.2   40745.0       1465.6    7n.4   1567.1           5.0       1.4
0. Vehles                       84192.5    1757.5  15650.0        1815.1     67.6   1862.7          4.9        1.2
E. Toeheical Asistamos         100860.0  801060.0  401400.0       8859.6  11576.6  15486.5         75.0      u1.9
F. Stdis                        29500.0       0.0   29600.0       1184.6      0.0   1184.6          0.0       1.0
0. Treailng                     5567.4    1862.0   57240.4        2149.2     52.4   2201.6          2.4       2.0
M. Asimos                        1528.0       0.0    1528.0         56.6      0.0    56.6           0.0       0.1
I. Trials                        2875.0     125.0    2500.0         91.8      4.6    90.2           5.0       0.1
Total IYBIMT COST             23019.7  4 1.4 2900651.1           91650.6  14074.8 107725.0         14.9        =.0
It.  1CAUr COM
A. Salrier                       6562.5       0.0    $662.5        82s.S      0.0    82s.8          0.0       0.8
S. Vehicle Op. & Maintemanc     21720.4    5480.1    7m10.5         5.4    200.6   1044.2          20.0       0.9
C. Otbor Incrmme. Op. Cots      47n22.2    5215.6   5256S.0       1612.4    201.4   2018.8         10.0       1.6
Total £CU0ENT COSTS            7"406.1   10066.9   6071.0         2977.1    410.2   8867.$         12.1       8.0
Total BASELIHE COSTS          2460624.6  421697.8 2666922.1      94627.9  16484.5 111112.4         14.6      100.0
Physlcal Conting oeiel      289748.2   42664.0  262427.2       9220.9   1641.7  10 62.6         15.1        9.6
Pries Contlag eeis          619608.0  106915.2  728866.2       6604.4   1601.1  10206.4          16.7       9.2
Total PROJECTS COST           88t1671.1  57656.5 89217.6    112461.1  19727.8 182180.4             14.9      119.0
Valso Scaled by 1000.0 -  24/6/1M   12:16
M _



SIWI TUW A
a3m  nLanoA IEVULIPUUI  ROJIECT
Sommry h....t by Project Cempoesab
AIOICULTU                                                          P* IalI            Prie
RAL               1110                POJECT                   C|_o1gie          Csstiagmel.
oEVEOU   ORDII  RIMIATRO   RtAL   IMLEENT
NT     SAlEM        M       Rm        £T10N      ToITl    X          Mmst  X          Amt
1. DWETUET COTS
A. Clivl Works                  44461.2  316664.0  746245.0 1065600.0    5100.0 220017 .2      10.0  220017.5   21.6  566141.5
B. Watersd Treatmeta             1717.5       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   81717.5      10.0    8171.?    2.1    9140.6
C. Maclhnry aWd Equpat           6555.0   13600.0    8030.0   10254.0    800.0   40745.0       10.0    4074.5    11.1    4542.5
0. Vehicles                     15975.0   4100.0   3000.0   7075.0        600.0   85950.0       0.2      60.0     9.1    1266.2
E. Troacal AsI   e..o 0.0                     0.0  15"50O.0  206400.0       0.0  401400.0      10.0   40140.0    23.0  02411.7
F. Studies                          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   29500.0   29500.0       0.0       0.0    25.9    7644.6
O. Trainng                      17064.4    8000.0    251.0   66625.0    800.0   67240.4        10.0    7124.0   218.9   1302.4
H. Animls                        1521.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    1528.0      10.0     152.8    18.6     206.8
D. Trlels                       2100.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   2150.0       10.0     260.0    25.1    616.4
Tutal INVESTNDIT CO5TS         121101.1  889364.0  097812.0 1406154.0   8000.0 2600651.1       9.6  17620.1    25.0  650K9i.0
ID. RIOERllUE  C05TS 
A. Salaries                       06.5        0.0       0.0       0.0    6600.0    6661.5      10.0     656.2    25.0   2110.6
O. Vehicle Op. A malnteaao       94815.5    1440.0   6100.0   10115.0       0.0   17150.5      10.0    2715.0   27.4    7440.0
C. OteWr Incrome. Op. Cost.     15206.0    600.0   16000.0   6050.0   2100.0   52356.0         10.0    528.6    27.0   14541.4
Total RECIMRET COSTS            87706.0    2040.0   24100.0   16165.0    60.0  u8071.0         10.0   6o67.1    27.4   24116.2
Total cASELINE COSTS            159607.1  341404.0  921092.0 1422819.0   34000.0 281922.1       *.6  22417.2    25.1  718360.2
Py sical Conetlgencles         14358.2    87*0.4   91369.2  141524.4    1450.0  262427.2
Price Contlmgecles            8611.0   46020.6  209074.0  346876.9   10680.9  723666.2        *.0   64622.1
Totl PROJECT COSTS            214671.4  422064.9 1802185.2 1910220.5   56185.9 8S96217.6        0.9  *47249.4    10.6  72806.2
Texas                          9779.6    9817.7   20071.3  U3136.9      568.8   70364.5       0.0    6660.1
Forelga Excb ng18670.1   21291.4  196856.1  844521.1                    699.6  57654.5        9.1   52242.8
Values Sealed by 1000.0 24/0/1392 12sl1
a!IX.
*



11A
SIIM  PLETEA  OEVELOPUUT PROJECT
PrOJect Coot SUMMasY
U Foreip   _ se
Local   Foreign     Total       Local  Forein    TotAl      Eseag.       Cos"
A * AIRICIMUAL DEELVOAPT       149015.8   10421.3  1i9607.1       5784.1    400.0   6184.9          6.5       5.5
a * OICNS2 WAE                  824067.3   1786.2  841404.0       12464.9    666.0  l1810.9          5.1      11.i
C . MIoR MICATION               7792M.4  142406.6  921092.0       29072.4    477.8  8449.7          15.5      U1.0
* . RItAL ROWM                 1164408.8  237915.7  1422810.0     44784.7  0910.9  U4704.0          18.1      49.2
E . POJECT IWETtiON              48461.0     515.0   44000.0       16S1.7     20.0   1628.           1.2       1.5
Total UAIULIIS COST             2460024.8  426507.8  26662.1       W46.9  16.5  11112.4              14.8      100.0
Pbtz sl Contingencie          26748.2   436.0  262427.2           220.9  10417  102.6             1.1         9.
Pries Cmttmgna.lsO            491606.0  1062185.2  7286660.2     9060.4   261.1  10606.           15.7        9.2
Toal PR1OJECtS COST             8826671.1  576546.5 836217.6   112460.1  19727.8  182160.4           14.9      119.0
Val. tcaled by 1000.0 - 24/6/1901 12.16
Ig 
1* 



-34-
Annx 2
BIHAR PLYTRATTAU DE         P L JRX C
SnhAdula of D1sburnAmeuIi
mA  ftU   m
andlnsbrbrr              ~~~Bi-Annual              Cumulative 
----------- US$ million------
EX2
First                               0.0                        0.0            0
Second                               5.0                       5.0            4
EF9
First                                4.0                       9.0            8
Second                               7.0                      16.0           14
First                                7.0                      23.0           20
Second                               6.0                      29.0           25
First                               14.0                      43.0           37
Second                              14.0                      57.0           49
First                               13.0                      70.0           60
Second                             20.0                       90.0           77
EM
First                               10.0                     100.0           85
Second                              17.0                     117.0          100



-35-
Attachment I
Pagce  of 7
IDA
BIHAR PLATRAU DfRLOPM   PROJRCT
Rural Roads Component
Term of Reference for Technical AgmiatAnne for
Contract upervi sion
L. BACKGROtUN
1.   India has received a loan/credit from the World Bank/IDA on behalf of the
State of Bihar for the Bihar Plateau Development Project (BPDP), covering
integrated developments in the sectors of agriculture, irrigation, drinking water
and roads. The project area is located in the regions of Chotanagpur and Santhal
Parganas, sub-divided into five and three districts respectively. Each district
is further divided into administrative blocks. The project covers 67 blocks in
all, with a predominantly tribal (Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes)
population. The rural road component of the project comprises construction of
about 1,200 km of roads and a few bridges in these 67 blocks. The alignment of
the roads generally follows the existing fair weather cart-tracks/trails. The
construction work for roads would be undertaken in three phases and completed in
a five-year period. The program for the first year covers 222 km of roads and 12
major bridges. The identification and project preparation of the next two phases
is being done.
2.    The roads would be constructed to standards for rural roads as laid down in
Indian Roads Congress publications subject to certain specific parameters
prescribed in the DPR. The roads would be constructed with soil embankments
topped by a bedding of granular material ('murum'), including a 10 cm metalling.
The major bridges would generally be single-lane bridges. The project also
provides for maintenance of these roads during the project period.
3.    The road works are divided into separate contract packages, each costing
about Rs. 20 to 70 million and covering roads in one or two (adjoining) blocks.
There are four such packages in the first set of contracts and the next two may
have 10 to 15 contracts each. The works are proposed to be awarded on LCB basis
and standard bidding documents are to be adopted in accordance with the World
Bank guidelines. Heretofore, such road contracts were supervised by the PWD
organization of the State, namely, the Rural Engineering Organization (REO) which
handles rural roads. The Bihar State has already agreed to the supervision by
independent international consultants for one road work and a proof consultant
for a bridge work under another State Roads Project undertaken with assistance of
the WB. The supervision of the rural road works under the BPDP is also proposed
to be entrusted to a suitable international consultant who will be engaged for
the project (rural roads component) as a whole with an arrangement that the REO
engineers may be seconded to work under the directions of the consultant whose



-36-
Annex 3
A&ttachmet I
Pace 2 2f 7
manpower input will normally comprise the key managerial and engineering
specialists.
11_ OBRJECTIVES
4.    The objectives of introducing the contract supervision by consultants are
three fold:
a)    to demonstrate the efficacy of contract supervision by external
agencies with expertise in this field of work;
b)    to demonstrate the efficacy of maintenance management for the project
roads after their completion and till the close of the project; and
c)    to promote technology transfer through joint venture between the
consultants and the REO on one hand and between the expatriate
consultants and local firms on the other so as to enhance the
capabilities of REO and local firms to undertike similar work in
future.
5.    The consultant will have overall responsibility for the job as the
'Engineer' under the supervision of the Chief Engineer, REO and administer the
contract agreement with the different contractors day-to-day. The tenders for
works will be invited by CE, REO, Ranchi or his superintending engineer. The
tenders will be evaluated and awarded by REO by entering into agreements with
respective contractors. Supervision consultants will prepare an independent
evaluation report for the perusal of REO, before the evaluation of proposals by
REO is finalized.
III. POWERS
6.    Because of the State REO's unfamiliarity with working with consultants on
contract supervision, and the present administrative difficulties in delegating
all supervisory authority, the consultant should be aware that under Clause 2
(power and duties of Engineer) of the FIDIC Conditions of Contract, the Engineer
shall obtain the specific approval of the Employer in writing (i.e., from CE,
REO, Ranchi) before taking any of the following actions specified in Part 1.
a)    approving sublotting of any part of Works under Clause 4 of Part 1;
b)   certifying additional sums under Sub-clause 5(2) of Part 1;
c)    certifying additional cost under Clause 12 of Part 1; (which would
increase the contract sum by more than 5);
d)    ordering suspension of the works under Clause 40 of Part 1;
*)    determining an extension of time under Clause 44 of Part 1;
f)    arranging the payments of liquidated damages for delay under Clause
47 of Part 1;



-37-
Annex 3
Attaschme nt
g)    issuing a variation order under Clause 51 of Part 1;
h)    fixing rates of prices under Clause 52 of Part 1; and
i)    making needed arrangements pertaining to the execution of the
contract in terms of Special Risks under Clause 65 of Part 1.
Moreover, the employor would require prior  =onsultation before the Engineer
orders any tests under Sub-clause 36(4) of Part 1.
IV. DEFINIIDION5
Contractor         is the person or firm whose tender for respective works under
BPDP is accepted by GOB and the contract is signed. It covers
all the road/bridge contracts under the project.
Contract           is the contract entered into between the State of Bihar and the
Contractor for the execution of project road/bridge works.
Works             means the economic assets to be constructed in accordance with
the Contract.  The term 'economic asset' is deemed to include
any temporary structures or facilities required for that
purpose, borrow pits and quarries.
Agreement         means the Agreement between the Government of Bihar (GOB) and
the Consultants for the engineering supervision of the
Contract.
Engineer          means the Consultant M/s.. appointed under the Agreement.
Engineer's        means the representative appointed by the engineer with the
Representative    consent of the Employer to supervise the Contract on site.
Employer          means the State of Bihar represented by the Chief Engineer,
REO, Ranchi.
RDC               is  the  authority designated  by  the  State  of  Bihar as
responsible for all matters pertaining to the Agreement and the
Contract on behalf of the Employer.
V.  SCOPE Or WoR
A.      antI. and Re onahlitiam of the Enaineer
7.    The duties of the Engineer are to supervise the works and to approve the
materials and workmanship of the works in cooperation and consultation with the
Employor, He shall have no authority to relieve the Contractor of any of his
duties or obligations under the Contract, nor to order any work entailing delays
or any extra payment by the employer.
8.    Accordingly, and subject to the prior approval of the Employer for actions
listed in Para 3 above, the principal responsibilities of the Engineer shall be:



-38-
Anrn-x 3
Attachment I
PaQ9 d of 7
i)    to issue the order to the Contractor to commence;
ii)   to explain and/or adjust ambiguities and/or discrepancies in the
Contract Documents and to provide assistance to the Employer in the
settlement of disputes with the Contractor;
iii) to review and verify the design of the contract works, to approve the
Contractor's working drawings and, if necessary, to issue further
drawings and/or to give instructions to the Contractor;
iv)   to approve data for the setting out of work;
v)    to approve or to disapprove the Contractor's superintendence, key
personnel and/or construction program, land to be occupied by the
Contractor, materials and/or sources of materials;
vi)   as required to order special tests of materials and completed works
and/or removal and substitution of improper materials and/or of work;
vii) to control and appraise the progress of the works, to order the
suspension of Works and to authorize extensions of the period for
completion of the Works;
viii) to issue variation orders, to evaluate variations, to fix rates
unpriced work and/or to make recommendations to the Employer
regarding alternatives;
ix)   to issue interim certificates for payment to the Contractor on the
basis of measured work items and to certify the completion of the
works or parts thereof; the interim and final measurements of work
recorded by the Engineer's representative shall be subject to a
percentage check by the employer-designated representative(s);
x)    to inspect the works periodically, as well as during and after the
Maintenance Period and to issue the Maintenance Certificates after
the rectification by the Contractor of possible defects;
xi)   to carry out generally all the duties of the Engineer as specified in
the Contract within the limitations specified above;
xii) to advise the Employer on all matters relating to claims from the
Contractor and to make recommendations thereon, including the
possible recourse to arbitration; and
xiii) to prepare a maintenance manual for the project roads for guidance of
REO in carrying out future maintenance of these roads and bridges.
B*  flutima and ftamnonpibilitan of the    nerI.   RaRresentative and him_.tAU
9.    The duties of the Engineer's Representative and his staff are under the
overall control of the Engineer, to supervise construction of the Works, and to



-39-
Ann-x 3
Attachment I
Ran 5 anLI
test or order to test and *xamine any, materials to be used or workmanship
*mployed in connection with the Works. He shall have no authority to relieve the
Contractor of any of his duties or obligations under the Contract, nor to order
any work involving delay or any extra payment by the Employer, nor to make any
variation of or in the works which in aggregate, exceed the contract sum by more
than 5%.
10.   The principal responsibilities of the Engineer's Representative shall be as
follows:
i)    to inspect the performance of the Works with regard to workmanship
and compliance with tho specifications and to order, to supervise or
perform tests on materials and/or work and to approve or disapprove
the Contractor's plant and equipment;
ii)   to order, if required, the uncovering of completed work and/or the
removal and substitution of improper materials and/or work;
iii)  to check systematically the progress of the Works and to order the
initiation of certain work which is part of the Contract;
iv)   to examine and attend the measurement of any work which is about to
be covered up or put out of view before permanent work is placed
thereon and/or to examine and attend the measurement of the completed
works in the prescribed form;
v)    to check the Contractor's accounts,  invoices,  claims and other
statements with respect to arithmetical errors and compliance with
the Contract and, if required, to make corrections thereof;
vi)   to supervise the Contractor in all matters concerning safety and care
of the works and, if required, to request from the Contractor the
necessary lights, guards, fencing and watching;
vii)  to direct the Contractor to carry out all such work or to do all such
things as may be necessary in the opinion of the Engineer's
representative to avoid or to reduce the risk in case of any
emergency affecting the safety of life or of the Works or of
adjoining property and to advise the Employer thereof as soon
thereafter as is reasonably practicable';
viii) the maintenance of a day-to-day project diary, which shall record all
events pertaining to the administration of the Contract, requests
from and orders given to the Contractor, and any other information
which may at a later date be of assistance in resolving queries which
may arise concerning execution of the Works;
ix)   to carry out such duties under the terms of the Contract as may from
time to time be delegated in writing by the Engineer; and
x)    to  verify and  correct  the as-built  drawings  supplied by  the
Contractor. The Engineer shall furnish the Employer with a full list



-40-
AnneN 3
Attachment I
Pace 6 of 7
of all the responsibilities he will delegate to the Engineer's
Representative for supervision of the Contract in accordance with the
Agreement.
VT. WORKINT ARRANWaMENM=
11. The REO will depute the required number of engineers at various levels to
work under the control of the consultant on various sites and the consultant will
pay their remuneration (equal to salaries paid by GOB plus 20 percent deputation
allowance, or the salary prescribed by the consultant, whichever is higher)
regularly, including travelling allowances to them directly, and to GOB their
pension and gratuity contributions for the period of deputation.
12.   The consultant can obtain a panel of names from CE, REO to select his team
and he will have powers to seek replacements from time to time on reasonable
grounds. If CE, REO fails to provide substitutes in their place within 30 days
of demand by the consultant, the latter will be free to engage his own local
engineers in those positions with or without the assistance of his associate
local consulting firm, if any.
13.   The consultant shall have to record measurements of work from time to time
in the form prescribed by CE, REO and submit bills for passing to the Executive
Engineer concerned of REO. The Executive Engineer will, after physically
checking at least 5 percent of the measurements on site and audit, make payment
of the bill to the contractor under intimation to the consultant.
14.   The consultant will also forward his comments on remarks, if any, taken on
these works by the vigilance unit of GOB within 30 days of their receipt.
VITI. ADDITIONAL SERVICES
15.   As services additional to those specified above, the Engineer shall, if so
requested by the Employer, provide any of the services specified below:
a)    preparation of reports or additional contract documents for
consideration of proposals for the carrying out of additional work;
b)    carrying out work consequent upon any assignment of the Contract;
c)    advising the Employer and carrying out work following the appeal to
arbitration or litigation relating to the Works; and
d)    any other specialist services by the Engineer or other specialists as
may be agreed upon.
16.   All additional services other than minor extras without materially
affecting the scope of work will be authorized by the Employer at rates or on a
man-month basis and under conditions to be mutually agreed.



-41-
Anne
Attcmn 1
Paa 7 of 7
VIII- BEPORT9 UND DOCUMENTS
17.   The Engineer shall furnish to the Employer the following reports and
documents in the number of copies stated. All reports and documents shall be in
English.
A. Progreag Reports (10 co2iess
18.   The Engineer shall submit monthly Progress Reports to the Employer which
shall include minutes of site meetings with the Contractor which the Engineer's
Representative has convened, commencing at the end of the month following the
date of award of the contract for construction. The reports shall also cover
physical and financial progress, quality control aspects including analysis of
test results, response to REO's remarks, etc. After the issue of the Completion
Certificate, these reports shall be submitted at quarterly intervals until the
end of the Maintenance Period.
B.  Cc=letion Renort  20 go2ies)
19.   The Engineer shall submit a Completion Report at the time of final
certification.



-42-
Annex 2
Attachment 2
UTHR LA''RU D'J~LPMRNT PROJRCTP
Y.?<m  of Reference fr T.hical AmniaAe 
glannino &Dtailedi Rnainer
-  AC!KCROnDM
1.    The Governament of India has received a Credit from the World Bank/IDA on
behalf of the State of Bihar for the Bihar Plateau Development Project (BPDP),
covering integrated development in the agriculture, irrigation, drinking water
and roads sectors. The project area is located in the Chotanagpur and Santhal
Pargamas regions, sub-divided into five and three districts respectively.
Each district is further divided into administrative blocks. The project
covers 67 blocks in all, with a predominantly tribal (Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes) population. The rural road component of the projects
comprises of construction of about 1,200 km of roads and a few bridges. The
alignment of the roads generally follow the existing fair weather cart-
tracks/trails. The construction work for roads is to be taken up in three
phases and completed in a five-year period. The program to be taken up during
the first year covers 222 km of roads and 12 major bridges. The
identification and project preparation of the next two phases is being done.
2.    The roads would be constructed as per the standards for rural roads laid
down in Indian Roads Congress publications subject to certain spe:ific
parameters prescribed in the DPR. The roads are to be constructed with soil
embankments, topped by a bedding of granular material ('murum'), including a
10 cm metalling. Major bridges would generally be single-lane. The project
also provides for maintenance of these roads during the project period.
3.    The road works are divided into separate contract packages, each costing
about Rs. 10 to 20 million and covering roads in one or two (adjoining)
blocks. There are ten such packages in the first set of contracts and the
next two may have 15 to 25 contracts. The works are proposed to be awarded as
per LCD procedures and standard bidding documents are to be adopted in
accordance with the World Bank guidelines



-43-
AnnauL-
Pace 2 o 
IIT - 0RJRCTIVR
4.          The main objectives of this consultancy would be as follows:
a)    motivate REQ staff;
b)    provide overall technical guidance for the REO Staff in survey,
investigation, subsoil exploration, design of roads, cross
drainage works and Major Bridges included in the first years
program;
C)    monitor progress and in case it is not satisfactory, initiate
necessary corrective steps so costs adhere to the agreed schedule;'
d)    get the detail drawings of roads, culverts and bridges prepared
under their expert guidance by using the REQ staff to the maximum
extent and following IRC guidelines as amended by the World Bank
Experts for use on this project;
e)    prepare detailed estimates and project reports firming up
quantities and reviewing the rates;
f)    prepare LCB bidding documents for the road and bridge packages for
the Phase II/III program;
g)    get the documents prepared for processing of the land acquisition
cases for the works involved; and
h)    supervise preparation of road maps and other data for the blocks
so as to maintain the tempo of project preparation.
III. TIMING OF CONSULTANCY
5.    The Consultancy will be effective as soon as the Government of Bihar
finalizes the Consultants proposal.  The period of completion of the work will
be six months for preparation of detailed estimates and project reports. The
bidding documents should be prepared by the end of further two months.
IV. SCOPE OF WORK
6.              The assignment of the Consultant will be as follows:
i)    He will tackle about 222 kms of roads and cross drainage
structures and about 1000 meters of major bridge crossing
identified in the Phase II/III program;
ii)   advise the Super'ntending Engineer, REO, Ranchi, guide and
supervise the work of the survey divisions of REQ and RCD who will



-44-
Attachment 2
'                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 3 of 
be put on the job. The REO/RCD teams will carry out surveys of
road alignments, investigate bridges, cross drainage sites,
collect hydraulic data, subsoil investigations, material surveys
and prepare base maps etc;
iii) monitor the progress of the survey teams, and if at anytime that
the progress is not satisfactory, he will suggest the remedial
measures to insure timely completion -of the. job;
iv)   he will be responsible for the designs of roads, CD works and
bridges using the survey data obtained;
v)    prepare detailed drawings partly employing REO engineers and the
staff of the drawing office etc;.
vi)   review the schedule/market rates and prepare detailed estimates
and project reports six months of the date of comissioning;
vii)  ensure that REO prepares land Plan .nd schedules in respect of
lands needed for the project works;
viii) provide within 8 months of commissioning the bidding documents for
LCB packages, (by grouping of works in consultation with GOB)
based on the model document being used for the Andhra Pradesh
Cyclone Reconstruction Project and the Bank guidelines;
ix)   furnish the following documents:
a) Project Report: 25 copies
b) Plans & Estimates for each job: 15 copies
c) Drawings: Original Tracings
d) Bidding Documents: 5 copies
V.  RRVICES TO BR PROVIDED BY THE DRPARTMENT
7.    GOD will be responsible for the following:
i)    immediately setup field divisions under the SE, Advance Planning,
Ranchi and CE, REO, Ranchi;
ii)   Post technical personnel to man all vacant positions;
iii)  ensure that all survey instruments, laboratory equipment, boring
and drawing office equipment are in good working condition and are
available to the field units in the desired quantities;



-45-
Page J of 
iv)   ensure that the survey and consultants teams will have adequate
transport available throughout the period of consultancy;
v)    ensure that no assigned staff is changed without the consultants
prior approval;
vi)   provide office and temporary housing (suites in PWD Guest house ox
one or two fully furnished Government Quarters with One bedroom
per staff) to the consultant's staff throughout the period;
vii)  ensure that coordination with other Government/semi-government
Depts will be done by REO;
viii) make available data regarding quarries, quality and availability
of local materials, analysis of Schedule of rates etc.; and
ix)   CE, REO, Ranchi be fully responsible for the Schedule of project
preparation during the consultancy period.
VI. PAYMENT SCHRDULR
i)    On commissioning 10%.
ii)   15 days after start -- 30%.
iii) 30 days after start -- 30%.
iv)   Completion of DPRs, Estimates, drawings etc. -- 10%.
v)    On completion 20%.



-46-
Annex 3
ht*cbmsnt 3
UTHAR PLT.=    D PE     PROJRCT
Rural Roada C6nmp6tnonr
.ainina Prearam
1.    Bihar State suffers from an inadequacy of rural roads. Only 40% of villages
are connected to a road, and many rural areas are inaccessible, especially during
.the rains. This is particularly true in the project area where road densities
are less than 10 km per 100 km, compared with 21 km in the State and 46 km
nationally.
2.    The objective of the rural road component of the project is to improve
accessibility in the project area by: (a) constructing 1,200 km of hard crust
roads and supporting the construction of village roads linking to project roads;
(b) strengthening the Rural Engineering Organization (REO) and local NGOs with
training and technical assistance to improve rural road design and construction
methods; and (c) improving rural road maintenance capability.
3.    A previous attempt to increase the rural road network under the Bihar Rural
Road Project (BRRP) produced an impressive output, but was characterized by
inadequate design, poor construction and weak supervision, resulting in an
earlier than expected degradation of the roads. The problems with design and
construction encountered by BRRP were acerbated by inadequate road maintenance.
4.     In order to avoid these shortcomings it has been decided, through the
project, to introduce a new and innovative approach to the construction and
maintenance of rural roads in the project area. The project road component is
widespread and includes road construction in each of the 67 Blocks of the project
area. Roadworks will be packaged to combine roads in contiguous Blocks to form
contracts of a value sufficient to attract large road contractors. Consultant
services are to be provided for the survey, design and contract preparation. The
supervision of construction will be carried out by internationally recognized
consultants. Engineers, predominately from REO, will be assigned to work under
the consultants, both for design and contract supervision.
5.    The project will support maintenance by contributing to the funding of the
maintenance of project roads, and some associated roads, conditional on the GOB
producing an adequate rural road maintenance plan and funding policy. A national
consultant will be engaged to assist REO in reviewing existing maintenance
systems and developing the road maintenance policy and implementation plan.
Periodic maintenance will be carried out by contractors.



-47-
ADAL
At~tachment 3
Pae2 of 16
6.    The rural roads component of the project will be under the overall charge
of the Regional Development Commissioner (RDC), who will be responsib'e for
awarding contracts according to GOB regulations and World Bank tender procedures.
The project road component will be executed by REO, which will set up a Project
Coll.
7.    To enlarge the area of influence of the project roads, short village link
roads connecting to the project roads will be constructed by labor-intensive
methods at the panchayat level; this will be financed from GOl JRY funds and
supervised and assisted by NGOs. The project will support this construction by
mears of technical assistance to train the NGOs and by financing the necessary
culverts and bed-level roads.
DurAnt Tring ff
8.    The REO was created from the erstwhile Public Works Department and the
years of service of the current staff are not necessarily all in the planning,
design and construction of roads. Over half of the staff are in the last 10 years
of service prior to retirement. There has been no new intake of qualified staff
by REO since 1987, and before that the previous intake was in 1977. Many of these
engineers were unemployed for a number of years before obtaining employment with
GOB.
9.    Since they gained employment with the PWD these engineers have had little
opportunity for attending professional training programs. A few of these have
attended an orientation course organized by the Training, Testing and Research
Department (TTRD) of the Road Construction Department (RCD) in Patna, which is
the sole in-house training establishment available to REO. However, no such
training has been provided to engineers since 1987. There is no formal training
program for road maintenance.
10.  The training facilities at TTRD are not adequate; course material and
manuals are not available for inspection, classroom amenities are poor and the
department is not equipped with basic training aids or word processors and
printers. The TTRD has a laboratory, but the equipment has not been calibrated
for some years and much of it is unserviceable.
11.   Some engineers have attended refresher courses run by the Central Road
Research Establishment and National Institute for the Training of Highway
Engineers (NITHE), but the number of such engineers is negligible.
12.   The existing situation concerning the training of REO staff for the project
is unfavorable and a considerable training effort will be required to produce and
upgrade engineers in order to achieve project objectives. There is an urgent need
for the estawlishment of an REO training facility in Ranchi.
13.   With regard to village link road construction the situation has improved
over recent years with the active participation of NG00 to train masons and
foremen selected from the villages in appropriate methods of road construction.
The Society for Rural Industrialization (SRI), Ranchi, is the lead organization
in this field, with 5 years of experience. The SRI has a training institute



-48-
Annex: 3
Pagae 3  f
with hostel accommodation in Ranchi, which is adequate for training at this
level. However, training course material needs to be developed and there is a
need to assist SRI in formalizing and improving the training of supervisors,
artisans and workers at the village level.
14.   The procedures for the release of funds from JRY for the construction of
village link roads are complex, requiring the active involvement of the village,
the panchayat and the Block Development Officer. The Junior Engineer attached to
the BDO is responsible for the appraisal of the basic design plan of the road
(center line alignment and cross-sections) and approving construction. The
officials involved have very little background or expeeience in labor-intensive
road construction techniques and procedures. SRI have identified this shortcoming
and have prepared a training program bringing together the parties involved,
within a workshop format, to develop simplified procedures and introduce the
concept of improved methods of construction. The project will support this
initiative, but there is a need to research and develop the course material and
training methods.
Tr&jning f..da
15.   In order to address the historical deficiency of professional training
within the REO engineer cadre the project will support a major training program.
Training will be primarily focused on the staff and workers required for
successful achievement of project targets but provision for institutional
strengthening through more general training of REO staff will be made.
16.   Training will be provided for the following personnel:
i.    Senior REO management;
ii . Engineers assigned to, or recruited by, consultants responsible for
design and supervision;
iii . Engineers responsible for planning and executing rural road
maintenance;
iv.   NGOs responsible for training and assisting with village link road
construction;
v.    Engineers, development officials and workers engaged in village link
road construction and maintenance (through the NGOs);
vi.   REO trainers.
17.   The training program will concentrate on:
i.    Project and contract management;
ii.   Survey, design and tender document preparation;
iii   Construction supervision and quality management;



-49-
Annex 3
attahment 3
Pae4of is
iv.   Road and bridge maintenance;
v.    Improved labor-intensive road construction;
vi.   Accounts control;
vii. Training of trainers.
18.   It is estimated that about 300 staff engaged in project road construction
and maintenance will be trained. It is anticipated that the bulk of these will be
drawn from the REO establishment, but provision is made for recruitment to
consultants teams from the Road Construction Department and from outside
government, if engineers of suitable qualification and aptitude are not assigned
from REO.
Id.ntifieatiorh of Tan
19.   The project area covers 67 Blocks within the regions of Chotanagpur and
Santhal Parganas. REO organization for these regions falls under a Chief
Engineer, based in Ranchi, who is supported by four Superintending Engineers
each in charge of 4-S Divisions, which are headed by Executive Engineers. Below
the Executive Engineers are Assistant Engineers and Junior Engineers reaching
down to individual Blocks. See attached REO Organization Chart.
20.   Senior management from the Chief Engineer down to the Divisional Executive
Engineers will require training in project and contract management, accounts
control and specific technical issues, to enable them to adequately administer
component activities. Assistant and Junior Engineers attached to the consultants
will require general and specific training to enable them to carry out their
duties to the standard expected of the design and supervision consultants.
21.  Maintenance of project roads will commence following construction, and
support will be conditional on the development of an acceptable maintenance
management plan and policy. At that time training in the implementation of the
maintenance plan, together with improved techniques and the employment of
maintenance contractors, will be required for the Executive Engineers and for key
Assistant and Junior Engineers.
22.   In order to efficiently administer the project within government, project
and World Bank guidelines, Executive Engineers and key Assistant Engineers will
be trained in correct accounting procedures, current laws and contract
conditions.
23.   Trainees will be given basic formal training (to refresh basic engineering
principles that may have been forgotten due to the absence of regular
Professional courses for RBO staff), practical demonstrations and field visits to
illustrate course work and improve skills, followed by continuing on-the-job
training under the supervision of experienced consultants.
24. The project intends to demonstrate the benefits of a new approach to rural
road construction and maintenance; in achieving this a cadre of well trained



-50-
Anrn-ex 3
Attachment >
Pace 5 of .16
engineers will be produced that will be equipped to continu, this approach beyond
the lifetime of the project. In addition provision will be made for REO to
continue the training program established through the project, allowing further
training of their staff. To this end the course material and training aids
developed and supplied through the project training program will be made
available to REO to form the basis of an REO training establishment. Engineers
undergoing training who exhibit an aptitude for training will be identified and
given intensive training in course content and training techniques to enable them
to staff the future REO training establishment.
25.   Training for village link road construction will be carried out by NGOs.
Engineers from the NGos will be given technical assistance, through the project,
to develop appropriate training courses and will be trained in improved methods
of labor-intensive road construction and management.
Permonnel to be Trained
26.   Courses have been specially designed to meet the specific needs of the
engineers mentioned above. The participants and the numbers involved are
sumuarized below.
! ree Title!                   Project and Contr± . an       r,
Participants:     1 x Chief Engineer
4 x Superintending Engineers
20 x Executive Engineers
Duration:         2 weeks (split)
Venue:            1 week in Ranchi for all
participants, 1 week on
Gujarat WB project for CE and SEs.
x0iu 2. 2     ee   itlea       survey and DeAi=n
Participants:     5 x Executive Engineers
20 x Assistant Engineers
20 x Junior Engineers
Duration:         3 weeks (survey) & 3 weeks (design)
Venue:            Ranchi
Notes:            Only those AEs and JEs formally
assigned to, or recruited by,
consultants will be trained. All
participanes will be trained in
surrey; of these 2 x EE, 8 x AE and
2 x JE, with right qualification and
aptitude will be trained in design.



-51-
G-cur 3.r3e*. T4t1.H  Construction Superv4ininn and
Oualitv g  ammn
Participants:         20  x Executive Engineers
67 x Assistant Engineers
135 x Junior Engineers
Duration:             3 weeks
Venue:                Ranchi
Notes:                Only those AEs and JEs formally
assigned to, or recruited by,
consultants will be trained. All
BE. will receive basic training
in contract supervision. Numbers
calculated as 1 AE per contract
(bridges) and 1 AE per road
(roads), 1 JE per bridge and 1 JE
per road. Plus allowance for drop
outs and failures.
GrmaurL (. cur.eb Titlet             Road and Bridge Ma4ntenance
Participants:         20 x Executive Engineers
20 x Assistant Engineers
20 x Junior Engineers
Duration:             3 weeks
Venue:                Ranchi
Notes:                All EEs and those key AEs and
JEs will be trained.
Ccurso Tft1os         Lahor-intennive Villaoe Link Road
Construction
Participants:         20 x NGO engineers
Duration:             To be established (approx. 4 weeks)
Venue:                SRI, Ranchi and on site
Notecs                Final number to be trained to be
determined after assessment of
NGO capacity.



-52-
At±aehmen2 3
GZM.Jh         C8oura 'Pit le        A6utne    ahwLaw  n
Participants:         20 x Executive Engineers
20 x Assistant Engineers
Duration:             3 weeks
Venue:                Ranchi
Notes:                All Div. EEs and those key AEs
involved with administering
project contracts will be
trained.
Gzoua..L7    Cnuirag Titl2        N-ain!Ln Trainer.
Participants:         2 x Executive Engineers
6 x Assistant Engineers
Duration:             10 weeks
Venue:                Ranchi
Notes:                Only those engineers with special
aptitude for training and formally
assigned by REO to long term training
duties will be trained
=nuras C6ntknt and Desion
C~our.e12I  Praje6  adCont~ract, tnacrnmn=
Chief Engineer, Superintending Engineers and Executive Engineers:
The rural road component of the BPDP
Estimated costs and disbursements
Process phases
Project procurement methods
Organization of project participants (contractors and
consultants)
Project tender procedures and rules
Contracts for World Bank assisted projects
Extra items, variations and arbitration
Contract management
GOB and project accounts procedures
NQtU Chief Engineer and the Superintending Engineers would be
required to attend for about 1 week of the 3 week
course. Executive Engineers would receive ore detailed
training.



-53-
Course  3(ble         a  Plannin
Chief Engineer and 4 x Superintending Engineers
Maintenance planning and policy:-
Road master plan.
Road inventories and traffic counts
Maintenance finance and estimating
Work and budgets
Executive development -
Computer applications in management
Human resource development
Financial management
Behavioral aspects of management
Legal issues acts and rules
Monitoring
Powers of Chief Engineer and Superintending Engineers
Ngta. 1 week course for senior management to be held at the
Staff Training College, Hyderabad.
coursa 2(a12 SuMvMvina
Assistant Engineers and Junior Engineers:
Definition of terms
Sequence of survey methods
Reconnaissance
Preliminary surveys
Final location survey
Route selection
Comparison of routes
Bridge site surveys and soil tests
Case studies of existing surveys
Group work to practice techniques
Field demonstration - supervised work on site
Executive Engineers:
Reconnaissance
Final location survey
Route selection
Bridge site surveys and soil tests
got&, (i)    Executive Engineers would be required to attend for
about 1 week of the 3 week course.
(ii)   Case Studies would be based on the actual experience of the
survey for Phase I.



-54-
Annex
Paae g1of Is
(iii) Demonstrations would be conducted at the Bihar Institute of
Technology (BIT).
(iv) Field demonstrations would be supervise by the design
consultant on Phase II sites.
__ 2   ,            &nd Prem    Praaratien
Executive Engineers, Assistant and Junior Engineerss
Project road component objectives
Planning - design criteria
Selection criteria
Funding for rural roads
Stage development
Project preparation - the report, estimates and drawings
Indian Road Congress Code for project preparation
Road alignment design
Pavement design and materials
Drainage structure design:-
Hydraulic design
Culverts
Scour protection
Low water crossings
Abutment and pier design
Concrete superstructure
Bridge building materials
Standard plans
Drawings and specifications specific to the project
Executive Engineers, Assistant Engineers and Junior Engineers:
Construction work components and methods
Records and reports
Safety management
Construction schedules
Quality Management on rural road projects
Manifestation of lack of quality control on projects
Total quality control concept
Responsibility - design, contractor and supervision
Routine quality control and final acceptance control
Specifications
Recording and sampling procedures
Tests as per IS & IRC standards - borrow material, bases and
sub-bases, water bound macadam, concrete
Compaction and suitability of various rollers
Statistical quality control
Standard formats for test recording and retrieval
Laboratory practice in testing techniques
Field demonstrations



-nt5
Paev 10 of 16
Note 2 (i)   Laboratory practice would take  place  at  the new  REO
laboratory
(ii)  Field demonstration mould be organized by the supervision
consultant on project sites.
rora. 42 RpAd &Ad RrAa   anna.
Executive Engineers, Assistant Engineers and Junior
Engineers:
The REO maintenance plan-and policy - description
Maintenance of roads:
Types of maintenance
Planning and financing
Inspection
Maintenance criteria
Maintenance organization
Contract maintenance
Accidents and closure of roads
Materials and tools
Equipment - care and operation
Drainage maintenance and shoulder maintenance
Maintenance of murum and WBM roads
Maintenance of bitumen roads
Records, worksheets and reports
Special repairs
Maintenance of bridges:-
Bridge records
Bridge inspections
Bridge repairs
Safety
Field inspections and demonstrations
crourae 5: Labor-T t.liu. Villaaa Link Road Construe±ion
NGO engineers/instructors
General aspects of labor-intensive road construction
Planning of labor-intensive road construction
Organization at headquarters
Statutory laws and policies
Road identification and selection
Land acquisition
Standard designs and specifications
Preparation of alignment and cross-section drawings
Management of office and stores on site



-56-
Site organization for construction and road surfacing
Surveying and setting out
Improved work methods for construction
Tools and equipment - specification and correct use
Minor drainage structures - design and construction
Road maintenance - policy, cost and methods
Site visits and demonstrations
N2t& Training first conducted for SRI and then repeated with increasing
SRI involvement for a further 5 selected NG0s.
Corso. 6g Accounting  Labor Laws and Proiect Proceduren
Executive Engineers and Assistant Engineers
Accounting system for road component of PDP - records and
monthly accounts
General financial and account rules
Execution of works
Custody of cash
Stores
Rules for mechanical workshops
Powers of Executive Engineers and Assistant Engineers
Legal aspects of contracts
Contracts and labor laws
Cours 7z Training of Trainers
Salient features of the road component of BPDP
In-depth explanation of main points of all courses
Course planning and preparation
Development of training materials and course plans
Use and upkeep of training aids
Effective presentation - communication skills
Field visits - organization and methods
Demonstrations of surveying and testing procedures
Total RX!O/Prolct Personnel to be Trained
Chief Engineer                            1
Superintending Engineers                  4
Divisional Executive Engineers.           20
Assistant Engineers                        (107)
Division/maintenance                 20
Survey/design                        20
Contract supervision                 67
Junior Engineers                           (175)
Survey/design                             20
Contract supervision                      135
Maintenance                               20
TOTAL                               3 i



-57-
Annex 3
Attachment: 3
l                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Paae 12 of 16
N4  nineprs / Inp'XUt2X±e _MM1"rnd
27.    20 Engineers and Trainers from NGOs to be trained. Extensive training of
Block officials and engineers, V     va te officials and village artisans and
foremen to be trained by the N0s; numbers to be determined following pilot
training of SRI staff and assessment of NGO capacity.
=rIninea SIZtraa
RKO and Project RPnai ..m   'hinu i
28.   The National Institute for the Training of Highway Engineers (NITHE) will
be engaged to coordinate and organize the training program, and arrange faculty
trainers for courses as required. NITHE is a semi-autonomous self-accounting
government body with extensive experience of running programs of this nature,
including other World Bank assisted projects.
29.   NITHE will assign a full-time coordinator to the program who will be
responsible for arranging venues for training and for organizing the timely
participation of faculty and guest resource personnel. NITHE will be responsible
for producing course material, commissioning training aide, and arranging
demonstrations, site visits and external courses. Once the training courses have
been critically reviewed, NITHE will produce field manuals to guide engineers in
the execution of their duties.
30.   Engineers attached to the design and supervision consultants will work
under the supervision of experienced staff who will ensure the application of
correct methods and procodures. The project consultants will be responsible for
the training of the engineers attached to them, by ensuring that they attend
formal courses and by conducting additional experience-related training and
continual on-the-job training to reinforce and expand on the formal course work.
Consultant staff would be expected to participate in formal training as guest
lecturers and demonstrators.
31.   The supervision consultant, who will be engaging the largest number of
engineers, will include on his staff an experienced trainer to assist in the
formal training program and arrange and regularize on-the-job training of the
engineers engaged by him.
32.   The courses have been designed in general, but the consultants and NITHE
will cooperate in fine tuning course content and material to meet consultant
requirements and emphasis.
33.   REO will be expected to select their best engineers for assignment to the
consultants. The consultants will select from those engineers proposed by REO,
but will retain the right to reject those not having the right aptitude or
qualifications for the work they are responsible for executing. These engineers
would be paid by the consultant and will be guaranteed full-time assignment to
the consultant for at least three years. If sufficient suitable engineers cannot
be selected from RD0, the consultant will be free to recruit from the Road



-58-
,Annex 3
Attahmrl. 
Page 13 of 16
Construction Department or outside of government if necessary. Attachment to
consultants represents a unique training opportunity for those REO engineers
selected. The more RE0 engineers accepted by the consultant, the greater the
benefit of training that will accrue to REO.
34.   NITHE will identify from amongst the trainees those exhibiting an aptitude
for training. If they are willing, and if REQ guarantees their long-term posting
to training duties, NITHE will conduct a course to train these trainers. These
personnel would then form the staff of an REQ training facility in Ranchi to
perpetuate the training program and create general infrastructure strengthening
within REO.
_100and Panahwat T        r
35.   The Society for Rural Industrialization (SRI) will be engaged as the lead
NGO to train other NOOs and Block and panchayat officials and workers in labor-
intensive road construction.
36.   An external consultant will be appointed to provide regular short-term
(4-6 weeks) inputs to assist SRI in developing course material and in training
SRI and other NGO instructors in improved methods management. It is estimated
that six short-term inputs will be needed.
37.           ch _ical ssistnan  InRut. The consultant, preferably an ILO
expert, will conduct research into the specific labor-intensive training needs of
Bihar State, including standing specifications, labor laws and statutory
procedures before developing the training program. During his first mission NOO
training material will be developed, in coordination with SRI, and training
given to SRI staff as required. SRI training material for village artisans and
foremen will be reviewed and revised to include improved work and management
methods. NITHE will act as a back-up resource to the expert, providing computer,
printer and training material production facilities.
38.   SRI, through contact with 2anchavac within the Blocks covered
in the first project phase, will select a village link road for construction.
This road will serve as a pilot demonstration to test methods and training.
39.   SRI would identify the mukhiya within the pang=ctaX and the Bloc%.
Junior Engineer involved with the pilot road, and bring them together for an
orientation and technology appreciation workshop. SRI has prepared a training
program including this workshop together with training for construction
management and drainage structure masons. This program, which will be revised
with the input of the consultant, will be conducted for the selected personnel
referred to above, at the SRI center in Ranchi. Special attention will be given
to the preparation of simple alignment and cross section drawings necessary to
secure release of funds from JRY. Methods to set out construction of these lines
and levels will be developed.
40.      ond ¶'a        Aiatanee Inut. Once funds for road construction have
been released, the expert would return to Ranchi to assist in practical training



-59-
,Attacntx 3
Page 14 of 16
and management procedures. The SRI instructors would be assisted and guided on
site for on-the-job training. Material would be critically evaluated and revised
where necessary.
41.   The expert mould investigate the quality and suitability of construction
tools and equipment. SRI have developed and manufactured a basic vibrating
roaler powered by the connon motor used to power water supply pumps; this and
othter equipment will be evaluated uander site conditions. If necessary, new
sources of supply will be found.
42.   A further 2-3 NGOs with road construction expertise would be selected
within the project area and they will attend a workshop in Ranchi to explain the
strategy of NGO involvement.
43.   While the expert io away the selected NGOs would identify, with the
participation of the villages, further roads for construction, and prepare
surveys and application for release of funds. They would also select local
officials, engineers, foremen and artisans to come to SRI, Ranchi, and the pilot
site for preliminary training.
44.   Third Technical Aasistance Innut.  Once new funds are released the expert
would return once more to assist the SRI staff in guiding the new NGOs in
establishing correct working and management methods on the new sites.
45.   The expert, with the back-up of the NITHE coordinator in Ranchi, will
prepare simple practical manual for staff at varying levels. NITHE will produce
these at their New Delhi headquarters.
46.   The expert would report on the quality of the work and the advisability of
continuing and expanding this approach to link road construction. If the report
is favorable, the process will be repeated with an expansion of the number of
roads under construction and a further 2-3 NOOs selected for involvement.
47.   Further external inputs would be decided at this stage, but it is
estimated that another 9 short-term missions will be required to reinforce the
training and methodology.
48. Once this approach to village road construction has proved effective, the
expert and NITHE, New Delhi, would cooperate to produce training material for use
in training elsewhere.
,Ac:tion Plan
The timing of training courses has been designed to meet the needs of the 3
phases of the road component construction' program. A first priority has been the
training of engineers for the Phase II survey and design and the Phase I
construction supervision. See attached timetables for component activities and
the training program. Engineers employed to carry out the survey and design of
Phase II will be retained for survey and design Phase III. Phase III supervision
will be carried out by the engineers trained for Phase I as they become available
on completion of contracts. Junior Engineers, having gained experience, will be



-60-
Attachment 3
PAge 15 of 16
given more responsibility. There are contingencies in the training budget, should
this prove necessary.
49.   The number of courses in the timetable are dictated by the need to
restrict individual course numbers to around 30. It is not advisable to run two
courses concurrently.
50. The training should start as soon as arrangements can be made, but within
the first year of the project.
Cost of the Training
51.   NITHE has prepared detailed cost estimates for their participation in
coordinating and organizing the training program. NITHE has included the cost of
training aids and the purchase of a bus to transport trainees on site visits etc.
These items may be covered elsewhere in the project budget. To cover the cost of
manuals NITHE has made allowance to produce 3 manuals, 200 copies each.
52.   Allowances and salaries for trainees is expected to be met from GOB and
consultant resources.
S3.   Training venues that are needed will be made available from establishments
under the control of the Regional Development Coanissioner; it is expected that
use of these facilities will be provided.
54.   NITHE estimates a further Rs.100,000 per year to cover local travel
expenses of training staff. Allowing 2.5 years for the program this amounts to
Rs.250,000. A further Rs.150,000 per year will be required for the salaries and
allowances of thei course coordinator in Ranchi, over 2.5 years; this will amount
to Rs.375,000.
SS.   The consultant's (expert's) participation is estimated for 6 months at
US$18,000 per month, or US$108,000 in total.
56.   SRI has prepared a training cost estimate, which includes facilities at
their Ranchi headquarters. The SRI program allows for the training of 10 NGOO,
75 local officials, 144 village construction supervisors and 72 masons and
artisans. The program will be reviewed and restructured by the ILO expert, but
for budget purposes this training program is accepted as feasible. The number of
MO engineer/instructors trained will probably be halved but the course doubled
in length - the original estimate for 10 NGOs stands. SRI have indicated the cost
of supplying resource people to assist other NOs and the ILO expert in the
field; this has been included for 9 months per year for two years.



-61-
AttachFent_
paae 16 of 16
Cout of organizing training                                 Re. 4,550,000
Training aide                                               Re.   990,000
Bus for transportation of trainees                          Rs.   400,000
Manuals                                                     Rs.   334,000
Local transport for trainers                                Rs.   250,000
Salary and allowances for coordinator                       Rs.   375,000
Contingencies            Re.   701,000
Total Cost of Training Program                   Rs.7,500,000
Technical assistance                                        US$1081000 (for two
years)
Training bk SRT and other NGOm
Strategy workshops                                          Ru.  16,000
Orientation workshops                                       Rs.  82,000
Construction management                                     Rs. 173,000
Artisan training                                            Rs. 230,000
Engineering service provided by SRI                         Rs. 144,000
Contingencies            Rs.  55,000
Total Cost of NGO Training                Rs.700,000



-62-
a 3
Attaehmat 
RIHAR PLATIMAU DRVRLOPMRNP   1 E'
criteria for Ranking of Rural RodPronomal.
Item               Positive Points          max  POL=                Remarh
P-12/ Population connected per km (No)         + 15      1/F.P. for values
400/km & above
P-2   Markets connected per km (No)            + 15        F.P. for values
0.2/km & above
P-3   Panchayat H.Q. connected per km (No)   + 15          F.P. for values
0.2/km & above
P-4   Actual existing traffic at a suitable  + 30
section of the proposed road
P-5   Potential for traffic (Mining,           + 15
irrigation, agriculture,
industries etc.)
P-6   Benefit to the existing network          + 5
of roads and the nearby inhabitants
(e.g. missing link, access to public
health center/school, missing bridge
etc.)
P-7   Easy availability of construction        + 5
materials
+ 100
eggative Points
N-13/ Percentage of length through forest    - 25        F.P. for 100%
area
N-2   Cost per km. (including bridges)          - 10     Zero for Rs.0.8 million
and F.P. for Rs.l.4
million & above per km.
N-3   Problems of land acquisition and          - 1S     F.P. for full width
rehabilitation                                    acquisition for entire
length
N-4   Other adverse ervironmental factors    - 10
(e.g., hill slopes, drainage, agri-
cultural lands, etc.)
60
;tjjL.- A road proposal to qualify for selection must secure minimum 40 points,
but the ultimate preference is to be based on relative over-all
ranking.
1/ Full points.
2/ P-1 to P-6 are positive points.
3/ N-1 to N-4 are negative points.



-63-
Annex A
Attachment 1
PaCe I of 12
JNDTA
RIHR PATEU  EVEOPMNTPROJECT - IRRICATTON COMPONMNT
124aline& for Pormulation of aravitv
Minor Trrira in Schemes
1.    The proposed project would cover 67 out of 112 blocks of the under-
developed TSP area in the southern plateau of Bihar state. To improve irrigation
facilities to the predominantly tribal and scheduled caste farmers of the area,
it is proposed to take up rehabilitation of existing minor irrigation schemes
(MIS) which are in a deteriorated state and are not performing as per design, and
also construction of new minor irrigation schemes, covering a total area of about
12,000 ha. Schemes with CCA of 30 to 150 ha are proposed under the scope of this
project. This paper lists steps to be taken with regard to site selection,
investigations, design and r.eport preparation of schemes proposed to be included
in the project.
PlannJna CriteriA
Water AllocaLtio
2.    Water use proposed under the scheme should have clearance of the state
government to the effect that the pi-oposed water allocation is within the state's
water resources master plan and that there is no local or basin conflicting
demand on this allocation.
Toorahi cal Sun=e
3.    The catchment area and co=ua--.q area of each MIP should be surveyed and a
topographical map on village maps in 1:4000 (10=330 ft) scale with contours at 1
m interval in case of catchment area and 0.3 m (1 ft) in case of conmmand area
should be prepared. The map should depict cadastral inf'ormation and the
boundaries of the proposed system.
Soil Srey and Lnd Cl&asificto
4.    In each coimmand area, a simple reconnaissance type soil survey and land
classification should be carried out to:
i.    differentiate between area suitable for upland and low land crops
that require different irrigation practices;
ii.   help in designing the future cropping pattern in the command area;
and



-64-
M:m"
Attanhmant I
iii. identify soil deficiencies, if any, for improving the agricultural
practices.
5.    For this purpose, areas should be demarcated sequentially into three
categories, namely
i.    upland (U) suitable for upland crops with limited irrigation;
ii.   medium (M) lands where a diversified cropping pattern of both
irrigated paddy and other dry crops are possible; and
iii. low (L) lands which are only suitable for paddy during monsoon and
other crops during dry season.
6.    The  LO areas would be relatively level, moderately well drained with
estimated percolation rate of 2 to 3 mm/day. The 14 areas would have a still
higher percolation rate (greater than 6 mm/day) and slope exceeding 1.5%.
Yield Hvdroloav
7.    SAinfall data : Presently rainfall is being observed at the block
headquarters only and no rainfall record is available inside the catchment areas
of various Minor Irrigation (MI) Schemes. It is, therefore, necessary that at
least three years of rainfall be recorded inside the catchment of a few MIS for
establishing correlation with nearby rain gauges installed at various block
headquarters for which long time records are available. The objective of this
correlation is to ensure correct assessment of tho rainfall for working out the
run-off. Keeping in view the small size (30 to 150 ha) of the MIS, the nearest
existing rain gauges could be continued to be used as is being done presently,
for project preparation.
Aseasment of Run-off
B.    As per present practice, run-off from catchment is estimated by using
various empirical formulae, linking run-off with precipitation without taking
into consideration topographical and vegetative characteristics of the
catchments. Most commonly used formulae are Dicken's, Ryve's and Strange's
tables. No attempt has been made over the years to check on their accuracy.
9.    Strange's tables have mainly been used by categorizing run-off in the
individual catchments as "goodO,  averagem, or  bad*.  Strange's tables/curves
were developed using data observed in irrigation tanks in South India and these
suffer from the shortcoming that the same total rainfall does not necessarily
produce the same run-off. The relationship between good, average or bad
conditions is governed by a ratio of 2:1.5:1 respectively resulting in
significant variation in the estimate of run-off depending upon catchment
classification.
10.   Since however, Strange's tables indicate the relationship between
cumulative monthly rainfall starting in June, i.e. the beginning of the season
and cumulative run-off, the monthly run-off estimates can be obtained. This will



-65-
Annex A
provide the required monthly values for use in the operation tables of the
reservoir.
11. With the advent of computers, a more accurate system of run-off yield
estimation based on  continuous water balance methods has been developed and
various versions used in different projects like Karnataka Tank Project, Upper
Narmada River Basin in Madhya Pradesh, and Betwa River Basin (MP). It employs
hydraulic techniques like the well-known Stanford Watershed Model using daily and
hourly rainfall and evapo-transpiration to calculate daily soil moisture and run-
off.  These models using programable, hand-held calculators, desk-top and floor
type computers give excellent yield and related hydraulic estimates for a range
of catchment variables like annual rainfall including its sequential distribution
throughout the year; potential evaporation and related time sequence; topography
and land slope; drainage characteristics; soil properties such as moisture and
permeability; vegetation; and pond, lake and reservoir areas. Continuous Water
Balance Models* are based on the inter-related physical processes that occur in
the catchment between the aforesaid parameters.
12.   Apart from providing a more accurate estimate of periodic catchment run-off
to be expected under given rainfall patterns, the model would also facilitate
cross checks on existing methods of estimating peak run-off for the design of
spillway/ waste weirs.
13. A comparative study of various existing computer models for generating
artificially the yield of a catchment for selected time increments in response to
regional rainfall records and catchment characteristics was carried out by the
Center for Water Resources, Anna University, Madras. Another study is the SHE
model under examination and development at the National Institute of Hydrology.
14.  An appropriate model from amongst a number of available models should be
selected for the Bihar Plateau Development Project (BPDP), with the help of the
existing Indian technological resources and a forecasting model should be
calibrated for catchments in South Bihar. Calibration of such models should be
carried out with data on one or several well-gauged pilot catchments and/or sub-
catchments in South Bihar.
15.   It is desirable that a long term stream gauging program is started in
combination with an improved rainfall data collection network to obtain better
run-off yield estimates. The run-off estimates should be based on a correlation
of rainfall and run-off observed at nearby catchments with similar
characteristics. These correlations should continue to be used for estimating
run-offs till a suitable Continuous Water Balance Modela is developed as
explained in the foregoing paragraphs.
16.   In case of diversion schemes (as distinct from storage schemes), which are
dependent on run of the river, flow measurements recorded at the diversion point,
during the irrigation season, should form the basis of scheme proposals. The
downstream conuitted use as well as anticipated upstream abstractions should be
taken into account while determining the water availability for the scheme.



-66-
Attachment I
CroD pattern
17.   The cropping pattern needs to be evolved on the basis of:
i.    present cropping pattern;
ii.   trends in change in the crop pattern over the last three to five
years;
iii.  needs of the farmer;
iv.   sequential topography of the command area - uplands, medium lands and
low lands;
v.    soil classification;
vi.   climatic factors in general and incidence of rainfall in particular;
vii.  utilization of the high incidence of rainfall in the rainy season
through appropriate timing of the sowing of different varieties of
paddy (early, mid, late, short and long duration); and
viii. availability of water.
During winter season, remunerative crops like wheat, gram, potatoes, vegetables,
oilseeds and fodder could be considered
CroD Water Reauirement
18.   The modified Penman Method should be used to assess the ten daily/monthly
water requirements. The agro-climatic data like temperatures, relative humidity,
wind velocity, sunshine hours and rainfall for working out the evapo-transition
(ETO) should be taken from the four regional IMD stations of Ranchi, Chaibasa,
Jamshedpur and Dumka.  The applicability of data of any ITD station to a
particular MIP could be determined by Theissen Polygon Method and in consultation
with Birsa Agriculture University (BAU). ETO values worked out above should also
be compared with the zone-wise ETO estimates prepared by PPM Cell of 001.  The
rainfall data of the block in which the MIP lies should be used for working out
the affectivity of rainfall.
19.   To account for the effect of the crop characteristics, the time of
planting/sowing, the stage of crop development and the general climatic
conditions on the crop water requirements, crop coefficient K0 should be
ascertained as per procedure given in FAO Publication 24, and in consultation
with BAU.
20.   Affectivity of rainfall should be worked out as per method given in FAO 24
publication.
21.   Alternately, the effective rainfall for ponded crops (paddy) may be
assessed by water balance method taking into account the distribution of daily
precipitation, depth of pond at the time of rainfall, rate of deep percolation,
rate of consumptive use of crop, depth of irrigation applied using daily data for
a continuous period of four to five years. Range-wise incremental affectivity
coefficients should then be calculated ar: used for various ranges of rainfall
like 0 to 50 mm, 51 to 100 mm, 101 to 105 mm and so on.
22.   For non-ponded crops like wheat, gram, vegetables, etc effective rainfall
should be calculated on the basis of the procedure of the Soil Conservation



-67-
.1
aa5of 12}
Service, US Department of Agriculture, and in consultation with Soil Conservation
Research and Training Contor, ICAR, Hazaribagh.
23.   The quantum of water necded for cultural practices, which are linked to
specific requirements for various crops, should be considered while working out
the demand. These provisions are listed below:
i.  Pre-sowing or ploughing or land preparation
for Kharif/Rabi crops                        -      100/75 mm
(to be applied in the same fortnight of sowing for all crops except for
transplanted paddy when it is applied one fortnight prior to
transplanting)
ii. Saturation for nursery paddy
a.   at the time of sowing                -      50 mm
b.   at the time of uprooting             -      50 m
iii.        Puddling and transplanting requirement
for paddy                                    -      100 mm
(to be applied in the fortnight of transplanting)
iv. Deep percolation 2 to 8 am/day depending
upon characteristics                                -3 nun/day
(to be determined experimentally, assumed average value for terraced
land)
v.  Dry out - no irrigation is provided for - fortnights before harvesting
a.     All crops except vegetables and fodder   -       1 fortnight
b.     paddy (standing pool of 100 m availed
towards consumption use and percolation  -      2 fortnights
24.   Simulation studies for a historical series of years (say 20) for
reservoirs of each MIP should be carried out with a view to:
i.   serve as a guide for broad planning and system operation;
ii.  fixing up the size of the reservoir;
iii. determine years of failure and success or dependability of the
system;
iv.   find out spillages of the system together with the size of the
spillway;
v.    sizing of the canal and distribution system;
vi.  sustenance or otherwiso of the design cropping pattern and designed
irrigation intonsities and the noed for modifications therein; and
vii. sizing of the command area.



-68-
Annex A
At±ahmant 1
Pago e of 12
Earth Dam Damian
25.   It is essential that the criteria and standard for design and construction
of earthen dams laid down by the Bureau of Indian Standards, GOI and CWC, GOI as
applicable to small dams should bo followed and sound and accepted engineering
practices adopted.
26.   Detailed foundation investigations for small earth dams should comprise
(tost pits along with laboratory tests) at about 100 m apart along the axis of
the dam with about two to three test pits in the deepest portion of the river and
one each at spillway/waste weir and head regulator site. Test pits along dam
axis should be taken deep enough to the proposed bottom of cut-off trench, which
should be taken upto impervious strata.
27.   Pits of suitable depths in the proposed borrow pit area of 30 to 50 m grid
should be dug and representative samples collected/tested for different types of
strata/soil/gravel along with quantity available and the lead from the source to
the site. The borrow area should be located as near the dam site as possible,
but at least at a distance of 10 times the hydraulic head from the toe or heel of
the dam. The plans and sections showing stratification of the borrow area should
be drawn indicating therein the lead for different types of soils. Triaxial
tests of the materials will aid the decign of the dam section, rip-rap, filter,
rock-toe and key trench.
28.   Compaction of earth work should be by means of sheep-foot rollers.  Where
space restrictions prohibit their use, manually controlled Pneumatic Tampers
should be used. In any case, a minimum of 95% compaction efficiency at OMC in
case of gravelley soils and 98% in case of clayey soils would be essential.
Fixina Height of Dam and Reservoir CaDacities
29.   The steps involved in fixing the gross, dead and live storage capacities
(and levels) comprise:
i.   Area CAcaitv Curvea  Carrying out topographical-cum-contour survey on
village maps (1 in 4000 or 1= 330 ft) with about 1.5 m (5 ft)
contour interval (less if possible) and drawing up of Elevation-Area
and Elevation-Capacity curves (and tables).
ii.  Dead          Cptoraaa    acitv: Working out dead storage capacity on the basis
of silt factor evolved from actual silt observations data on various
resorvoirs located in the regions, assuming the life of the reservoir
as 50 years. In the absence of the actual silt observations data, a
silt factor of 1.0 Ac ft/year/sq mile may be adopted.
iii. Reservoir       ation losses: These should be based on the evapo-
ration data observed on reservoirs or pan-evaporation data in the
region. Till the observed data becomes available, an evaporation
depth of 35.8 cm for monsoon (June through October) and 110.3 cm for
non-monsoon (November through May) may be assumed. It is based on
observations in some of the reservoirs in Bihar and Orissa. The



-69-
ptage7 Of 12
losses are calculated on the average area between FRL and dead
storage level.
iv.  Rras. Capacity: Preliminary study for working out the storage
capacity should be done by Mass Diagram Method as detailed in ISI
(BIS) standards with due regard to the quantum of inflows and the
proposed draft based on crop water requirements. It should be
checked with respect to top bank level (TBL) and dead storage level.
Adequate free board as stipulated in BIS standards should be
provided.
30.   The results of the simulation studies for a historical series of years (20
years appear adequate for small dams) will finally determine the size of the
reservoir. These studies will take cognizance of inflows, crop water
requirements, other demands, canal capacities, reservoir evaporation losses,
spillage, etc.
Wlood Hvdrloav
31.   In the absence of availability of flood data for any of the working
schemes in the Bihar Plateau, it is recommended that Standard Project Storm (SPS)
of 31 cm that occurred in the region from July 20 to 21, 1920 in 48 hours be
used. The pattern of distribution of the aforesaid storm based on self-recording
rain gauge (SRR) at Jamshedpur as given by Indian Meteorological Department
(IMD), Jamshedpur, is as under:
Time(hours) 0     6     12   18   24    30    36   42    48
i of 48 hour
Rainfall          0     57   73    84    91    96   99    100   100
32.   Owing to very close proximity of the small-sized catchment with the dam,
infiltration loss may be ignored and six hourly rainfall excess increments
found out. These excess increments should then be placed in a critical
sequence to work out the valus of the peak flood for designing the surplus
weir.
33.   As per IMD records, the maximum 24 hour rainfall for the undernoted
stations is as under:
Ranchi                231.1 mm
Chaibara             214.67 mm
Jamshedpur            214.6 mm
Dumka                 261.9 mm
The percentage distribution of the above rainfall at one hourly interval could
be ascertained from IMD station, Jamshedpur and flood routing studies for
spillway/surplus weir carried out.
34.   The above methods could continue to be used till peak run-off estimates
are worked out with the help of a suitable OContinuous Water Balance Model



-70-
Annex A
- ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~n 1o 
proposed to be developed for BPDP as explained in para 11 or *Flood Peak
Generation Model which would be developed. The study would also
i.   suggest an appropriate return period of storm to obviate breaches,
yet not raise the cost of spillway to unacceptable level; and
ii.  modify the existing storm relationships for BPDP using the
catchment characteristics and regional rainfall parameters.
The above study should be carried out by experienced Indian Consultants who
will review the present status of the work done in this field, besides
generating software for design and arranging necessary training for staff
working on the project.
Bfillway
35.   As explained in para 30, till development of the Flood Peak Generation
Model, the spillway/surplus weir may be designed for Standard Project Storm of
31 cm that occurred in the region on July 20 to 22, 1920 in 48 hours.
36.   Availability of a suitable spillway site should be a very important
factor while selecting the dam site for small storage schemes so that the cost
of spillway and protection measures remains wlthin reasonable limits of
percentage to the total cost of headworks. The spillway/waste weir should be
provided with a stilling basin for energy dissipation and the bed and sides of
the spill/tail channel should be protected properly till its outfall into the
main nala. This is considered essential to obviate damage to the tail channel
and the dam due to retrogression. The design of the spillway/waste weir should
be in accordance with the relevant ISI (BIS) standards.
anAl Head Re-ulator
37.   Head regulator should consist of a masonry or concrete circular well in
the upstream, with gate and gate hoist arrangement and a R.C.C. Hume pipe of
diameter not less than 0.9 meters laid on cement concrete foundation.
Canal Distribution fytaL
38.   The main supply canal (taking off from the head regulator) branch canal,
if any, and water courses taking off therefrom down to 4 ha sub-chaks would be
constructed as a part of the project.
39.   The head capacity of the main supply canal should be worked out after the
project crop pattern is decided and crop water requirements are worked out by
modified Penman Method.
40.   Field channels within the 4 ha sub-chak will be constructed by the
farmers themselves under technical guidance of MID to ensure correct alignment
and adherence to specifications for quality.
41.   Adequate number of structures like aqueducts, super passages, siphons,
drops, bridges, measuring devices, cross regulators should be provided on the



-71-                                Annex 4
main and branch canals as well as on the water courses. Measuring devices like
Parshal flumes should be provided at the head of the main and branch supply
channelsg.
42.   The distribution system should be designed in such a way as to permit
rotational supply.
43.   Selective lining should be provided in reaches where the canal passes
through pervious soil areas, or whero needed for structural reasons. The
various types of lining could comprise in gitu cement concrete in the base and
pre-cast CC tiles on the sides, pre-cast semi-circular troughs, etc. The type
of lining to be adopted would depend upon the availability of materials; local
expertiss; effectiveness of each type; and economic studies in this regard.
44.   The project area has a rolling topography and the land has been converted
into terraces for cultivation. So far as the terraces on the upland and medium
lands are concerned, these have slopes so steep that no drainage appears to be
necessary. In the low lands, however, field drains may be necessitated as a
part of OFD works which would be carried out by the farmers themselves. A
careful watch on the groundwater would be necessary to initiate remedial
measures if a rise in the groundwater level is noticed. Surveys should be
carried out to plan the alignment and design of the drainage system.
Scheme ReDorts of Rehabil1tatiQo Schgmes
45.   A large number of gravity minor irrigation schemes exist in the project
area which are functioning at a very low efficiency as compared to their design
objectives. Based on the available information, prioritizing of schemes
needing rehabilitation should be done for carrying out detailed surveys.
Proposals for their rehabilitation should be based on detailed field surveys of
the existing facilities/components. These details ihould form a part of the
Scheme Report, under the following broad headings:
i.   History of the project;
ii.  Project performance with regard to water availability and adequacy
and timeliness of irrigation supplies compared with project design
objectives, in terms of quantity as also areal extent, with
particular reference to tail end areas;
iii. Irrigation development in the command compared with design and the
prevalent crop pattern. Need to redefine the design objectives,
with reasons;
iv.  Diagnostic analysis of deficienciest
a.    Headwork - dam, head regulator, waste weir, spillway;
b.    Canal system - earth section, masonry structures, outlets;



-72-
Pao& 10 of 12
v.    Proposed rehabilitation;
a.    Headwork - dam, head regulator, waste weir, spillway;
b.    Canal System - earth section, masonry structures, outlets;
vi.  Strategy and time frame of implementation of rehabilitation works,
in the background of a functioning scheme;
vii. Cost estimates, along with a write-up on provisions made under each
sub-head of estimate relating to proposed physical interventions,
which should be described;
viii.       Benefit-cost ratio analysis, based on benefits from current
level of service provided by the scheme and propor'd after
rehabilitation;
ix.  Implementation and procurement schedules; and
x.   Drawings of various components of the scheme (headwork and canals)
as existing and proposed as a part of rehabilitation, supported by
design calculations.
Diaanostic Analysis
46.   Diagnostic analysis of the system should be carried out with particular
reference to the following areas, amongst others, to form a basis for the
scheme report:
RkervoiX
47.  Analysis should cover the designed annual average yield adopted in the
original project, designed storage capacity and the number of years since
construction, in which the reservoir has been filled to:
i.   designed FRL;
ii.  more than 50 % designed capacity but less than FRL;
iii. less than 50 % capacity.
48.   Based on this analysis and simulation studies, the reliable (75%) water
availability should be determined.
49.   Tank gauge records should be used to assess if the water loss from the
reservoir is excessive.
50.   How much private land has come under submergence of the reservoir and
whether compensation for the same has been paid.
51.   Raising the full reservoir level to increase capacity should be
considered only where additional private land does not get submerged.



,Pap. 11 of 12
DAM
52.   Surveys should be carried out  to obtain accurate cross sections of the
dam at not less than 30 meter interval. Damage to the dam profile, pitching,
filters, boulder too, etc. should be marked clearly after site inspection by at
least the Assistant Engineer. Any settlement areas should be thoroughly
investigated. Proposals to rehabilitate the dam section as per planning
criteria should, as far as possible, involve resetting thW upstream slope to
stable profile, providing increase in section if needed on the downstream side.
53*  The record of leakage observations through the dam should be carefully
studied and analyzed and the report should spell out the remedial action
proposed, where necessary.
54.   Details of the existing Head regulator and its present condition should
be provided in the report, giving studied proposals for its remodelling to suit
the planning criteria.
55.   The record of depth of water that has flown over the waste weir over the
years should be studied and incorporated in the report. The revised hydrologic
studies as per the planning criteria, should be carried out and the adequacy of
the spillway capacity checked. Proposals for enhancement of the capacity, if
needed, should consider various available alternatives including use of
automatic falling shutters.
56.   Proposals of structural rehabilitation of the waste weir should be based
on detailed structural design computations. The report should include analysis
of the behavior of spill channel, whether there is any retrogression, and the
proposals to tackle the same.
Canal Svstem
57.   Report should include information about the actual irrigation achieved
since completion, showing area cultivated in the comnand with different crops,
and area irrigated year-wise, comparing with the project proposals. The
reasons for shortfall should be studied, including discussions with the farmers
to know their views on the past performance of the system and on the proposals
in the rehabilitation scheme based on the planning criteria.
58.   Detailed field surveys of the entire canal system should be carried out,
which would include cross sections of the canal at close intervals to enable
plotting of
accurate cross sections of the existing position and to determine precisely the
remodelling effort required. Revised design of the canal section should be
based on the planning criteria already set out.
59.   Review of the condition and adequacy of individual existing  masonry
structures and need for additional structures should be carried out by field
study and remodelling proposals should be based on this study and structural



-74-
design calculations. Provision of additional structures as per planning
criteria should be mad* explaining the need, including that of selected lining.



-75-
Annex 
Attachm ntn I
INDIA
UTHMAR PLATRAU DEVELOPMEN¶' PROJECT
Minor Irriaation Comoonent
Terms of Reference for Resident Consultants
to Minor IXrisaation De2artment. Government of Bihar
hakxround
1.    The Government of India proposes to receive a credit from the World
Bank/IDA on behalf of the state of Bihar for t he Bihar Plateau Development
Project (BPDP) covering integrated developments in the sectors of agriculture,
irrigation, drinking water and roads. The project area is located in the
regions of Chotanagpur and Santhal Parganas, subdivided into five and three
districts respectively. Each district is further divided into administrative
blocks. The project covers 65 blocks, with a predominantly (more than 80%)
scheduled cast and schedule tribe population.
2.    Minor irrigation component of the project consists of rehabilitation of
existing and construction of new small scale gravity and lift irrigation schemes,
water harvesting tanks and dug wells, for irrigation of about 22,000 ha. Work of
gravity schemes (12,000 ha) is the responsibility of Minor Irrigation Department
(MID), that of lift schemes (3.000 ha) of Bihar Hill Area Lift irrigation
Corporation (BHALCO) and responsibility of WHT and dug wells is of Rural
Development Department. A multi disciplinary consultant team to be provided by a
qualified Indian consulting firm, is proposed to be appointed and retained for
the entire life of the project (about five years) to assist the MID and BHALCO in
implementation of the project. The project is expected to support aboujt 300
gravity and lift irrigation schemes having average irrigation potential of 50 ha
each, to be rehabilitated constructed over a period of about 5 years.
Oblective
3.    The objective of the consultancy is to provide technical input in the areas
of investigations, design, construction quality control of dams, canals, lift
irrigation schemes and setting up operation and maintenance procedures through
formation of water users associations, for schemes included in the project.
Scone of Work for the Consultant Team
InvestiOations
4.    To verify the available field data collected by MID and Bhalco for each
scheme proposed for inclusion in the project and collect additional data needed
for determining scope of the project, and for preparing adequate engineering
design of the project components.



-76-
Atcaehmant 2
*                               ~~~~~~~~~Pag  2 of I
5.    To prescribe and guide field investigations and field surveys needed at the
scheme site for preparing component designs. Such investigations and surveys to
be arranged by the Design Cell of MID, to be carried out by field formations of
MID/Bhalco. Consultant to monitor progress against a pre determined schedule,
and in case of delay by the department staff, to engage their own survey teams
and adhere to the agreed schedule. Responsibility of documenting the results of
field investigations shall rest with the consultant.
6.    To carry out diagnostic analysis of rehabilitation schemes, determine
causes leading to deterioration of the scheme, prescribe remedial action and
prepare a diagnostic report.
Des ions and Drawings
7.    To prepare Engineering design specifications, based on national and state
design standards for type of works involved in the project, in consultation with
the design cell, for approval by the Chief Engineer MID.
8.    To determine crop pattern for adoption in the scheme design.
9 .  To prepare engineering designs and drawings for each scheme, including
construction drawings.
Cost Estimates and Bid Documents
10.   To prepare cost estimates of different scheme components and prepare bid
documents in the forms to be prescribed by MID/Bhalco.
Construgtion gHuneXXision and Ouality Control
11.   To propose, in  consultation with the Quality Control Coll of MID, (a)
norms for testing of materials of construction and of the finished product, (b)
roster of quality control field inspections by MID's QC cell and by consultant
team member assigned for construction quality control, for approval by CE, MID.
12.   To carry out construction quality cont control inspections.
13.   To prepare monthly reports on construction quality control to be furnished
to Chief Engineer, MID, SE (QC), SE and EE (field).
Oporation & Maintenance and Water User Association
14. To assist SE (O&M) in evolving conditions of MOU and agreement with
WUA.
15. To assist, at the field level, AE (OM) units in organizing WUA, transfer
of completed schemes to such WUA and guiding the WUA in operation and
xaintenance of schemes handed over to them on completion. Required consultant
field teams to be attached to each AE(ONT) unit.



-77-
Annex A
Attachmeot 2
Eg3 of 3
Duration of ConsUltanc~v
16. The Consultant team is proposed to be appointed in the first year of the
project, which is proposed to have a life of five years. Consultancy is proposed
to last till the end of the project.
Facilities
17. Consultants would be responsible for renting, furnishing and equipping an
office in Ranchi including computers, copiers, drawing equipment etc. They
will also arrange residential acconnodation on their own.
18. Consultants would procure one saloon car and 9 jeeps for their exclusive use
and shall be responsible for their running and maintenance.
~unrts/Xn1Wtg by the Client
19. MID Bhalco shall furnish the available engineering and design data, and
historical performance data to the consultant. In addition they shall also supply
to the consultant, data a result of any surveys/investigations/studies/analysis
identified and specified by him.
20. MID/Bhalco shall, through their field staff, carry out field
surveys/investigations/studies identified and specified by the consultant
according to a schedule to be settled, at the beginning of the year, between the
consultant and SE (Design).
Schedule of Work and Revige
21.    Consultant shall within one month of award of consultancy, furnish to the
CE, MID Ranchi, a schedule of mobilizing the staff and also first year's program
of work. Progress of the consultants work shall be reviewed, both quantitatively
and technically by a committee consisting of CEs, MID, Ranchi and Bhagalpur every
quarter, with reference to the objectives and scope of work set out in the TOR.
The committee shall give observations/ comments/ suggestions, if any, and the
consultant shall incorporate the same. The committee may also hold meetings with
the consultant, as necessary, for the above purpose.



-78-
Annex ol
Attachbmen
Pace I of 8
INDIA
RIHAR  ATRAU npWRLopMENT pRojECT
Minor Trrigat ion ComR2nan
T~r&in4ing ProaraM
1.        The training requirements for the project are at two levels  - for the
engineers and professionals of other disciplines to better design and to assist in
forming beneficiary groups, and for the beneficiaries themselves. Both levels are
important. The new and rehabilitated schemes to be developed under the minor
irrigation and Panchayat systems must be well conceived, designed and constructed
in order to be operable and durable, and to perform as intended. The beneficiaries
must in the project be prepared to take over the schemes for operation and
maintenance (O&M), to protect the facilities, and to pay for much of the running
costs.
Engineer Trainina
General
2.       The level of technical  competence in the Minor Irrigation Depnttment (MID)
and BHALCO is not considered adequate to support a fast moving program envisaged
under the project. Many engineers are long out of their degree or diploma courses
and have, as is normal in government service, been dealing with mainly
administrative matters since. In the Rural Development Department (RDD) the matter
is exacerbated by having engineers who are generalists with little or no hydraulics
training.
3.       In the project, there is a need to give specialist training to engineers in
the following subjects to prepare them for their roles:
-     scheme identification;
-     scheme planning;
-     preparation of schematic designs and costings;
-     detailed design;
-     operation procedures;
-     legal aspects;
-     safety of structures;
-     yield and flood hydrology  principles;
-     system simulation;
-     procurement procedures;
-     water mananagement systems;
-     organisation of beneficiaries into groups;
-     construction supervision;



-79-                                 Annex 4
Attachmen& 3
PALe 2 of I
-     materials testing and quality control;  and
-     management practices and monitoring;
4.       The State Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI) in Patna would
conduct the required training. Meanwhile the requirements and numbers of students
are given below based on the projections of the project requirements.
Desigfn Call
S.       The Cell wouldbe managed by a Superintending Engineer (SE), and below him
as section heads will be tbree Executive Engineers (EF), earch responsible for
-     head of design, Ranchi main cell;
-     head of procurement and contracts, Ranchi main cell; and
-     head of design sub-cell at Dumka (Santhal Parganas region).
The design and procurement staff would comprise 14 Assistant Engineers (AE) and 14
Junior Engineers (JE). They would be supported by 12 drafting and techoical drawing
staff. The Cell would also have two computer programers.
6.       These staff at the central design level, on whom the project depends for
the quality of designs and the prompt processing of large number of contracts (up to
70 in a year), must be of the highest intellectual calibre in MID, and they should
be specially selected and paid special allowances in order to attract and retain the
best talent in the department.
7.        Training in those subjects pertinent to the work of the Cell would be
provided at WALMI, Patna, where facilities are being developed.   It is envisaged
that minimum course durations of 8 weeks would be required.
8.         The training course(s) for the initial Cell staff would be held as soon
as possible, as the first year's schemes must be brought to final design standard
before construction starts. As staff rotate after two or three years normally,
further courses would be glven as above in the third year of the project to refresh
existing staff and train new staff.
Monitorin/O&M Call
9.       The staffing composition of this Cell located in Ranchi is as follows:
1 Superintending Engineer i/c
3 Executive Engineers
9 Assistant Engineers
21 Junior Engineers.
The role of this Cell is also of vital importance to the prompt processing of
schemes to permit the project to proceed as predicted.  A major role of the Cell is
to organize farmers' groups for minor irrigation schemes.



-80-                                 Annex 4
Attachment 3
Pgae 3 ogf 
10.      The roles of the Cell are:
- monitoring of project progress;
- formation and assisting farmers' groups;
- water management and operating procedures instruction;
_        - arranging farmers' training; and
- maintenance of schemes, including advice to farmers on routine
maintenance, and the provision of more complex maintenance.
11.      To reflect these roles, training would be in two subjects:
(i) monitoring functions
(ii) farmers' groups and beneficiary participatlon, training of farmers;
system operation and maintenance.
It is proposed that one month residential courses in each subject would be held
at WALM1, Patna. The participants would include:
(i) monitoring
1 BE; 2 AE; 2 JE.
(ii) farmers' groups, training, O&M
2 EE; 7 AE; 1 JE.
12.   In addition to the more general activities in the O&M group, it wili
also have the following mobile repair and maintenance specialists of JE grade:
6 JE (civil)
6 JE (mechanical)
6 JE (electrical).
These staff would already be competent technicians, but short courses of about
two weeks duration would be given in their specializations at WALMI, Patna.
Qualitv CQeDXn  a Cll
13.      The staffing and role of the Cell are as follows.  The Cell would be
headed by a Superintending Engineer, and would include:
3 EE; 16 AR; 9 JE.
lt would be divided into two groups:
(i) materials testing
(ii) quality control inspection and monitoring.
id.      As the two functions are separate, and require different training and
backgrounds, little interchangeability is envisaged. Training course would be
provided for both groups at WALMI, Patna. It is considered that one month
resident courses would be required. This could be repeated in Year 3 for newly
recruited staff.



-81-
,Annex^ 
Oaa 4 of a
Rural flvlp.t D.partmn    twier
15.      As the project would include funding of 'Panchayat" schemes, dug wells
and water harvesting tanks (WHT), it is important that the RDD engineers
responsible for their selection, evaluation, design, and supervision of
construction are also trained. This activity is under the District
administration, largely involving the BDO's at the block level.
16.     Training for the RDD EE's and AE's is proposed in the early part of the
project and at about Year 3 for newly recruited staff.
Parmera' Trainina
17.      Training of the beneficiaries is equally important.  The various levels
of training required are outlined below.
water Useers Aecimt long Manaaement
18.       As the WUA's would be registered societies or cooperatives with a
formally elected committee and block leaders, and as the accounting would be
formally controlled, courses are required to train the management in sound group
administration. These would include the following from each WUA:
- Chairman
- Secretary
- Treasurer
These should receive common training at a regional training center in Ranchi.
19.      As the WUA accounts would be formal and open to audit, it is important
the Treasurer and Accountant receive training in their management. Experience
elsewhere has shown that tran3parent and honest accounting is probably the most
important element in successful group operations.  Thus courses specifically
dealing with group and cooperative accounts are essential. It is proposed that,
these members be given an intensive 7-day course at an institute in Ranch in
accordance with the syllabus.
Block~ Leadarm
20.     It is proposed that one block leader from each WUA should receive
training in system operation, rotational water supply principles, scheduling,
irrigation methods, and irrigated crop production. It is intended that they
would on their return to their groups impart their training to other block
leaders.



-82-                                 Annax-A
aStachment L
Pace 5 of a
21.     In the schemes within the WUA'S, a salaried water guard and/or pump
operator would be included. He would be responsible for operating the systems,
and to carry out minor maintenance. Training is therefore required. It is
proposed to divided the training into those applicable to gravity schemes and to
lift schemes. One week courses are suggested.
EAXMS=
22.     A general training camp would be held on the scheme site of the WUAs.
This would take the form of a Mela (camp), in which the training agency visits
the scheme with training aids such as posters, VCP and television, slides etc,
and familiarizes the farmers with the scheme on the system and its operation.
Prnae Uvllab;i
Part A - Engineer Trainina
1. Dreln Cell. MTD
Design and Procurement staff
- scheme identification and reconnaissance level design;
- hydrological evaluation, yield and floods (with computer models);
- crop water requirements;
- resource and demand resolution, computer simulations;
- preparation of schematic designs and costings;
- design of pumps and motor installations, safety measures;
- dam design, including spillways;
- dam safety precautions, design floods;
- design of distribution network, lining criteria;
- hydraulics of control structures;
- design and layouts of on farm works, water courses, linings;
- involvement of farmers in layout planning;
- drainage considerations, runoff indeces;
- environmental effects, catchment protection;
- cost estimates - DSR'S, contingencies; expenditure schedules;
- Bank procurement procedures;
- assembly of tender documents; and
- contract law and practices.
2.    i      lM Call
a) Monitoring staff
- critical path networks and PERT;
- Management Information Systems;
- key indicators for monitoring;
- introduction to Bank supervision and documentary requirements;
- management practices;
- financial evaluation;
- physical progress indicators;



-83-
- physical progr es indicators;
- preparation of documentation for Management Com_ittee meetings:
- future construction program identification,
- budgets and accounts;
- environmental observations.
b)  OM staff
- techniques for working with farmers, gaining trust and
confidence;
- roles of beneficiary groups;
- steps in forming groups; legal framework surrounding
cooperatives and registered societies;
- minor irrigation maintenance requirements and procedures;
- water management and system operation, rotational water supply;
- accounting procedures in registered societies;
- facilities for farmer training available;
- role and function of extension service, Department of
Agriculture.
c) Technical Maintenance staff
Individual courses in Civil, Mechanical and Electrical engineering
to ensure full familiarization with major repair and maintenance
of dams, gates, motors, pumps, and switchgear for minor irrigation
schemes.
3. Oualit Contrl Call
a) Materials Testing Group
- strength of materials;
- Indian Standards specifications for construction materials;
- introduction to equipment available;
- detailed operation and maintenance of equipment for project
laboratories;
- specific details of concrete, mortar and soils testing;
- recording of results;
- interpretation and analysis of results;
- reporting of resultv;
- intensive practical training on quipment.
b) Quality Control Inspection Group
- needs for vigilance and control of works, examples of poor
works;
- Indian Standards pertaining to construction methods and
materials;
- approach to site inspection, with emphasis on impartiality;
- check lists of inspections for different types of works;
- reporting of substandard works;
- role of mobile QC units.



-84-                            Attachnent 3
4*Sl2 at 9r
4. 
- scheme selection criteria;
- requirements for beneficiary participation and agreement to form
WUAs groups;
- site inspection, scheme layouts;
- preliminary designs and costing;
- estimates of likely benefits;
- inventory of land acquisition and human displacement required;
- scheme construction phasing; economic indicators;
- scheme operation and maintenance characteristics; environmental
effects, positive and negative;
- catchment protection measures;
- roles and characteristics of Panchayat type schemes, and their
evaluation.
5.            l      :      tmnt: Rnginar
- scheme identification and selection procedures under the project;
- resource estimation and scheme sizing;
- design of gravity and lift schemes;
- characteristics of diesel engines;
- safety of dams and electrical/mechanical components;
- formation of farmers' groups;
- cost estimates;
- environmental aspects;
- land acquisition and human displacement estimates;
- maintenance procedures;
1.    _ae tie           C_oeato   _aaem
- the benefits of group responsibility for schemes;
- details of societies and cooperatives which WUA's could join;
- legal rights and obligations of registered societies and
cooperatives;
- elementary management techniques;
- procedures for carrying out scheme maintenance, with the need to
involve KID;
- financial accountability, budgeting water charges, accounting
procedures;
- relations with Gram Panchayat;
- possibilities and benefits of extending cooperative activities
to LAMPS, and for credit and marketing;
- environmental responsibilities;
- catchment stabilization.



-85-
Pace a of A
2. &ceoan ta
- basic accounting procedures;
- banking procedures;
- routine group financial control and monitoring;
- audits and inspections;
- printing and issuing of receipts and vouchers.



-86-
Annex 
EPgg lof 3
3~tnninand PinAne4Al AnA1yVAM
1.       OyAr-viw.  The project would adopt a wholistic approach to development
of the largely tribal area of southern Bihar through investments in irrigation
infrastructure to enable greater returns in agricultural activities, rural roads
to foster conmerce and mobility, watershed treatment to protect the environment
and increase returns from formerly unproductive land, and drinking water
facilities to improve the health of the area population. Specifically,
irrigation on about 27,500 ha of land would be enabled/upgraded; about 1,200 km
of rural roads would be constructed or upgraded; about 10,000 ha of watershed
would be improved; and about 13,000 drinking water wells would be installed.
2.       Finanrial Anaslis.  Table 1 shows the land holding pattern in the
project area. Holdings tend to be small with almost 60% of area farmers owning
less than one ha of land; about 75% of farmers in the project area till less than
2 ha. Tablea 2 - 4 simmarize The projected impact of the project on these
farmers and their families.  Without the project, these farmer would continue to
produce principally kharif crops dominated by paddy at relatively low yields.
With the project, irrigation and road infrastructure would facilitate greater
cropping intensity and yields with diversification into higher value crops like
wheat, maize, as well as a variety of summer and winter vegetables. Three farm
models have been developed (0.4 ha, 1.0 ha and 1.8 ha). The smallest farmera
would increase net family incomes by about 70% (Rs 1190 to 2050): medium-sized
farmers would achieve increases of about 180% (Rs 2000 to 5660); and larger
growers would derive net family income increases of about 75% (Rs 5300 to 9275)
with the project. It is anticipated that such income growth would be achieved
over a five-year period from access to improved irrigation water. Through
project activities, about 2.25 million additional mandays of agricultural labor
would be created annually, 75% of which would be in irrigated crops. In
addition, the multiplier effect of the project is expected to be considerable as
the general economy of the area improves, thereby generating additional, though
unquantifiable, employment opportunities and benefits. Incremental production
generated with the project as well as incremental employment is unmnarized in
Table 5.
3.       RgonomTc AnalyAal.  The economic life of the project was assumed to be
30 years in view of the longer-term nature of project investments. The economic
analysis of the project was done in constant 1992 prices using May 1992 world
market commodity price projections.  This analysis examined three types of
project investments--minor irrigation, rural roads and watershed management. No
evaluation was done for the drinking water component because of the difficulties
in quantifying the associated benefits. Similarly no separate analysis was done
for the seeds and livestock activities because of its pilot nature and small
size; however, the economic analysis of with-project crop activities captured the
increased value of improved seed, reflecting higher quality and higher processing
and storage costs. Economic costs were derived from the project's detailed cost
tables (Annex 1, Tables 1-5), excluding taxes and duties and price contingencies.
Costs of overall project implementation administration were apportioned to the



-87-
Annax 5
three investment activities analyzed based on each's contribution to base costs.
All local costs and non-tradeables were converted to border prices by using a
standard conversion factor of 0.0. Vehicles and machinery were assumed replaced
every five years. As regards tradeable commodities, import parity prices have
been calculated on the assumptions that foodgrain production would continue to
stagnate and that India will be a marginal importer of both grains and
fertilizers. Financial and economic prices used in project analyses are given in
Tables 6 and 8.   The economic cash flows for the three analyzed investments and
for the total project are given in Table 9.
4.       Benefits of the lr±gajtion component of the project would be derived
from increased cropping intensity, higher yields, and a switch to higher value
commoditioes, particularly wheat and vegetables made marketable through new road
infrastructure. Full production would be acheived in Year 10 of the project,
reflecting both the construction of project works (five years) and the gradual
build-up rate of incremental yields and intensity (five years).   Estimates of
incremental crop benefits and costs from irrigation were made based on with- and
without-project cropping patterns for minor irrigation tanks, panchayat minor
schemes, water harvesting tanks and dugwells presented in Tables 10 - 13, and
individual crop budgets given in Tables 14-23. The irrigation component is
expected to yield an economic rate of return (ERR) of about 13% and yield a net
present worth (NPW), discounted at the assumed opportunity cost of capital of
12%, of about Re 47.1 million
5.       Project z.aSa are expected to invigorate significantly the economy of
the project area by enabling access to agricultural inputs and marketing of
outputs, increased access to health facilities, administrative services,
education and off-farm employment, as well as a general opening up the area.
Economic analyses of roads have generally assumed a number of indicators to value
benefits, including savings in costs of operation of vehicles, savings in
perishable coUmodities such as milk and vegetables, increased productivity with
passenger time saving, and increased portage of vehicles as a result of saved
travel time. Table 24 sets out the three benefits quantified for the analysis.
As presented therein, a traffic pattern has been estimated for a typical project
road and from this, operating cost savings, increased productive labor, and
increased productive use of vehicles were calculated. Each of these benefits
were estimated on an annual per km basis and expanded using the projected
implementation schedule for construction of roads. To accommodate likely
increase in area traffic as the project is implemented and the area economy is
stimulated, traffic was assumed to rise by 5% p.a. over 10 years after
construction of a given road. Because project roads would benefit sectors other
than agriculture (e.g., health, education, public administration), only 50% of
economic capital and recurrent roads costs were included in the economic
analysis. Based on these calculations, the component's ERR was calculated at 21%
and its NPW at Re 369.1 mlllion. All other road benefits were considered to be
non-quantifiable.
6.       The proposed watershad treatment activity would increase productivity of
arable dryland (rainfed crops and fruit cultivation) through better moisture
retention and a variety of forestry products and pasture on non-arable land.
Marketing of incremental fruit and forestry products would be enabled through the
project-funded road network. Although watershed treatment is expected to have
broader environmental and economic benefits than these directly quantifiable



-88-
Ann^ei S
ones, the analysis for the project was limited to those. Tables 25 - 29 prosent
the with- and without-projoect crop budgets for dryland farming aotivitis: Tables
30 - 32 give per ha budgets for horticultural tree crop activities: and Tables 33
- 35 present forestry and silvipasture activities. As a result, the watershed
treatment carried out under the project is expected to yield an IRR of about I33
and NPW of 3.3 million.
7.       The economlc analysis for the entire project roquired an aggregation of
the cost and benefit streams for the three components discussed above. This
process yielded a weighted average ERR for the total project of 17% and an
aggregate NPW of R 419.6 million (US$ 16.1 million).
S.        .n.tvvis    AnaV&yi. Switching values were calculated on the total
project cost and bonefit streams. According to this analysis, benefits would
need to drop by 286 or costs increase by 38% to reduce the ERR to the Opportunity
Cost of Capital of 12% (or the NPW to 0). Both of these scenarios are considered
highly unlikely. Arbitrary increases in costs and decreases in benefits were
also done as follows to test the sensitivity of the base ERR and NPW:
ISIM        NPM          NIH
(Rs N)     CUSS M)
Base Case                         17%       419.6         16.1
Benefits -10%                     15%       268.2         10.3
Benefits -15                     14%       192.5          7.4
Coots +10%                        15S       301.1         11.6
Benefits lagged 2 yrs             13%       112.5          4.3
Benefits -10%, Costs +10%         14%       158.7          6.1
Theie results suggest that the project's ERR is rolatively robust when subjected
to sorious benefit shortfalls and cost escalation. Tho conservative nature of
benefit estimations and delay-avoidance measures built into the project's design
reinforce confidence in results (para 9).
9.          RUM.  Despite the relatively weak management of government
departments and the poor budgetary support which have characterized previous
Bank-financed projects in Bihar, the project includes a number of Lnnovations to
increase chances of project success. The project has been designed to minimize
government involvement. User groups would be involved actively in project
planning, implementation, evaluation, and, importantly, ownership and maintenance
of project facilities. This is expected to instill a sense of beneficiary
responsibility in the decision-making asset-upkeep processes. Budget clearance
procedures and expenditure authorizations have been streamlined to avoid delays.
Xncremntal yields and build-up have been relatively conservatLvely estimated:
and, as discussed above, only quanititfiable benofits have been included,
suggesting that actual not returns to project investments would be higher than
estinated.



-89-
Annex 5
Tabl-e 1
Land HoldMng
S4 wange         bMilionHa            I      Aeage          H              I
Sie (Ha)    Holdi
(MillioWnas)
Less thfanHa             43         15.6          0.4         9.8        59.4
I to2 Ha                 3A         12.8          1.5         2.5         15.2
2 to 4 Ha                6A         22.5          2.2         2.4         14.5
4to 10 Ha                9.1        31.5          6.1         1.5         9.1
More than 10             5.1        17.6           17         0.3         1i
TOAL                                              IA i1XQ



-90-                      Anne S
S  a    S~ ~ ft 4
s~~ 1  * ~~- 9o             m
d  5
I                 S~~~~~~~ 
104    !  I  '  I     I               *  3   
''ii    a"  8   °        8    8 -       
II  II                     11111   a8 i 
~I       3                    3ss f        f       



BM       RATA  DVin.^ PROEr
FARM MOR  hataim
PAM MGM   I m fm3mMmayafmula                                           H
No                 Mai  bb&                 E
ai                UPldPAd                  an15     15     120      10      2.4       04      4       4      36 2U                  26        54         S         36
Plou          0Ql      10       a0       0       5         0     Z30      0    300         1            124       44         a2 m
MdU.          0A5       5       60     120       3       025      UD     30    210          1           153      1U          A         I
UmIdAi      dy 1s   o0 SD                                 2.4     0Q4    1440   240   im            1mW          05         U         w         im
Lowbmad PAW              02      20      240     260      2.4      04      6M    1       7           412         316        72        144       40
la                Uplad                      a      0        0       0        0        0        0      0      0          0            0         0         0          0
Midland                    0      0       0        0       0        0        0      0      0           0           0         0         0          0
Low4d hMuld             OAS       5       25      0        7        0      175      0    m            95         n7          2         a        IV
bt*wmdbws.mn                                 a      0        0       0       0         0       0      0      0           0           0         0          0         0
MUAL                                       INS    105                                                      3449        2061        15         20S        410      199
'how              Uplnd   Paddy             02     20      240     240      24        04   . 85    15    W             432         S90        7.2       144        no
Mdi.           Ql      10    2MD       400       3      02i      600   lD0   7D0          .36          354         5        1          f64
m d  Paddy                S      5        0 120    0      2.4      0A4   230    443    340          1780D  1904D 45 0   2D
L_W.lmdaid 12                    20     410      SD0      24       A4    1i       200 135            m            440        9        1t       6g
ABU                Upl4An    Usned                   0       0        0       0        0        0      0      0           0           0         0         0
M&d4d  Whmt              01      10      22D     230       3        .      6t0    92      5          36          3a        4.5        s         39
Mubsd         OS       S       40       0       7         0     230      0    230         1,           103       IS         30       13
P.            0UC       5      4C0       0      12        0      460      0    480        3X5          1         25          So       225
L,W4I d Plato/Veq        gs       5     1250      0       0.7       0      05       0    875         475         400         2        40        40
Hwmd_              U _                        0      0        0       0       0        0        0      0      0           0           0                   0          a
MIdland                   0      0        0       0        0        0        0     0      0           0            0
Low.wd VqM              OIC      5      790       0        1        0      700     0  7C             356         36         3                   6e
TOTAL                                     13    1                                          am      93   91           4977        414       17.2      1t1        95



SHRPLAU   Pve_n   acr 
FARM MYOEL [S  I&
Lu~~IinUu~         aim  am DWMaWUg  1bf                                        mlJRL EiUIUi   tNg   mixb ULiz hwb
3a  Eu il  hmd in            Emi lAL
lAlt             P         AC L
Khulf         Uplanrd   PqanuMd          02      11     160      240        3      0.4      480     2  552           230        322          7        140        42
P oSam pe      0.15     8       n0      150       5      03       60       45  645          212       433         4.5        90         523
Maie            0.1   Ss      120     240        3    0.25       360      60  420          114        ^           3         60         376
Midland  Paddy              1    55    1500    160          2.4     0.4    3600    640  4240          2125      211S         18        360        1030
Low4and  Paddy            035   20D5      8t      875       24      DA      2t0D    350  2450         1369      1081          8        160        1241
RdAI          Up4ad                        0      0       0        0        0       0         0      0     0           0         0           0          0          0
MIdlUad                     0      0        0       0        0        0        0      0      0           0         0          0          0          0
Lowland  Mustrd            0.1    .5      SO       0        7        0      35D      0   35D          196       t51          4         EO         234
TOTAL                                    19  1055                                          7490         8657        4246       4411       44.5        890       5301
Wilhd~frrlaU     Projec
lOiwf         Uplard    Paddy            02      11     240      240      2.4      OA       896     96   992         432       560         72         144        706                       t
Maize           0.1    55      200     400        3     025       60      100  700         346        354          5        100        454
lngaU et    0.15        8      180     210        3      OA       540     84  624          300        324          6        120         444
Md-land  Paddy              I    55    2400    2200         2.4     OA      5760    80 6640           3560      308D         40        800        3880
Low-lad  Paddy            035   205        ao    9g0        2.4     0.4     192D    38D  2300        1225       1073          9        18D        1255
RaM
Mid4&.d  Wbat              02     11      440     460        3   . OA       1320    184  15i4         788        716          9        18D        896
Potao           0.1    55    2500        0       0.7      0      1750      0  175D         950        8DD          4         8D        680
Pon            0.4     25      400       0       12        0      4S0      0   480         305        175         2S        5D        22
Low4and  Muemd            0.05    25      40        0        7       0       25D      0  20           177        103         1S         30        1s
HotWmtba
Uplad                       0      0       0        0        0       0         0      0     0           0          0                     0          0
Md4and                      0      0       0        0        0       0         0      0     0           0          0
Low4and Vq abs            O5      3     700        0        1       0       7Q0      0  70           356        344          3         6D        40O
Toal                                   13 133                                        14216         15970       8439.    7531          872       1741       9J:



-93-
Anex 5
Table S
INDIA
BIHAR PLATEAU DEVELOPMEENT PROJECT
Incremental Production and Employment
Unit   Incremental Production 1)
Crops    ,,_
Paddy                        ton            18960
Maize/Ragi                   ton             2810
Pigeon Pea                   ton             330
Wheat                        ton            14660
Vegetables                   ton            56380
Fruit                        ton             4380
Forest Products                             Year 10         Year 20
Poles                        1000            600             1280
Fuelwood                  1000 tons           35              70
Fuelwood (loppings)       1000 tons           35              180
Timber                     1000 m3            7               11
Fodder/Grass              1000 tons           1 0             18
Bamboo                       1000             60             200
Annual Employment
Irrigated Crops          1000 mandays.       1665        1)
Horticulture (fruit)     1000 mandays        238         2)
Forestry                 1000 mandays        300         3)
Dryland Farming          1000 mandays         52        11)
Total                                        2255
1) Year 10 onwards
2) Year 14 onwards
3) Approximate annual average, will rise to 590,000 and 660,000
mandays In Years 10 and 20, respectively, with concentrations of first and
second harvests.



INDIA
BHA PLATEAIJ DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Import Party Prcs
Unit         Urea (1)   TSP (2)    MP (3)    Paddy     Wheat    Soybean
WouddPrcbe(Yr2000,constant        US$/mt         116        90        71        185       115        160
1985, pt of export)
Aqj Factor to adjust base yr                     1.53      1.53      1.53       1.53      1.53       1.53
Word Pce adj to '92 base          US$/mt       177.48    137.70    108.63    283.05    175.95    244.80
Quaity Adjustment                 %              100       100        100       80        100        100
World Mkt Equivalent              US$/mt       177.48    137.70    108.63    226.44    175.95    244.80
eIntemational Shipping, Ins.     US$1mt          50        50        50         40        50        50
CIF Indla Port                    US$/mt       227.48    187.70    158.63    266.44    225.95    294.80
Exchange Rate                     Rs/US$         26        26         26        26         26        26
CIF ndia Port                     Rslmt        5914.48   4880.20   4124.38   6927.44   5874.70   7664.80
+Pont Charges (4)                Rs/mt         300        300       300        350       350       350
+Intemal Transport (4)          Rs/mt          380        380       380       270        270       270
*Intemal Mkding & Handling (4)   Rs/mt          150       150       150        150       150       150
Subtotal                      Rs/mt        6744.48   5710.20   4954.38   7697.44   6644.70   8434.80
Processing RaUo. Main Product     %              100       100       100        62       95 (6)      100
Value Byproduct (4)               Rs/mt           -                    -      1400 (5)      -         -
Processing Rato Byproduct         %               -         -          -         4
-Processing costs (4)            Rslmt           -          -         -         80         -
Wholesale Value                   Rslmt        6744.48   5710.20   4954.38   4828.41   6312.47   8434.80
+I-transport tolfrom farmoate (4)  Rslmt        160       160       160        160       160        160
+/- bocal mkto costs (4)         Rslmt          30         30        30        30         30        30
Farmgate Price                    Rs/mt        6934.48   5900.20   5144.38   4638.41   6122.46   8244.80
Farmgate Prie                     Rs/kg         6.93       5.90      5.14      4.64       6.12      8.24
Farmgate Pdce                     Rs*g nutrient  15.40    12.83      8.57
(1) 45% N.             (3) 00% K.                      (5) Rice bran; husk assumed to have zero value.
(2) 46% P.            (4) Financial value SCF; SCF - 0.80    (6) Assumes 5% loss In cleaning.
at %A~



-95-                   ~~~~~~~AflfX 3
INDIA                     Table 7
BIHAR PLATEAU DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial and Eoonomic Farmgate Prices - Inputs
Finianciai Price Economic Price
Unit       (Rs)          (Rs)
N                          kg nutrient    7.00         15.40
P                          kg nutrIent    8.00         12.83
K        ,                 kg nutrient    3.00         8.57
FYM                           ton        100.00        80.00
gypsum                        ton       1000.00       800.00
bullock labor               pairday      25.00         20.00
human labor                 manday       20.00         16.00
Paddy (midland)     w/o       kg          3.00         4.64
W/        kg         6.00          7.64     1)
Paddy (upland)      w/o       kg          3.00         4.64
W/        kg         4.00          7.64     1)
Maize               w/o       kg          4.00         5.80      2)
w/ Ikg               6.00          8.80     1) 2)
Finger MUliet (Ragi)    wlo   kg          3.00         2.40
WI        kg         4.00          3.20
Wheat                         kg          4.00         9.12      1)
Mustard                       kg          8.00         11.24     3)
Cauliflower                   kg         400.00       320.00
Capicicum                     kg         400.00       320.00
Cucumber                      kg         50.00         40.00
PIgaon Pea                    kg          8.00         6.40
Pea                           kg         12.00         9.60
French Bean                   kg         15.00         12.00
Okra                          kg         25.00         20.00
Brinjal                       kg         400.00       320.00
Carrot                        kg         200.00       160.00
Potato                        kg          1.20         0.96
Guava seedling                            5.00         4.00
Mango seedling                           15.00         12.00
Citrus seedling                          15.00         12.00
1) Premium of Rs 3.00 added to economic output price to reflect Improved varietdes and
additional costs of better processing and handling.
2) Maize on Intemational market Is predominantly sold as a feedgrain. whereas
project-related maize grown as a foodgrain. Therefore, economic maize price exrapolated
from paddy price as follows: Pe/Pf - MeiMf
where,            Pe . economic paddy price
Pf . financial paddy price
Mt . financial maize price
Me - economic maize price
3) Soybean economic price used as a proxy mustard economic price.



!  -96--                          Annex S
Table 8
NDA
EAR PLATEAU DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Finan¢ial and Economic Farmgate Pricss Outputs
Financial Prie Economlc Prbe
Unit       (Rs)          MRa)
Paddy                        ton         2400         4638
Paddy Straw                   ton        400           320
Maize                         ton        3000         5798       1)
Maize Straw                  ton         250           200
Finger Milet (Ragi)          ton         3000         2400
Finger Milet Straw            ton        400           320
Wheat                         ton        3000         6122
Wheat Shusa                   ton        500           400
Mustard                       ton        7000         8245       2)
Mustard Stalks                ha          50           40
CaulMower                    ton         1200          960
Capockum                     ton         1500         1200
Cucumber                      ton        1200          960
Pigon Pea                     ton        5000         4000
Pea                          ton         1400         1120
French Bean                   ton        1500         1200
Okra                         ton         1500         1200
Brinjal                      ton         1000          800
Carrot                        ton        1200          960
Potato                        ton        700           560
Guava                        ton         1000          800
Mango                        ton         2000         1600
Citus                         ton        500           400
PoWs                                    8.0  12      6.4 - 9.6
Tlmber                        m3         1000          800
Bamboo (10)                   ton          3           2.4
Twigs/Loppings                ton         50           40
Gri1                          ton         150          120
Fodder                       ton         350           280
1) Maize on International market is predominantly soW as a feedgrain. whereas project
relad make grown as a foodgrain. Therefore, economlc maize pric extrapolated from paddy
prke as follows: Pe/Pf - M/IMf
where        Pe * economic paddy price
Pf * financial paddy prie
Mf W  financial maize price
Me * economic maize price
2) Soybean eownomic prie used as a proxy mustard economk price.



II- 
a..-.            sew    nee           sew        see,      ses        sel  nns    -os                sm        ess        ull       use        osss      er4i   5'si          muses       u
to ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~         ~        ~        ~ ~                       
gm        gout       etits     "St        sotes     Om         toes      eo O       O         am         sa        "u        st         Nw        OUt-    ILO          UN-                     loon-
*0e       tee    *see          ree        ree       ws         ages       ee,       sees      ates      seas       sees      sets       usl  loss           we         ses       see           u @oz  _
01   N         01o        No         9409       n         In$       NN        no         I05       Om                              an01 @    41n       Om         go                      4"9eu
sect       ee        tofa      ru1t       1ee       sees       see       sees       see        Wee      sees       seos      sees       see       so"t      roet       tees      anOL
ste                                                 u"t oe                                                                              un        on        *e         gas        *too
WE        eW         uss       c    Os    tl        CULS       I"5 u      ase      net        en        Loe        001   * N            Su.       VW-       555-  __ S
XN   ge e   KSN           IL        X151       50         50 @   Ltee         50         Il        LN        us         CL         51-       5-        5L-        i-        5
ng        "s         0ss       It         61        I"        Su        oil    K             41a                  Ott       se a                 ts-       e4.        ali.      9 -_
Srel     4NO         ast      "e         got         5L       550       Ewe    * L9           WI        N5        OL        tNo         110-      4011-     WL-        on .       5
Lim       tels       £550      LOS,      *Ol        Let st  "eaee                   5S,       sin      0"b-       ftes-      Lass-      ela-.     wk         ge,:      sWi       gs
ee        gm         es"        em                  at         "to      "eo        ee         Oe        Oak        us        gm         out   *us                      of        *
"Mst    fasse         Wases    oooss      SteeLs    emess    ssemi    sweet    seaLs          Lsti9     "Nots    osIps        "Mlos     LC5S      aslow      muss-   swan-   simm-PN
gm5       0596      tOL        Oms       0Gm        NW         Otte      east       am        wet       NW         OmL       OmN        LOGO      $own5    #5150       tones    esOISI
cm         e                                                                                                                            ao ets              stnat      oat        u U  en nu  et  N  e  e  eF  g  ___ I___
nie       iesm       sa           L       ease      usi        sea       sem        ue        ue        use        smeKs     us         ost       OLU        wie       us      eN                              -
c                                                                                                                                       seese  e  wow  et see  se e    Ot "su nf ssUt
*urzns    sesme      seis      soese      ases  Uses           sesa    ase   us a    gens    sus    ess    essoe                        oege      uesuc same           sews 
ngee      "Bee       cog        sse                 5155       ss cost              "it       "at        sew       mue      fte         soot      Ien      gou         no         a           *        WWI_
hess  Sleet      55055     seses      sar       sues      mus s      uses   csLui        *nn esess  SOs         ses                 eus       $cm        oes       s          glsss  _
seego         sa     esessa    euw         sss      ses         aW         sm       seCte     gloa    ern         ugem       e s        saew      isme      ose           U  _ens   e      _      |_o_
met       eVMS%    e*          ea         s eas     gis        east      me t       east      eaas      seas *ees            eves       aU        eim       "en        ese        asos           sas4m
ut~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                                                                                           sac       us         us        w e              -sousra uu  aa u._
ra         ue        sowe       wew   see           se         swe       see         we        O          u        sue       sees        u        sees       sew    U*S        e _
ges       sansn   Use          nest       noes   unne          nst       s_st       esit      et us      wise   *ese    nu              mt        ewe    __t            os
slow      esteet    sgsu       egaw       sgs        slm$    esaw        ssltm   loste        see       usom       uros 1Ss             MM. UUa             on"   _       s      5
egs       cress      ss        Oms        a"        *nt        s          gm       gs        sg         gm           "e      use sm                            se  _
U00       sue    Uease         egos       egos   Unw   UUee                sen   un.          ease      eCe        sew       saU        easo       we       o      *          __
ese_o  ages      ages       ases      uses n      oes      ages       age, *     s-A s     snag      egees     geese      SOON      u *_    lA r         east                  m u                     ot _
mum        gag        mum   I um          mUme   mum            mum       sin       mum    sale        an         Igu       gum         sum          um       g sosum              sum                 m um
(puwesou *sa)
8s8LTewu aoiqew2o;3ouo
33OUL £MZNiO'IG n.Rio XlVII
.aRrold                               muVta



*   C4
0
~~~~~~~~~~as                                  tEm      se        m at  @*tows       mes  tsa            m       sas       sa       sit  Xesims^
eisa   toms       ouz  sens   Im              05        U                 ems      sass     tOS       lis
s~  ~ ~ a                                                  s ass "$ *$ ll l   "l ug     t"         "   
ga      190      Om        in       tus       IMt      9966                Wsg *2zs  zes¢,  w 
m-~
v * ~~em                      as        us       ma        ma       as,       am ~
*  5    n     n             0         5"       at         f       as 
*   5                  a~~~~~    0        5         110      gms       me       meo       ma4      Wous
Wi  am,  asat  sins    ama       sass     seas~ ~~~~~~ oni   aft      ti        ata       asug-mnt
mis      et        e         *m mm    _es wa   ea        swe      seas      eNe      esam     ss         tea_
esma    semi    seaass    warns    gl5    mama    ss,mo            wn        a        ins   'ars    aens.
mm   mm       esos~~I.  ..,p      me       m        m        m         m        m4m 
gaas.    mm.    sites sass.    sees,    mes
|                                    _|~~~~~~~~~~assa    mass    sasas  amass          U  tags    aasas    sitas  mus  asas    ams    ge    tot as.
es-t     "a       sa11    Os           i s               m                                                                     gs  a  _a  sts  st  sas
0"4                         "gu s n  st  eat   ass   -9t .           s                        41106111as    -    5
ass    asm        $atin  uat         aS        osa    asssa   sms   u         s      asss    assess  a$sn            4u1111    ua
RTUl   -tsase  s satn       esa      tea e    tap,,    sass. t"ase ""So "Ou te es_                      "Uis s       w
61i11s    dooms    AsOia;    asoma    mast11s    "ag     sa"    saeam    ititi       ss    OagsHaM
sam     sGm                 a"ts  Om Oas       ss        a         assm gmm                   oas       sam
Sun   un   un   do   in   uiw   at   uz   un- uo ua u                                                                    _ _
same     Mt        mm       win e      me      oes e    gn        mele                                                        o n" e   e
Oug    sut  s   ms          ast"$ sluat   8*"    41tu              mats  glut    4arns  Uus    8urns                  tmm e
(puR9nbu * 8l1)
s;sLrvu a    aoi;uua aniu  llo I
a".Uff   a"   U"    Om    a" U3    "Of JMNs"IOKA"totVmLY'W twIt
co" ca  gm   ow       "If       "        cw         m"      on"      9"9        n"      41140        onG NIn



Crop$"g Ztessly - Mnor IrrSaglon SchR  - 15,000ha
MONM  soe                V     am              WrASEm                 CC
WLWa:IN                AM  i s l TOTAL         MEA @m   a l Too        AM Z   S b TOO foW%  Ms 04
hm O"   0240  *0               Mm      at      20to             -                      1
P_mpe          405     10                                                              205
Ma." us                                               -                          150
so      2 a
UIOUAL                  40JO    100 tO                   20-                             120    4M0
IUI"A   "Om -I  )   79.   1oo  _.e    m10              to   V2ts #un   400    .5                0IK
Pam     240      a                                      so
4"
240
rUIATL                  7360    100             20o      30              400      5      135    10740
LaAU.M    Pai  q Om _A   UO so  t oo _ e         s6            V.id    200        10             0o
WpSb    160                                               15f0
P_    so       *                                      60 
h000    tOO            t200     40              200     10      IS0    40
TAL                              t .  *oo       4400     a0              soo     4       134    2000
RI%N*MTWISCKWKSU3UW             SM 1100    134%
Ism~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
B~~~~~~~~e 



9KiRRATEMDEVU.OUNOBETVA
Cropping Intemalty - Panchayat Schm    - 1,50ha
&auocM 6S&l                      UON -&                   HfltWAUSEWM                    CFO
WIDLOCAION                   ANA m-  %. TOTAL                ME) MO       % a Tod          AMA 9    %   iS Told  NIN %  AMA p.
WMA          PO*  _i M&OO    321 aso                VAN        s0        20                              -
_1PMFM             41         10     '
,           |-Ma                4S         S                                       *.
hIDUrAL                        406                             s   o                                              d  ,10 4,5
~IU4MS    Pug qud  wImm)    7U    * oo              Who        210       26      We_M         40         5
Pam        40         5
SIUTOAL                        736        100                   03                           40         5         a        10S5
U.AND        PhibjjIum. (ba O   300       100       VANu       *0        t oS Vsp.            as         a                  IM
*  Po     t5         5                                                  140
VegsI*dn     15 
UWOTAL                         300        too                  g0o       40                  ao         a        ISO        450
TaTAL                          I1s0      100                  450        so                  ?0                  Ina       2020
PM CATgcmpmnm                          * IJI  10"0     t36
Uol he
.:HMMMUMMOMMUM                                         13I
'd.  



NRPLATEAU DEVELOPM PFECr
Cropplug Inten6ity - Water Harvasting Tanks - 3,500 ha
MOON  SEASON         WINJER SEASON       HOT WEATHERSEASON      TOTAL      CR
LAND LOCATION                   AREA (H)    -SAREA OD1                     AFEA Ha) CIKPANFEA NTEllNSY M)
IWLAND          Paddy (sho duralion)  750   Wha          185         -
Pigamops            95
Mize                75 
Fkd                25
m    D          Pady (med duratIn)  1855    Wheat       405
Potao       1S O
LOLAND          Paddy     duratIon)  700   Pe            35
V.  staaW     40                     *
Wheal       175         .                          -
TOTAL                              3500                  990                              4485         128
WFMMTHROJECT^                                   
WLAND           Pad                 550
PlpPee            210
FXF           ~~185                 - .
MULAND          Paddy              1855
LOLAND          P                   700     Muaod        s0
TOTAL                              3500                                                   38so         102



INDIA
BWR PIAT    DEVEIDPMENT POJECT
Cropptg pattern - Duagwe  - 1 ha Ibdel
Season      Crop        Area      Yield/ha    Production   Intensity
(ha)       (kg)        (kg)        (%)
Wihout Well    Khaflf     Paddy        0.6        1500        900
Re#         0.4        800         320
Tota                                                                     100
Wfth Well      Kharlf     Padd         0.6        2400        1440                           C
Make        0.4        2000        800
1                                 100
Fk1       wheat        0.2        2500         500
Potato       0.2       25000       5000
0.4                                40
Hot Season    dnai        0.2        15000       3000
0.2                                20
Cropping Intensity wih wel  1.60/1.00 x 100 . 160%
1) One wel assumed to service one ha.



IDIA
A _
Crop Budget - Ilplad Paddy
VWlH NVGA71ON                                WrFHOUT IFMATION
MMs..               Unts          Quanft tUnit Cu fs.) Vaus ( Re.)      Qu0t    Unt Coau(R)  Vake (A)
..... . .... ..                       .  ......  . . ............. . ........ .    . .... . ~ ............... . ..... ... ............. ._I
Kgs               100          4         400              120          3        360
Nitrogen             Kgs                 20          7        140                1 0         7         70
Ph0q9Mnx (P2O5)      Kos                10           8         80                5          8         40
Po_ieuue-(K20)       Kos                 10          3         30                 0          0          0
Fan YAd -Ma,o        Tons                 2        100        200                 1        100        100
Is                   oQuhUals             1        100        100                0         100          0
Pwecldds             Lit                  1        220        220               0.5        220        110
euiI.kPa*s           NM M                12         25      .300                  8         25        2Q0
PlntI.w dkV.etc     NoS                 25         20        500                20         20        400
Harvest,gheshing,etc.  Nos               20         20        400                15         20        300
Watch & Ward          Nos                 0          0          0                 0          0          0
Irrlaon Charg        Rsalh                4         50        200                 0          0          0
Tolal MM Costs       R-                                      2570                                    211S  -
OUwrIU               RsEha
Grn as Paddy         Tons/ha             1.2      2400       2880               0.8       2400       1920
Sow as hay           Tonslha             1.4       400        456               1.2        400        480
TOTALOUTPUT VALUE    Rha                                     3336                                 - .2400
NETREnf* RPsha                                                766                                     460
Fan* bbour                               40         20        800               35          20        700
Not Inoms of De famnb*                                       1566                                    1180



-~hes                          Unts           -.
1  .   Uni6.  Quantity Unit Cost Rs.)  vale ( As)    Quanity Urit CouI(R)    value (R)
.... ....... .  .  ... .. ..  . .... .. ...... .._................~.._......... ..... . ....... .  ~................. ............. ...... .. .... ~....
F8ab                  Kgs                 50           6        300             s0           3        240
Nitrogen             bKg                  40           7        280              15          7         105
Ph_        n(P206)    Kgs                 20           8    .   160              5           8         40
Poulam  (K20)         Ks                  1 0          3         30              0           0           0
Fam Yard Manue        Tons                 3         100        300              2         100        200
Uims*                 Quhntas              0         100          0              0         100           0
Pesticides            Uts                  1         220        220             0.5        220         110
SulockPaks            Nos                 15          25        375              10         25         250        °
Plang.weedng.etc      Nos                 52          20       1040             38          20         760
Harvestjhrshing..tc.  Nos                 28          20        560              18         20         360
Watch & Ward          Nos                  5          20        100               3         20          60
Ikration Charges       sha                 4          50        200              0           0           0
Total Iput Cos       fis                                       3560                                  2125
OUIPU1                Rsfth
Grain as Paddy        Tonsiha             2.4       2400       5760             1.5       2400      - 3600
Str as hay            Tons/ha             2.2        400        880             1.6        400         640
TOTALOUTPUTVALUE   PR h                                        6640                             - . 4240
TNErRE                Rsfta                                    3080                                  2125
Fan* hIour
Net k e of the Xamiy



4
crop 3waet - maim
Unb          Quaniy Unk CouRAs.) Vae (s.)           Qutiy Un Coml(Ra)   Va )
.... ....  . . .. ..  .. ....... ...................e...*   ... .   ............. .......... . .. . .... ......   ---- - - 
SC16                 AllKgs             is          6        108              20          4         s0
F_ -
luamA 16p                               40          7       280               20          7        140
Phupm  w(Pam        Kw                 20          8.       160               10         a         a0
Pduum                 g A               10          3        30                0          0          0
FwmYdMmnuse          TOns                3        100       300                2        100        200
uLk                  oulka               1        100        100               0        100          0
Psslokid             Lks                 1        220       220               0.5       220        110
Bullol* P*8          Nos                 8         25       200                8         25        200
PIarnSg.w s.edkic    Nos            .  45          20       900               35        .20        700
HavesI,U _mdig, GU.   Nos               18         20        360              15         20        300
Wach & Ward          Nos                30         20       600               20         20.       400
irgsein-achugs      Rsfuh               4         50       200                0          0.         0
Tda Input Coss       Rasa                                   3458                                  2210
ouaUT               RAsha
Mie Grain            Tonsiha       .    2        3000      6000               1.2      3000       3600
Sover as hay         Tons/ha           2.2       250        550               2.4       250        600
TOTAL OUTPUT VAWE    Psha                                  3092                                   4200
NEHRETUfN            As/h                                  3080                                   1990  14-
Fwi ILabour          Rsha               55         20      1100               45         20        900
: 



cmp Budet - Fi.r NI..t
WITH IRRIGATION                      WITHOUT IRRIGATION
amuns               Unts          Ousnnty Unit Cog Rs.)  Va  (Rs.)        uwtinly Un*t Cou)    Vau (Bat)
;eb 8                ICp                 10          4         40             12           3         36
.llmgea               ,p                 20          7        140             10          7          70
_pw2timvw)            1rP                10          a         80              5           8         40
PO_Ml(K0)            Vp                  10          3         30              0          0           0
FmVaindMm%m          TOnM                 2        100        200              1         100        100
*m          Quhlds                        1        100        100              0         100          a
ftulaldus            LIS                0.5        220        I10              0          0           0
SulodiPali1          Has                 12         25        300              8          25        200
Labour
Plng      i,  o      Nos                 25         20        500             20          20        400
Hwst.UudishlngO, Io.   Nos               20         2C        400              15         20        300
Waoh & l d           Nos                  0          .0.        0              0     O     0          0
klrd Con Ca          RBu                  3         30         90              0           0          0
TOM IpudCostB RsBb                                           1990                                  1146
.    cwurPu
Grab as Psf          Tonsllia            1.2      3000.      3600             0.8       3000       2400
Sver as Hay          Tonsaha            1.4        400        560             1.2       400         480
TOTALOUTPUTVAWE    RsBha                                     4160                                  2880
NERETlR4             Rsha                                    2160                                  1734
Famly lbour                              40         20        800             35         20         700
Ne Inoome of the fmingy                                      2960                                  2434



Crop Budget - Wheat
WMH RGAION                                  flHUTWON
llOns                 Links          Quantit Unl Cos tRs.)  Value (Rs.)         Ouantly Unk CostRs)  Value (Rs)
........... ............................................................................................................      .
Seede                  Kgs                 120           4         480       Wheat adlhvaton ic not possibe
Feiza                                                                        witoA   igaton
Ntrgen                 Kgs                  40           7         280
Phoqiim (P205)        Kgs                  20            8         160
Potasslum (K20)        Kgs                  10           3          30
Fa.m Yard Mnwe         Tons                  3         100         300
le                     aQuinhals             0         100           0
Pestddes               LIts                 0.5        220         110
SIWock" ps             No8                  1 5         25         375
Labour
Plantinc,wedlng.etc    Ns                   52          20        1040
Harvest,threting.etc.  Nos                  28          20         560
Wah & Ward             Nd                    5          20         100
Idgailon Chaws         Rha                   8          50         400
Toa Input Costs        Rs"a                          .            3935
WUw                    Rsha
Gmb as Wheat           Tons/ha              2.5       3000        7500
Swr as Bkha            Tons/ha               2         500        1000
lIW PJTrVALUE          Rha                                        8500
NErFEITI               RsfIa                                      5065                                                0.
Family labour                               45          .20        900
Net Income of "e fahmly                                           5965
J.



Crop Budget - Mhtsrd
WMIT FIGAITION                  WITH llESWAL MOSIURE IN LOW LAND
1hm                 Uni       Quantity    Unit CostgRs). Vau ( Rs.)       Qualy Unit CAs>t)    Va e(Rs)
.. . . . ... . _.. . ............. . ._._ ..... ... .. _._... ...........................  .............   ......_.  ......... ..     ......        
Snd                  Kgs                 10          8         80               I 0          8         80
Form
Niroen               Kg*                 40          7        280               IS           7        105
Phouphoe! (P206)     Kgs                 30          8        240                5          8          40
Poswdum (K20)        Kg.                 20          3         60                0           0          0
Fom YardLumr         Tons                 3        100        300                0         100          0
LUh                  QulnIS               0        100          0                0         100          0
Peides               Ut.                  1       ,220        220               0.5        220        110
Bulock Pd            Nos                 15         25        375               1 0        25         250
Labou                                                                                                              o
Pknng,weedMg.otc     Nos                 52         20       1040               38         20         760
Haest,thrshingoel    Nos                 28         20        560               18         20         360
Walch & Ward         NOS                  5         20        100                3         20          60
rigaion Charges      Rslha .              6         50        300                0          0           0
Totl Input Cods      Rsia                                    3555                                    1965
OUTPW                RW%a
MIJSTF.              Tosha              0.8       7000       5600               0.5       7000       3500
Stas as fuel         Tons/ha                                   50                                      25
TOTALOUTPUT VALUIE    Ruiha                                  5650                                    3525
NEIrET               Rsha                                    2095                                  - 1580
Fan*y  xbow                              50         20       1000               40         20         800
Ne Inoome of Oe family                                       3095                                    2360



4
Crop Budget - Vegetableet Cauliflower/CapsioualCucuaber
_m                  Ib           OUu*  OalqKFkLu) VMi(R)          Z!  151 css   Vies  a)m    Uunll                                Vim VaWs
_i. I(p                              0.75        400       300                1        400        400               2         50        100
F O
lSMg                Kg.               100         7        700               0           7        560              60          7        420
Pi q'F*g(PIO        go.               60          *        640              Ao          a        320               40          a       320
P _aso    gmK       K                  so          3        10              40          3        120              40          3        1I0
FuiYadU u           Tom                 6        100       600                4        100        400               6        100        s0
Ihe                 auks 0                        0         0                0        100          0               0        100          0
Pu-id                Ll                 3        220       660                3        220        60                1        220        220
UdibPdo              No                20         25        500              20         25        00               20         25        500
LOW
no_, wm     am      NW                 60        20        1600  .           60         20       1200              60         20       1200
Havuil. .mu*eg. as    No               40         20       600               40         20        S00              60         20       1200
W edb * _      NM                30         20       600               30         20        000              30         20        500 O
Igo, Chwgis    R     Adm               10         80       s0                10         so    B 00                 10    8     0        S00
Told Squl_v COIN                                           7380                                  6360                                  6110
Puirn                Taemaon   12               1200      14400               B       1500       9000               8       1200       m0
NIEr EREW            Rno"                                 7020                                   2640                                  3490
FlLabow                                60         20       1200              60         20       1200              60         20       1200
N1',,, dUebX*  RAsI                                       8220                                   3640                                  4690
3!



Crop Budget - Vegetables: Peas/French Bean/hldL
PEAS                                     4EMQ
-us                           QaUuyn h    U1kCoou(A) Vdn(RA4       O     anno 15* COA)    VA.)                 row" 15* am  h    YsA
8b                   Kp  *s0                       12       9g0                20         15        300               10        25        250
_s                     s                30          7        21O               30          7        210              60          7        420
PIN,if! A-, (0       Ks                 so          8        400               50          a        400              40          S        320
Pu.bu(Klq            Kgs                s0          3        ISO               s0          3        16 0             40          3        1I0
FiYwmdl_             Tom                 3        100        300                4        100        400               3        100        300
ba                   c,_Ows              0          0          0                0        100         0                0        100          0
P _sdbs              Los                1.5'      220        330                2        220        440              1.5       220        230
IdPdu m                                 20         25        500               20         25        500              20         25        500
Pkod                 no M               40         20        800               40         20       a60               G0         20       1200
_          _ws.LgtireiIibI.00.    NM    o0         20       1200               40         20        800              60         20       1200
. wlch d a06                            30         20        600               20         20        400              30         20        600        0
hbnm Com             Rd                            s ao      640                6         s0        480               0         80        640
Tdd *PA CaUts        RAlh                                   6090                                   4880                                  5910
Pmbi                 TOu                 6       1406      11200               6        1500      9000                6       1500       e000
NEO AETUdAJ          Rafth                                  S11O                                   4120                                  3090
FuulvLdabw                              sO         20       1200               60         20       1200              60         20       1200
Ni hcms @1 Ole _auI~   Amsf                                 6310                                   5320                                  4290
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S



RDVLEMrRL
Crop Budget - Vegetables: Eggplat t/Carrot
BRIJAL (EGG PLANT)                       CARROTS (Pusa kws" 
Items                Units           Ouandty Uni Cost( Rs.)  Value (Rs.)       Quantt Unit Cost(Rs)  Value (Rs.)
* ........ .......  ..................................................................   ................................. ....     .....     
Seeds                 Kgs                  0.5        400        200                  4        200         800
Niogen                Kgs                 100           7        700                 80           7        560
Phosphorus (P205)     Kgs                  60           8        480                 40          8         320
Potassum (K20)        Kgs                  60           3        180                 60          3         180
Faom Yard Manure      Tons                  6         100        600                  6        100         600
Umo euinlals                                0           0          0                  0        100           0
Pestddes              Uts                   3         220        660                  3        220         660
BuIdock Pah           Nos                  20          25        500                 20         25         500
Labour
Planting.weedtn.etc   Nos                  80          20       1600                 60         20        1200
Harvest,threshing,etc.  Nos                40          20        800                 40         20         800
Watch & Ward          Nos                  30          20         600                30          20        600
Iion Chags            Rsiha                10          80        800                 10         80         800
Total Input Costs     Rs/ha                                      7120                                     7020
OUwUr;
Binjal /Caffots       Tons/ha              15        1000      15000                 10       1200       12000
NET RETURN Aha        Rs/ha                                     7880                                      4980
Famly Labour                               60          20       1200                 60         20        1200
Net oomc of the famiy   Rs/ha                                   9020                                      6180



-112-                         Amz 
j Tsbl! 23
INDIA.
Crop Budget - Potato         !
Items                 Units           Quantity Unit Cost( Rs.)  Value (Rs.)
Seeds                  Kgs                2500           1.2       3000
Fertilizers
Nitrogen               Kgs                   80           7         560
Phosphorus (P205)      Kgs                  60           8         480
Potasslum (1C20)       Kgs                   60           3         180
FarrnYard Manure       Tons                   6         100         600
Sime                   Quintals               0         100           0
Pesticides             Lits                   2         220         440
NuliocePanrs           Nos                   20          25         500
Labour
PhantingPweedin.etc    Man days              52          20        1040
Harvest,threshing,etc.  Man days             75          20        1500
Watch & Ward            Manudays             30          20         600
Irrigation Charges     Rslha                  8          75         600
Total Input Costs      Rs/ha                                       9500
OUTPUT
Potao                 Tons/ha               25         700       17500
NET RETURN             Rs./ha                                      8000
Family   aour          Man days              50          20        1000
NET INCOMEoftefamily  Rs/ha                                        9000



hMRPLAMUlEVELOPMPRDECT
Calculation of lbral Roads Benefits
A. OPwaln Coad Savip
I Number/Das  Numbr of  SaWingskm   SavinusAmfday  Saviikn I
leway ID.Sl  (Rs) 11  I
Teds                         6           4          2.00         64.00         23.360
mime                         4           3          2.70         32.40         11.826
Cm                           4           2          1.44         11.52          4,205
SsolsrslMotoMydus           35           2          0.55         38.50         14,052
bwds                        75           2          0.35         52.50         19,162
Bob* Cals                   20           2          0.33         3.20           4,818
b     77,423
9 Va. of Passengr rns Swed
Nunibrldv I Nunmbe o   Avg. Number Mn. Sawdlkm 2/l % ProdL TIme /1 Prod. inutes I Prod Hours  Econ VA/   Ean
Ione-way tips Iol Passengsl                                                   L khay 4J  Valueiuvvr        _
_us                          4           3           25            5             40           600          1 0         20        7.300
Cm                           4           2           2            2.5            40            16         0.27        0.54        197
suh     _Motryde            35           2          1.6            4             40           166         2.6         5.60       2.044
hb   9.541
C. Vau d lrewnewd Load om llme *ved
Numbar   I Number of | nuites         # Plod. llwIm  Prod. Miies IPrsd. HOMt    Econ Vaka|    co
T ss I                                                                         knucday 5f Valksl
Tnm                          8           4           5            80             128          2.13        5.33        1,945
GIdlCcus                    20           2           7            50             70           1.17        1.30        555
lb    2.500
V HL BeenhE   r ad AM. Las. 'Econic Ap l of Rural Roads: Shpbd OpwariDnal Procecirss for Scening and Appraisar. Hhdd Bask SWI
Waddog Pape No. 610. 1963. Annmw K, p.4.
V Cwnr Roads Resuerh inft. Impact @d Runr Roads Taelc Ftow Pafems and Econonic Benerfs-A Case Ski  hI H na", Nw Deli. August 1987, Tabe 7.6,
39 Ml p. 110, nkides .mp"oesnHfei-id bushnss (25%) and takin gpods to maot 15%).
4/ Ddy uaoaofb 20 s*aed by SCF (0.e4
S fdOI. p. 116  Tk i1m  vdalod a Rs 2Mr; bulock caot d   at Rs t*Khrv



-114-
Table 25
INDIA
BIHAR PLATAEAU DEVLOPENTW PROQ C
Crop Budget - Ralufed Upland Paddy
With the project            Without the project
QuantiMy Unit CAs Value(R&s)  Quandi  Units ValMe Rs)
INPUTS
Seeds                    Kgs              100        4       400        120       3.5      420
Fertilizers
Nitrogen                 Kgs               25        7       175         20        7       140
Phosphorus (P205)        Kgs               15        8       120         10        8        80
Potassium (K20)          Kgs               10        3        30          0        0         0
Farm Yard Manure         Tons               1      100       100          1      100       100
lime                     Quintals         0.5      100        50         0       100         0
Pesticdes                Lits               1      220       220          1      220       220
Bullock Pairs            Nos               16       25       400         12       25       300
Labour
Plantin&weeding.etc      Nos               30       20       600         30       20       600
Harvest,threshin&etc.    Nos               IS       20       300         10       20       200
Watch & Ward             Nos                0        0         0          0        0         0
Irrigation Charges       Rs/ha              0        0         0         0         0         0
Tota Input Costs         Rs/ha                              2395                          2060
OUTPUT
Grain as Paddy           Tons/ha           1.2    2400      2880        0.8     2400       1920
Stover as hay            Tons/ha           1.2     400       480        1.2      400       480
Total output             Rs/ha                              3360                          2400
NET RETURN               Rs./ha                              965                           340
Fandly labour            Rs/ha             35       20       700         30       20       600
Net wome of the family    Rs./ha                            1665                            940



-115-                              Anax 5
Table 26
BIAR PLATAEAAU DEVELOPMENT PRO1ECT
Crop Budget - Rainfed Midland Paddy
WITH THE PROJECT            WITHOUT THE PROJECT
lIcms                 Unla       aQ.nliy Unit Cost   Valg      Quandly  Unit Co      Ya
Seeds                 Kgs              60        6      360          80        3.5     240
Fertllizers
Nitroen               Kgs              25        7      175          15         7      105
Phosphorus (P205)     Kg               15        8     120           5          8       40
Potasium (K20)        Kgs              10        3      30            0         0        0
Farm Yard Manure      Tons              1      100      100           2        100     200
lime                  QuIntals          1      100      100           0        100       0
Pesticides            Lits              1      220      220         0.5        220     110
Bullock Pairs         Nos              10       25      250          10        25      250
Labour
Plantin&weeding.etc    Nos             40       20      800          38         20     760
Harvest,thrsingetc.   Nos              22       20      440          18        20      360
Watch & Ward          Nos               3       20       60           3         20      60
Irrigation Charges    Rs/ha             0        0        0           0         0        0
Total Input Costs     Rs/ha                            2655                           2125
OUT PUT
Grain as Paddy        Tons/ha          1.8    2400    4320          1.5       2400    3600
Stover as hay         Tons/ha          1.6     400      640          1.6       400     640
Total output          Rs/ha                            4960                           4240
NET RETERN            Rs./ha                           2305                           2115
Family labour         Rs/ha            35       20      700          30         20     600
Nqet Income of the baily Rs./ha                        3005                           2715
.                                            .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



BIHR   CMU   DOPLMI ENT PROllECr
Crop Budget - RAinfed Pinger Millet
WITH THE PROJECT            WITHOUT THE PROJECr
ltems                .IJni     Ouand   Unlat   Value         Oua§X  UnitCkst  Ynbg
INpUTS
Seeds                Xgs              5       8      40            6         6      36
Fertilizers
Nitrogen             Kgs.            20       7     140           15         7      105
Phosphorus(P205)     sgs            15        8     120           10        8       80
Potassium (1(20)     Kgs             10       3      30            0         0       0
Farm Yard Manure     Tons             1      100    100.           0       l00       0
iime                 Quintabs         0      100      0            0       100       0
Pesticides           Lits             0       0       0            0         0       0
Bulock Pars          Nos              8      25    200             8        25     200
Labour
Planting,weeding.etc    Nos          25      20    500            25        20     500
Harvest,threshingetc.   Nos          15      20    300            12        20     240
Watch&Ward           Nos              0       0       0            0         0       0
Irrigation Charges   Rs/ha            0       0       0            0         0       0
Total Input Costs     Rs/ha                         2395                           1161
OUTPUTS
Grain as Paddy       Tons/ha          1    2400   2400           0.6      3000    1800
Stover as hay        Tons/ha          1     400    400            1.2      300     360
Total output          Rs/ha                        2800                           2160
NET RETURN            Rs./ha                        405                            340
Fandly labour        Rs/ha           35      20    700            30        20     600
Net Income of the amily Rs./ha                      1105                           940



* 117..                    ~~~~Annex   :
Table 28
*   «IDIA
BIHrR PLATEAU DEVELOPMENT PRO]EC'
Crop Budget - Raiunfad Maie,
WITH THE PROJECT              WMTHOUT tHE PRtOJCr
itms                                Ognht  QalnWly   Qni   M        Qan        Unit Cost   YA
LB2     ffli                   SE,S)'.  fflh)
INPU.                                                                                     '
Seeds                   Kgs               20         4       80           20        3.5       70
Fertilizers
Nitrogen                Kgs               30         7      210           20         7       140
Phosphorus (P205)       Kgs               20         8      160           10         8        80
Potassium (K20)         Kgs               10         3       30            0         0         0
Farm Yard Manure        Tons               1       100      100            1        100      100
Lime                    Quintals          0.5      100       50            0       100         0
Pesticides              Lits               1       220      220            1       226       220
Bullock Pairs           Nos               16        25      400           12        25       300
Labour
Planting,weeding.etc    Nos               45        20      900           40        20       800
Harvest,threshing,etc.  Nos               15        20      300           10        20       200
Watch & Ward            Nos                1       100      100            0         0         0
Irrigation Charges      Rs/ha              0         0        0            0         0         0
Total Input Costs       Rs/ha                              2550                             1910
QLULIT
Maize                   Tons/ha           1.5     3000    4500           1.2      3000      3600
Stover as hay           Tons/ha            2       250      500           1.8      250       450
Total output            Rs/ha                              5000                             4050
NET RETURN              Rs./ha                             2450                             2140
Family labour           Rs/ha            .35        20      700           30        20       600
Net Income of the family  Rs./ha                           3150                             2740
U



-118-                               *Anex 5
TAble 29'
INDI
BIHAR PLATAKEAU D          WELOPMENTPROJEC.
Crop Budget - Ranfed Pigeon Pea
WfTH THE PROJECT              WITHOUT THE PROJECT
QOuanrt   Unit Cgst  al         QuantilX  UaitCe        y
INPUJTS
Seeds                        Kgs              20         8       160          20          6       120
Ferfllzers
Nitrogen                     Kgs              20         7       140          i5          7       105
Phosphorus (P2is) Kgs                        15         8       120          10          8         80
Potassium (K20)              Kgs              10         3        30           0          0         0
Farm Yard Manure             Tons             0        100         0           1        100       100
Ume                          Quintals        0.5       100        50           0        100         0
Pesticides                   Lits              1       220       220         0.5        220       110
Bullock Pairs                Nos              10        25       250           8         25       200
Labour
Plantingweeding.etc          Nos             25         20      500           20         20       400
Harvest,threshin&etc.        Nos              18        20      360           15         20       300
Watch & Ward                 Nos              0          0         0           0          0         0
Irrigation Charges           Rs/ha            0                   0            0          0         0
Total Input Costs            Re/ha                              1830                             1415
OUTPUT
Pegion Pea grain             Tons/ha         0.8      5(00     4000          0.6       5000      3000
Stalks as fuel               Tons/ha           1       300       300         1.2        300       360
Total output                 Rs/ha                              4300                             3360
NET RETURN                   Rs./ha                             2470                             1945
Family labour                Rs/ha           30         20      600           28         20       560
Net Income of the family     Rs./ha                             3070                             2505



Crop Budget - Citrus
PIY     _                                                           'W     Ch Fbw
Ha   XmK1X=m IMi huL YS XIft lml rma YX3 s Y    imi                                        rL
Th Fob                    Kp                        250  so   750 1250 2500 3750  5000            5      0    0    0 1250 2500 3750  I5012S0  17750 25006700
baraP    k  PuIbiJ f1             400  450  400  300  300  200  200   00  200   200              2       o  000  000  600  600    0    6        0      0     O 5700
kw.C    siwa d _m1"h   go         500  60  650   00  500  400  400  400  400   400    0.25    125  ISO  162  150  125   0    0                  O      0     0   712
025 1050  962 2    3225 375  6750 120 10 25    74112
FuWmsmte                  NM       250   25    0    0    0    0    0    0    0           0       I      M 575    0    0    0    0    a          0      0     a 4125
_bs VW.*                  KP        10      10   10         a *    5    S    5    5      S       *      30   30   30   24   24  1515    IS    IS    15  213
Fel  "ted M.              TM         5   2.   2.5S     2.5  2.5 2.5  2.5     .5  2.S   25       100    500  250  250 25   250  250  250   250   250   250 60
N_qe                      NV       250  125  125  125  125  125  125  125  12S   125              7   1450  75  075  675  675  875  675   075   865   675  325
MM m P205                 Ip       t2S  S65   OS   S5   S5   Ss   65   65   65    65             2   1000  520  520  520  520  520  520   520   520   520 S60
P _m       O               p        so   SO   50   sO   50   50   SO   SO   50    SO             3    150  150  150  150  t50  150  t50   150   tSO   t50 t1500D
UFO IApIou                KIp                 125    0 125    01 25    0 125             0      100    125    0   125    0125   0  125          0   125    0 625
ISPsw so 1mm              llt      1S    6    4    4    4    4    4    4    4            4      2S    400  200  100  100  100  100  100   100   IOM. 100 1400
MeP   A Fkr1dMS e.        Wad      SO   20   10   10    5    10   12   15   I           ItS     20   1200  400  200  2        100  200  240   300   300   300 3440
w_m      _ ..bo.b           _       *    4    4    4    4    4    4    4    4            4      20    16O   60   60  t0   SO0 so          0 s   0 s    0 oO      66
vIo                        1_"I    20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20    20             sO    200  200  200  200  500  200  200   200   2 00  2000
Fxft             mrnw       0    0    a    2    2    a    4    4    6           6       20      0    0    0 40   40  60   80     *0 100 12             520
*  lWusubgkw-ml m_        l        10. 12    12    a    a    a    6    6    6            a      20
noS porn  mASke  isq MUew   1in   110  110  110  220  220  330  330  440   440                  -      ISO  110  110  110  220  220  330   330   440  440 2400
waft"  8mwbp        t*m   120  1200  600  400    0    0    0    0    0            0      .     11201200, 6D0  400    0    0    6                0    0 3400
*  FUbI SM*.UMAW  VI   R49mm  200   m           0 a    a    0 0        *    0    a       0            2500  600    0    0    0            0     0      0    0   00
m am                                                                                           12345 4140 34  2340 2404 2670 26   30  3155  305 472
mas     w                                                                                           -112  -3140 -26  044   S41 1060 373S  3S   14515 2105 626



'4
w12 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~tw
on         5                                             a gg  g     9 gg  *   £      gm *       mvwPmvuq*nqw
Om. a a  6   act 01   Q   #  S        C S   SE      9   9  9   9  9  0   1          u
I=~~~~~ o    on  on  GU  du  on  oz  on   i090                             a'ee    __snw_
5*O**@§     O§11  1  1  51e    -     6        III<- S
on  ow  got 0   on  gm  Ql9 00  O   OK   n  CZ   ES  s  s   ae  6  s   ot  et  oa                       ofng
mat  g   an iii 51   *   os  6   05  6s             so   faa0   s   6a0    f                              n   nm
amm an gm me a  ms Om Gmm e    9 S a a a 9 S a *                                          *              u m t_
an  so  so  so  soz  s  si  Si  Si  ow  se  1       a  s   so  at Su  at  at o   o   Su  d_                I      l
mR  00  an  OK  Qt  mg  z  00  ett on  onz Go    a   S9  9   SX  a   9  9   S 9  s           OWL _ 
ast  as  as  os  St  as  oI  u  or ac  as ot  9     osls  s         as   s  s I   I  os  os a    ax     d     _nwm
up     5151Gm5 aaui51                  a-; 
ams Gm  gm Es  on Es es                      a      oS  am Us   06 D  S  0   0  D   0  0    ax              4M P s
ill'.  i- £9JRp LL  LoKZ
Sf ES C.  51   _-1             _    1
.                                                                                            ZW~~~~S
u w m us s us oe oea  Q  E6s 1w_
_ 111 _rn u11 le  * -    - 1 s@°°          
o8  s  -Sepni dozD
-               a3w,3 3snU       v



emSW9 33          SW~ 515 IUSC         SW   SM                                               ~Ii  ONm
:                    ::                                                                                              m em    widmJ
SO    R      I£    M    1    I                       610           051 03    R  O                 0SIODD  OKI              M&
Son at  Ott   n   on at h             0IS  on   Ot  a    091       9    9    9    9    9    9    9    9    9    I    &&*mm               duoupgnm ftm"
WA    OKIo         t  OK69 31m   *    St                  6        at   I   9    5    5    1    I                       "WAR~n               weadbINmq
551   01n                                       001   PI 0               I    I    1          S    s.   s    O    S    s                 3stopUSM
011onR    0   gotO 0     R   ORORWI0 OR m 00   OR   It01                     5    S    5    5    S9    9  5 0           am5,11g   a 3U59  UIWi5    gm
Wi E    0El OR m       a   ma              at goi  m a    I zA                  it 5        S        t at9S1t Su            am                        son
No          on        061        -5        a         0    WI                                       11 06  ST  0 6          _ 5_ P
Cml          ttEt 511  tl  015             iS        f i                 RII  5Z.111          III       ill        RI       -A                     'N4I
USt         St   S     C a       OCI       oR        00 O R        9     51 s    51   *            9         oWA                                   i Voss
LICZ1 SI   St   Cl oi   St        l   Il  SE         SE                  i         s  Z    Z       3       1 1 1                            o.gqigps
stec    I1F    tUt              a W    s   a         a    ezt   .                                            sz   os        SON -        * - 
5510 001 1 0t Ogg   S   a   Og                  O         sSS SI S                                           01   651                  _      S -6iIIuUS Wi1L
3105.e   Mt oRII 65100   atR  sWt  65t  at  oft1 S91                                                                              Imv0,O     o  opo  w        aA moo/4 1no m   dwJo4
Oml   001p  OlRo 001    Oa 601    9  05 91  65    1    C 001   001001  O 001  U 009 0069O 009 OD0O65 .OD O                  ax pom/u.yugq op. aaIdmo.us
055   mlc  001 Om l    OR   0   0019 00   03O             1        ORs  OsRA 001  OR   O           05  OIl001  03           dN                   WAWAunp~)1   fmmuA
t  0051  S111l 06  em   655 mes    1 .US  65W OOt  e.D61    OlE de                                                                              UPU  1W    9 §   N
3At  1 -i8pue doze
R   *SZI Qt     l       s         Qll                 st:         l        W          St        St        *                _
18ZII   51      EI        SI        S1 s                 s .    s             s         s          s        AVW1w



Afforestati±o Model - INo-Arable Land
_   _     _      _     _      _     ___L                                        -l              
5Mmxw VzuZ Xin  ls Nin xmi XMin Az Nazi nuaziNz XA MiMn   lbk    Ni NAMA mOa N    MMi IOU N INauJ 'IK  NnUZM5 XMM
balm       "M       is   to ms   a      tom   Ma  Wa  W   mW  mW   W       W   m  m    Wm W   W  m  m    m  m           W  m   m
&"WGTv   omW W                               W Wn                                    n    nr n    n         n s       
hM T                                                a v v   ma   a  ma  m   m  -    -            a   U   a   a   a         mu  - w
_-m 5          Ni..    .            .           so        maao  W                           .                              mU   mm
Umuh__   Kb                                     .a a           am      us      a                              ~s  mu  mu  mu   u  mu"
*;ns  m   mu  mu _M.  Mm                   M    s on
--         a..                                                                -     mm                                            *
_b~~~~~~~~m   mm  mu   *                                                                 _          _           m
__h.mArm ~     .                                _m                                     mu  mu  mu    l_  mum   m                 u
_U=~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~e ,                                                u al sl mu mm mu mm mm m m  
TadwbAco _tM 
9"906M  ML                                     4M  4M  20    M         M    M   M   M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
. ~      Wdwnf                                                                                                                       
AL                                   4M  40  45   M         M    M   M   M         M~~~~~~~~~~Bt



SlivIpasture Model - Non-Arable Land
T_ ClL  *  0  -  04U   U   5**    -S                                    266                         *  US   Ma             -ma
Ha..    .        .  .ao  MolaR   .2o                    * .   .   .   .    .  amm                   sa _ La
humd_1~I       Tm      *  £   U   5*  2.  2.   *  2*   *  2*   *  19           U        5  25   5   MU    US  US  US   UU           M
Fdi            TM                           M 2m 22   U        2 U                                           4 U    S  0   S   U  U 0  m -  MU  am
IF    Lbv  *TM                  - *     U       US           tS US.  l2eS               2 -   -   -  so  u.  m   s    s   us   Mn
sTom b               as   w   ue s Ls  21s uLs  sa  L   ss ILs   aO                m   u    S  25a  no  aWm  MO  ms             uso  no
CWVs        .Ia    PS  U   2511 *           *                 ISU      Se              US   S         - US   -1             Se we  US  ale*- ***
tt inoamie b                                         a" 2                         0     Sw  n   US o     45  US U."   M  U    a  sw M    M
RL                        in    m  no  no         2W~~~~~~~-66  -M1   M  MU  Ma  2M  MU  25  MU   M  MU
42 -5o aB US  is   15  we *a so                   I as
an        1_   m                                                  la  -no  M no  us  Mz so  M    M    M Mli



I
=a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ s im  sm St  am ow 00                      "d--      --    -U 
lee,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
n                               mg an         _                  an.  .s .  Om                        PM_
OmM~~~~~~~ 4"m   V A 8
soI  s
NW =am  sm u  mm M  to  am4aam act                    ..apaqgm...sapmsmIqu  Pu.gspdeq&g
urn m    s  -usu  s * us ur u"  w                                                         U  numu4p
Nua   a  u  a  a  X  u                 a t s    _       I            ms         u n       n  u  n    _ U   __
=a Om O -           so s -      mg     mr        mg    -            a us-   a _L -  us UK   U
r~~~ m
N NM..    .    Ma* ma
pox a-mx rinz rrmx   v-ax ruvx tK ru  r-x rsx pow   ww ir7wum ra  r'sx p5 u rwx p      pux mm
ROPl-spaunz I.z,a l 



-125-
Annex 6
Attachniant I
Page l of 5
INDIA
BITHAR PLATEA  DEVLOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental and Social As2ects
1.    This report contains (a) a proposal for management of environmental issues;
and (b) a discussion on some of the issues associated with women and tribal
population.
A Strateav for Manaaement of Environmental Issues
2.    The strategy proposed here sets out. norms and procedures for selection,
appraisal and execution of project sub-components in an environmentally sound and
safe manner. The proposal is based on the following characteristic features of
the Bihar Plateau Development Project (for a detailed discussion of these
features refer 'Environmental Reconnaissance Report' Ward and Salam, November
1991):
(i)   The adverse environmental impact of the project are mainly those
associated with storage irrigation systems and, to a lesser extent,
with rural roads. The watershed development will, in general, be
beneficial to the environment;
(ii)  Both negative and positive effects will be highly localized and will
be limited to the immediate environs of an individual scheme (usually
an area covering 2 or 3 villages). There will be, however, a large
number of such locations scattered all over the project area;
(iii) The individual schemes (a dam, reservoir, stretch of road, etc.) will
be selected, designed, executed and operated by a complex network of
agencies and institutions, at Taluka and village level. The
environmental management systems hence have to be introduced at that
level;
(iv)  The agencies associated with selection, design, execution and
operation (village council/NGOs, district administration, sub-
divisional and divisional engineers of MID and REO) of the schemes do
not have the technical skills to carry out EIA exercises and to
incorporate mitigatory measures in the plan at present;
(v)   The environmental issues associated with small irrigation schemes and
rural roads are fairly well understood and simple remedial measures
are well known. It will be hence possible to equip the project
executing agencies with the skills and capabilities required for the
task; and



-126-
Annex 6
Attachment 1
Pace 2 of C
(vi)  The large number of small, widely scattered schemes and the
complexities of the institutional network make it necessary to
develop a decentralized multi-tier institutional mechanism to address
the environmental issues associated with the project.
3.    The environmental strategy recommended here have the following components:
(i) Establishment of a broad policy framework for prioritization and
selection of project sub-component;
(ii) Establishment of a detailed environmental guideline for preparation
of sub-component plans;
(iii) Close monitoring of schemes during execution;
(iv) Monitoring of a few selected aspects during the early years of
operation of the scheme; and
(v) A rigorous training program to equip the project agencies with the
skills and capabilities to carry out the above tasks.
These components are discussed in detail in the following paragraphs.
4.    Broad Policy Framework:  This is to set forth broad guidelines for early
screening, prioritization and selection of project sub-components. A sample
(indicative only) policy framework for surface irrigation systems is given in
Attachment l. The final policy framework should be worked out by the Project
Environmentalist in consultation with Project Sociologist within the general
policy frame work of Bihar Plateau Development Project. It is necessary to
ensure that the policy frame work is fully understood by all
institutions/agencies involved with the project.
5.    Detailed auidelines for Drenaration of nroiect sub-comgonent n2ans: The
purpose of this guidelines is: (a) to ensure that common environmental issues
associated with a sub-component is thoroughly investigated and the mitigatory
measures are incorporated during the preparation of plans; and (b) to provide a
standard guideline for screening agencies (project implementation cell at
district level) for scrutinizing and recozmending to the final approving
authorities. An indicative guideline for irrigation and road components are given
in Attachment 2. The final guidelines should be prepared by the project
environmentalist in consultation with the project sociologist.
6.    Enviromental Monitorina Durina Implementation: A major cause of
environmental problem is poor implementation and it is essential to ensure that
individual schemes are executed according to the standards and plans. In
addition, close monitoring will be able to identify issues that may have been
overlooked during planning and to introduce remedial measures. The monitoring
should be done at two levels:
(i)   monitoring of all environmentally sensitive schemes by district
project implementation cell in its the area of jurisdiction; and



-127-
Anngx 6
Attachm2n"
Pagea 3 o 
(ii) monitoring of a few selected schemes directly by the project
envitonmentalist;
7.    Monitoring Durina the ODerational Phase:  This should be done by the
project environmentalist and should focus on a few selected issues in a small
number of projects. The purpose of this monitoring is to identify, at an early
stage, special social/environmental issues during the operation of the scheme,
and should be carried out for three to four years. A list of issues that may be
monitored is given below:
(i)   functioning of Water Users Association (WUA), equitable distribution
of water, proper O&M;
(ii)  soil erosion in catchment and command areas, siltation of reservoirs,
sedimentation and weed growth in canals and water courses;
(iii) changes in fertilizer and insecticide consumption patterns, water
quality;
(iv)  changes in incidence of malaria and other water-related diseases;
(v)   social conflicts arising out of water use in command/down stream
areas;
(vi)  land slides and slips in hilly areas where new roads have been
constructed. Water logging problems associated with roads;
(vii) traffic hazards close to village settlements; and
(viii)      land alienation and land related conflicts.
It would be useful to monitor these and similar issues at regular
intervals. A standard MIS system for data collection and analysis should be
developed as appropriate.
8.    Institutional Mechanisms for Environmental Manaaement:  The screening,
selection and monitoring should be carried out in the following manner:
(i)   preliminary screening and selection based on the broad policy frame
work by village council and NGOs in consultation with line
departments;
(ii)  detailed scrutiny by project implementation cell at the district
level on the basis of the detailed planning guidelines. This should
be done by an officer at DDC's office who has been specially trained
for the purpose; and
(iii) final scrutiny and approval by the project environmentalist based on
the recommendations made by district project implementation cell and
any other consideration. (TOR for the Project Environmentalist is
given in Attachment 4.)



-128-                                Annex 6
Attachment 1
Pace 4 of 5
9.    The success of this screening and monitoring mechanism will largely depend
on equipping the personnel involved in the project with skills and capabilities
necessary to carry out the task.
10.   It is necessary to train persons/agencies attached to the project
institutional network at different levels. Broad guidelines are given in
Attachment 4. The most important component of the training is the technical
training of assistant and executive engineers of MID and REO. The objective is
to equip them with EIA skills and with technical knowledge of environmentally
sound engineering practices ("best practice") in designing small irrigation
systems, rural roads, soil erosion measures and similar other issues. This
should be done as an gon job training". This can be done if resource
agencies/consultants are asked to train project engineers during selection,
design and execution of a few selected projects.
Tribal People
11.   The proposed Bihar Plateau Development Project does not introduce any new
activities in the predominantly tribal project area. All project components are
similar to those that have been carried out for a number of years under the GOI's
Tribal Sub-plan and hence are not expected to cause any disruptions in the tribal
way of life. In fact, the project strategy based on active involvement of
village people and NGOs are likely to ensure greater benefits to the tribal
people.
12.   Almost all activities proposed in the project are aimed at creating
community resources (with the exception of dug wells and water harvesting tanks
which will be individually owned) and hence special targeting of tribals is not
necessary. It will be however, necessary to ensure proportionate representation
of tribals in all resource management committees (WUA, watershed committee,
etc.). It will be similarly necessary to ensure that individual beneficiary
schemes are evenly distributed.
13.   There are some socio-economic issues associated with development
interventions and the most common issues are related to tribal land alienation,
increased exploitation by traders, contractors and petty government functionaries
and indebtedness. These problems are prevalent in the project area and the
project activities may not be free of these problems. Active involvement of
people and NGOs and District Administration is expected to counter this tendency.
14. A newly created community resource such as irrigation schemes can become a
source of conflict within the village community as there will be distinct groups
of benefitted and not benefitted. It is hence necessary to ensure integration of
different activities (surface irrigation, water harvesting tanks, dug well,
fisheries in tanks, etc.) with the objective of maximizing the number of
beneficiaries in any given village. Further, NGOs should monitor such sources of
conflicts and ensure these are resolved an early stage and does not lead to
serious disputes.



-129-
qGeneral TamUan
15.   There are no specific gender issues associated with the project.  What is
necessary is to create an environment where men and women can participate equally
actively, at all stages of the project. The following measures would help:
-     ensure women's participation in all consultative and decision making
meetings at the village level;
-     ensure proportionate participation of women in all resource
management comuittees such as WUA and watershed committee;
-     ensure that sites of drinking water wells are selected in
consultation with women;
-     ensure adequate participation of women in various training programs
that will be carried out under the project; and
-     provide priority in employment of women in project related
activities.
16.   It will also be beneficial if the NGos assign a woman staff to ensure that
the above measures are taken and there is no discrimination against women in
project-related activities.



-130-
AnnA3x 6
BIHAR PLAEA RDVEOPMENT PROJECT
An Indicative Policy Framework for Selection and
Prioritigation of Irriaation Schemes
Unaccentable Schgmes
1.    Schemes that require clearance from MOEF, GOI.
2.    Schemes where the total land cost (due to submergence, drAm seat, canal,
etc.) is twenty percent or more of the net command area.
3.    Reservoir schemes whose useful life is to be limited to twenty years or
less due to heavy erosion in the catchment.
4.    Schemes which do not have full consent and support of the people in the
impact area, particularly on those matters related to (a) water sharing;
(b) cost sharing of operation and maintenance; and (c) compensation
package for those who are losing arable land in the reservoir.
Low Priority PX2aects
1.    Where loss of arable land is more than 20 ha.
2.    New irrigation scheme where there is an existing irrigation system.
3.    Schemes involving severely eroded catchment.
Hiah Priority
1.    Schemes which do not involve submergence of more than 10 ha.
2.    Villages where no facility for irrigation exists.
3.    Schemes in which there is strong support and involvement of the local
population.
4.    Rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes which do not involve land
acquisition and which will ameliorate environmental problems created by
the existing scheme.



-131-
BIHAR P AEUDEVELOPENT PROJECT
Guidelines for the greoaration of plan
Trr,icati2n
The detailed technical plan should contain:
1.    The results of EIA carried out and full details of all issues.
2.    Loss of arable/forest land - extent of loss of different categories of
land and details of persons affected; compensation plan based on
providing replacement land to affected people and agreed by them.
3.    Loss of forest land - full details of loss of forest land and
compensatory afforestation.
4.    Actual estimate of the catchment conditions and silt load in the stream
and full catchment area treatment plan.
S.    Full details of the drainage plan.
6.    Identification and plans for borrow areas, quarries and spoil disposal
areas, environmental consequences and remedial measures.
7.    Details of the investigation of impact on downstream water users and
remedial measures, if necessary.
8.    Identification of benefitted area and people.  Details of the agreements
reached with WUCs/village councils with respect to O&N, cost sharing,
cost and benefit sharing for watershed development schemes.
The specific plan for rural road should contain:
1.    Identification of land to be acquired for right of way, borrow areas,
etc., and a compensation plan agreed with the land owners.
2.    Identification of environmentally sensitive areas such as steep slopes,
hill sides, flat areas functioning as cross drainage and forest areas



-132-
Annex 6
At±a6vhment 3
Pago?2 of 2
and detailed remedial measures including appropriate design standards to
stabilize slopes and hill sides and to provide adequate drainage.
3.    Identification of road portions that will pass throug?  habitation and
plans for paving and providing speed breakers.
4.    Appropriate cost and manpower estimates for all proposed onvironmental
measures.



-133-
TNDA
BIHAR PAEWAU DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOR for Prolect Environmentalist
Qualification and Ex=erience
A post graduate degree in environmental engineering or natural sciences
with 5 to 7 years of management and administrative experience of
environmental issues related to natural resource development.
-     Some experience of working with grass root level organization.
Task Descrinti2n
-    The Project Environmentalist will be responsible for the overall management
of all environmental issues associated with the Bihar Plateau Development
Project. He/she will work closely with the Project Sociologist.
-     He/she will be responsible for formulating broad environmental policy
framework and detailed environmental guidelines for preparation of project
sub-component plans.
-    He/she will be responsible for giving final environmental clearance for the
proposed schemes based on the recommendation of the District Project
Implementation Cell.
-    He/she will be responsible for formulating and organizing appropriate
environmental training program for the project staff and NGOs.



*-134                                     Annex 6
Attachment 5
1INDIA                            Page I of
_ai  inttTinsrggWIaining r&ntent                                          sores   uenZ
1.   Village council members;   A 3 to 5 day workshop on:
NGOs; resource
management committee     - general information on environmental    - local/national NGOs
members                     issues associated with irnigation, roads,  soil conservadon
CIC;                                  department local
technical institutions)
- causes and remedies for common
environmental problems such as
erosion, water logging, malaria control;
- environmentally sensitive u&. of
resources (water, land, etc.); and
- correct use of ferdlizer, insecticide and
other chemicals.
2.   Project implementation   A 5 to 7 day workshop on:
cell at district level; BDO
staff; assistant and     - principles and methods of simple EIA    -  national NGOs,
executive engineers of line  for small irrigation schemes and roads;  technical institutions
departments (REO, MID,                                            like IIT, IIM, Indian
Soil Conservadon);       - common problems and mitigatory         Institute of Science).
NOOs                        measures;
- environmental policy and legal issues
associated with project;
- environmental monitoring of small scale
works.
3.   Assistant and executive    'On hand' training (see pam 9) on:
engineers of MI, REO,
Soil Conservation)       - EIA of small irrigation and road works   -  Indian Institute of
Technology, Delhi
- environmentally sound investigation in   -  Indian Institute of
water resource development;           Management, Calcutta/
Ahmedabad
- "best engineering practices" to     -  Indian Institute of
avoid/minimize environmental problems    Science, Bangalore
and their design;                  -  IndiaR-Institute of
Public Administration,
-  "best construction standards" for dams,  Delhi
erosion and land slide control measures, -  IUCN, Gland,
drainage lines, etc.                  Switzerland
- Intemational institute
- monitoring of environmentally sensitive  for Enviromnent and
areas.                                Lievelopment, London



-135-
Anne 7
Attachment-1
Paae 1 of 5
BIHAR DLARA  1RVL0PRN   RO T
MeShaisms for MNO involvement in Project Activities
1.    NOOs will be actively involved in the decision making process of the
project through adequate representation in the various committees proposed under
the project and through the holding of half-yearly workshops of all NGOs
participating in project activities. The workshops will deliberate on all
aspects of the project and recommend changes where necessary for consideration at
the different decision making committee meetings. The possibility of forming an
NGO council was discussed with individual NGOs and a group of leading NGOs who
were invited to a meeting to discuss various issues by the RDC. A significant
number of NGOs had an apprehension that forming an NCO council now may lead to
avoidable factionalism. The NGOs could continue discussing the possibility of
forming an NGO council and form one if and when the need arose.
2.    The workshops will also recommend a panel of names of persons from the NOO
sector to represent them in the Project Committee and the Implementation
Committees for the various components. The RDC will nominate members of these
committees from within these panels. While nominating members, he will also
consider the representation of different geographical regions, technical
expertise and other criteria that NGOOS as a group may suggest. There will be a
minimum of two-fifth representation of NGOs in these committees.
3.    At the district level, all the NGOs having a potential for participating in
project activities will be invited by the DCs/DDCs to form a District-level NGO
Committee. These committees will assist the DCs/DDCs to access NGO and people's
participation in project activities. All the NGOs participating in project
activities will be nominated as members of the Zilla Parishads, Block Samitis and
Panchayats in their respective districts, blocks and panchayats. However, the
number of NGOs in these committees will be limited to two-fifths, and if the
number exceeds this, the concerned DC/DDC, BDO will make a final selection from
amongst the NGOs. Representatives of Beneficiary Organizations fonned for the
planning, implementation and operation and maintenance of project investments
will be nominated to the Pan:hayats and Panchayat Samitis.  Field level
functionaries of NG0s providing backstopping to Beneficiary Organizations will be
non-voting members of the Executive Committees of the Beneficiary Organizations.
4.    NGOs will assist the investment program of the project through the
following activities:
i.    advising the local people of project objectives and activities and
the government of people's development aspirations and concerns,
including siting considerations for project investments; this will be
done through village meeting, short workshops and training sessions
and production and dissemination of media material;



-136-
Annex 7
Attachment 
Paae 2 of 5
ii.   organizing people into informed user-groups to facilitate the
operation of project investments;
iii. providing training and extension services for beneficiary groups,
other participating NGOs and functionaries of official implementing
agencies;
iv.   implementation of a part of the watershed management component by
agencies which have participated in the training being organized by
the implementing department and have prepared watershed development
plans approved by the RDC/World Bank; and
v.    other infrastructural development through participating on regular
tendering procedures.
5.    NGO involvement would be essential for evolving methodologies to bring
about and sustain beneficiary participation for project activities. For
watershed management which forms a significant sub-component of the agriculture
component, beneficiaries would contribute about 50 per cent of the labor cost in
kind. The administrative orders for enabling the beneficiaries to share the
benefits of the treated watersheds are being processed. This would entitle the
beneficiaries to a share of both timber and non-timber produce from forests and
other common lands. Plans have been made to train the functionaries of the
implementing agency and interested NGOs in bringing about and sustaining
beneficiary participation for watershed management with assistance from MYRADA, a
Bangalore-based NGO which has developed expertise in this field.
6.    For irrigation management, the Minor Irrigation Department is processing a
draft notification which, when it comes into effect, would enable the government
to hand over flow and lift irrigation schemes to registered user-groups in a
phased manner.  The draft of this notification needs to be changed to entitle the
potential beneficiaries to form a Water Users Association (WUA) and gain
ownership of the project before the civil works for the proposed activities
start. The government has short-listed existing schemes of flow and lift
irrigation for which it is preparing rehabilitation plans and where NOOs will be
coimissioned to consult the potential beneficiaries and access their willingness
to contribute towards part of the rehabilitation costs (about 20% in cash or
kind) and take over the responsibilities for management and cost operation and
maintenance. The latter would include the payment of all costs such as the costs
of management, energization and repairs by the beneficiary organization through
levying irrigation charges on individuals. GOB will forfeit its rights to
collect irrigation levies. Further, if the willingness is confirmed, then the
NKOO will assist in forming Water Users Associations, drafting Memorandum of
Understanding (MOUs) and other follow-up activities. For this purpose, the NGOs
will work in close coordination with the implementing agencies. Some NGOs have
been organizing beneficiaries for smaller group irrigation schemes and the
experience which has been gained by them will form the basis for designing a
methodology for organizing beneficiary participation which will be field tested



-137-
Pace 3 of 5
in these pilot projects. The pilots will be closely monitored and standardized
methodologies or check lists and training programs for enlisting and sustaining
beneficiary participation in group irrigation schemes will be formulated on the
basis of the results achieved and experience gained in these pilot projects. The
methodclogies/check lists should include the following:
i.    participatory micro-planning exercises involving all groups in the
village, including non-beneficiary groups and if necessary,
neighboring villages in the watershed;
ii.   a survey of the command area and detailed mapping;
iii.  the process will incorporate the preparation of a complete list of
beneficiaries;
iv.   the drafting of a detailed list of responsibilities which will be
involved in rehabilitation of old schemes, construction of new
schemes and operation and maintenance of both;
V.    cost sharing arrangements;
vi.   an agreement to abide by these arrangements by at least three-fourths
of the potential beneficiaries before the project activity is
sanctioned; and
vii.  signing of MOUs between the WUA and Minor Irrigation Department
before the civil works for the project activity start.
7.    NGOs with expertise in developing methodologies and training programs for
community participation will be contracted for coordinating the pilot projects
and developing standardized methodologies, training programs and training manuals
for the project. The finalized methodologies will also incorporate strategies
for training the leaders of beneficiary organizations and providing
administrative backstopping and irrigation extension in the initial years (upto a
maximum of three years).
8.    In villages where various project activities are being implemented and
where more than one beneficiary organization has been formed, the activities of
the beneficiary organization will be coordinated by a village council formed for
project implementation. The village council will also pay special attention
towards the interest of non-beneficiaries and act as an arbitrator in case any
disputes regarding the use of common resources arise - or regarding
implementation of project activities.
9.    NGOs will also assist in:
i.    creating an awareness about organizing beneficiary groups and for
training village youth and women for operation and maintenance of
drinking water systems;



-138-
Annex 7
Paae 4 of I
ii.   encouraging panchayats to connect villages lying within 2 kms of
project roads by constructing feeder roads with JRY funds;
iii. providing training in road construction;
iv.   providing extension services for rainfed agriculture; and
v.    raising environmental awareness through extension and training.
10.   All NGOs who fulfill the following criteria will be eligible for
participating in the project:
i.    NGOs which have been registered under the Societies Registration Act
of Bihar or equivalent - and have been in existence as a registered
organization for a minimum of three years;
ii.   NGOs which are either operating within the project area or willing to
move to the project area if its proposal for participation is
approved;
iii. NGOs which have1, or have access to, requisite infrastructure and
skills whicn would be necessary for implementing the activities
proposed by it; and
iv.   NGos which have at least two years experience in beneficiary
organization and related activities.
11.   NGOs which are not eligible for participation in project activities as per
the above criteria would be encouraged to participate in coordination with other
NGOs who are eligible for participation and competent and willing to provide
administrative and training support.
12.   An NGO Cell will be created in the Project Implementation Office to
facilitate NGO activities and review participatory and social aspects of the
project (see attached draft TOR for NGO Cell).
13.  NGOO who are eligible for participation may apply with full details of the
proposed activity/activities.  The proposal should include:
i.    objectives, location and area of operation of the proposed
activities;
ii.   a description of the beneficiary group(s);
iii. details of the infrastructure available with the NGO, including human
resources; and



-139-
Annex 7
Attachment 1
Page 5 of 5
iv.   quantitative targets, funds expected from the NGO funds and funds
that will be provided to the NGO or other sources.
14.   A check-list to assist NGOs in preparing project proposals will be prepared
and reviewed annually. The Memorandum of Association, bye-laws and latest
audited statemient of accounts should accompany the proposal.
15.   The NGOs will have the option to either submit the proposal directly to the
NGO Cell or forward it to the cell through the BDO/DDC's office. All
applications received by BDOs and DDCs will be forwarded to the NOO Cell within a
prescribed timeframe after due scrutiny. Applications received by the NGO Cell
will be sent to the concerned DDC/Line Agency for review within a prescribed
timeframe. The final appraisal and approval of the project proposals will be
done by the Project Director with assistance from the NGO Cell and approved
proposals will be forwarded to the RDC for sanction. The NGO Cell will be
responsible for further processing of the approved activity including:
V.    assisting in the process of releasing financial installments without
undue delay;
vi.   monitoring and evaluation of the activity; and
vii. providing guidance to the NGO for project implementation on request.
16.   In project components such as drinking water which have a component for
utilizing the services of NGOs for beneficiary organization and training, the NGO
cell will assist the implementing agencies in identifying appropriate NGOs and
formulating contractual arrangements.
17.   NGOs present in a meeting held in the RDC's office on May 25, 1992 decided
to convene a larger workshop in the second half of June. One of the purposes of
the workshop would be to identify potential activities which would need to be put
in place on a priority basis, try and identify the NGOs which would conduct these
activities, and the approximate financial requirements which would need to be met
from retroactive funding. They will specifically try to identify NGOs for
assisting beneficiary organization for the first year's activity of the project
and for providing training and communications support. The RDC will use this as
a basis for finalizing plans for retroactive funding for NGO activities. In
addition to the workshop, RDC will also start consultations with individual NGOs
for the purpose.



-140-
Annex 7
Attachment 2
,Paao 1 of3
BIHAR PLATEAU DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Socioloaist/AnthroDoloaist
1.    The Sociologist/Anthropologist should have an academic background in the
social sciences or social work, preferably with a Masters degree or equivalent,
and field experience of working in tribal areas for a minimum       of five years.
The Sociologist/Anthropologist should be conversant with GOI and/or external
agency funding procedures for NGOs, including appraisal, monitoring and
evaluation procedures. The Sociologist/Anthropologist should also be conversant
with methods for socio-economic analysis of rural development activities and
skills in computer use. The Sociologist/Anthropologist should be below 50 years
of age and be willing to travel extensively in the project area. Recruitment for
the position will be undertaken by a committee consisting of the Regional
Development Commissioner, Project Director, and an outside expert nominated by
the Development Commissioner.
Pronoaed respons ibi lit ies
2.    To access the assistance of NGOs for the following:
i.    participatory micro-level planning at proposed sites for irrigation
and watershed management activities;
ii.   beneficiary organization for irrigation, watershed management,
drinking water pumps;
iii. developing mass media for dissemination of information about project
activities and enhancing people's participation;
iv.   organizing beneficiary groups for the construction of JRY feeder
roads, culverts on the feeder roads, dug-wells and water harvesting
tanks;
v.    developing innovative concepts related to project activities; and
vi.   for the implementation of the watershed development program.
3.    Organizing or assisting in organizing trainings for the following:
i.    participatory methodologies and social analysis for the staff of
implementing departments and NMOs;
ii.   beneficiary organization and administrative management of beneficiary
associations for NGOs and beneficiary groups;



-141-                                knoWLl_
Attabnt2
Paoe 2 gf 3
iii.  on agricultural technologies, irrigation management, road
construction, maintenance of drinking water systems and other related
technical subjects for NGOs and beneficiaries; and
iv.   other training needs for NGOs and beneficiaries which may be
identified during project implementation.
4.    Administering the NGO Fund.  This would include:
i.    processing of NGO applications;
ii.   administration of the sanctioned activities;
iii.  monitoring and evaluation of sanctioned activities;
iv.   identification of activities which need to be promoted through the
NGO Fund; and
v.    assist implementing departments in identifying NGOs for implementing
activities to be financed through the various component budgets.
S.    Assist the RDC in establishing a systematic process of consultation and
communication with NGOs. This should be done through:
i.    organizing half-yearly NGO workshops for all participatory NGOs at
project level;
ii.   organizing regular meetings with NGOs at the district level;
iii.  ensuring adequate participation as prescribed in various committees;
and
iv.   organizing the publication of a project newsletter for communication
with project staff, NGOs and beneficiary groups.
6.    Facilitate, where appropriate, follow-up action for decisions taken at the
project level NGO workshops and prepare the agenda for forthcoming workshops in
consultation with the RDC, Project Director, DCs/DDCs, implementing departments,
NOOs and beneficiary groups.
7.    Maintain a database on NGOs and Beneficiary Organizations functioning in a
project area.
8.    Review proposed implementation activities to ensure that the procedures
laid out for people's participation in planning have been strictly adhered to and
that the primary beneficiaries of the group of implementation activities to be
undertaken in each block are SCs and STs.



-142-
Annex 7
Attaghment 2
Paae a of3
9.    Monitor the progress of implementation activities and of investments during
post-implementation phase to ensure that participatory processes established are
being sustained and supported.
10.   Monitor and evaluate the social impact of ongoing project activities,
highlight positive impacts and, if negative impacts are identified, suggest
corrective measures.
11.   Attend district level meetings of NGOs and Zilla Parishad meetings as far
as possible and organize block level meetings with NGOs and beneficiary groups
while visiting project areas.
12.   Prepare annual report on project activities with specific reference to NGO
and beneficiary participation and social impacts.
13.   The Sociologist/Anthropologist will be assisted in fulfilling these
responsibilities by an Institutional Specialist who should have a background in
the social sciences and post-graduate training in management, preferably rural
management. The Institutional Specialist will be responsible for the day-to-day
administrative functioning of the NGO cell.



-143-
AtahMnt a
Page 1 a" 
BIHAR PLAT'RAU DMvMLOPMENT PROJEC'
Terms of Reference
3G0 Cell
1.    NOO Cell will function under the control of the Project Director.  The cell
will consist of a Sociologist/Anthropologist and an Office Manager. The specific
responsibilities of the NGO/Environmental Cell will include the following:
i.    ensuring representation of NGOs in various committees as prescribed;
ii.   establishing a system for regular consultation and exchange of
information with NGOs and beneficiary groups. This should include
the convening of half-yearly NGO workshops and publication of a
newsletter at the project level and holding meetings with NGOs at the
district level on a regular basis. The consultation and communication
process should include discussion of project concepts, innovative
ideas, environmental and other issues and dissemination of
information on ongoing, proposed and completed project activities.
The cell may fulfill this responsibility partly through NOos on a
contract basis;
iii.  identifying activities to be implemented by NGOs and to be included
in the Annual Plans in consultation with the RDC, Project Director,
DCs/DDCs, implementing line agencies and NGOs;
iv.   standardizing methodologies, procedures and norms for the major field
activities such as beneficiary organization and field training to be
implemented during the year;
v.    negotiating with NGOs for implementation of the identified
activities, field proposals for the same and for activities
identified by NGOs which fall within the purview of project
activities and oversee the processing of these proposals. Finalize
the Annual Plan and the Annual Budget. The Annual Budget should also
include a provision of 20% of the estimated budget for identified
activities for NGO activities which may be identified during the
course of implementing the annual plan;
vi.   regular monitoring and evasuation of NGO activities being implemented
with financial assistance from the project with concerned line
agencies, DDCs and hired consultants;
vii.  review all specific investment proposals of the project with respect
to participatory process and social concerns. The review of



-144-
Annex 7
Atta ehment -2
Paoe 2 gf 2
participatory processes should include a check on whether the
prescribed participatory processes for planning have been
systematically carried out. The social review should examine all
investment proposals in the block for a specific component to ensure
that as a group of investment activities, they have been designed to
primarily benefit SC, ST groups;
viii. monitor the social impact of all project activities, highlight the
positive impact and suggest corrective measures if negative impacts
are identified;
ix.   maintain a database on NGOs and Beneficiary Organizations in the
project area; and
x.    prepare annual reports with specific reference to NGO and people's
participation in project activities, social and environmental impacts
and mitigating measures.



BIHAR  LATEAU DEVELOPMET PROJECT
WatershedlCatchment Area Treatment
Cost/Benefit Sharina Matrix (in Percent)
COSTS                        BENEFITS
Establishment    Maintenance   Intermediates         Final
Benefi-         Benefi-         Benefi-         Benefi-
ciaries  Govt   ciaries Gov   ciaries Govt   ciaries  Goyt-
.ratnents
A. On Arable Lands                         0   100      25      75      All benefits go to farmers
Contour Vegetative Barriers 1/          0   100     25       75                      -do-
Cross-section EBnds with Veg                                                                                     I
Barriers 1J                           0   100     25       75                      -do-
Retention Terraces 1/                   0   100     25       75                      -do-
Boulder/Stone terracing 1/              0   100     25       75                      -do-
Alley Cropping 2/                      25   75       50      50                      -do-
Crop Demonstrations 3/                 25   75    100         0                      -do-
Rainfed Horticulture Crop
Demonstrations 4/                    25   75    100         0                      -do-
Farm Forestry 5/                       25   75    100         0                      -do-
B. On Non-Arable Lands
Afforestation 6/                        0  100       50       50     100       0      25         75
Silvipasture Development 6/             0  100      50        50     100       0      25        75
C. Drainage Line Treatments
Nala Training                          Government responsible for the establishment of structures for the  v
Marginal Bunds                         drainage lines and the villagers (Panchayat) would undertake to        n
Interceptor Drains                     maintain through MOU signed with the government on 50:50 basis.       D 0
Vegetative Gully Checks                                                              -do-                     o "
Gabion structure                                                                     -do-                    j' X
W OD



COS1SS                         ENEFITS
Establishment    Maintenance   Intermediates         Final
Benefi-         Benefi-         Benefi-         Benefi-
ciaries  Govt   ciaries  Gov   ciarie8sov    ciarieg g2
Sodding                                 Government responsible for the establishment of structures for
Masonary Head Structure in Gullies      the drainage lines and the villagers (Panchayat) would undertake
Silt Traps                              to maintain through MOU signed with the government on 50:50 basis
Farm Ponds                                                                           -do-
1/ Only if the farmers agree to follow contour cultivation to promote soil and moisture conservation and
also agree to maintain, the structures.
2/ People's contribution in the form of labor.
3/ Government would provide upto Rs. 1200/ha, and farmer would bear the rest of the cost for only 1 ha
per farmer during the entire period of the project in the individual farmer's holding.
4/ Same as in the crop demonstration but the government would provide Rs. 12000/ha and the farmer would
provide the balance.
5/ Farmers would provide their share essentially as labor and the government would provide Rs. 5800.                -
6/ On common property land the maintenance responsibility would be of the people and the Panchayat would
sign MOU with the government to the effect.
F0 0



-147-
Annex I
Page l of
_is=
BITHA  PLA'TAU DrVRL-OPNMR' PR6omTR!'
supervininn PlAn
1.    Bank SuDerviRipn Tnnut.  The supervision plan for the Bihar Plateau
Development project would be designed in a manr.er which recognizes that major
project components, such as minor irrigation, drinking water and involvement
of NGOs and beneficiaries in planning and implementation would be flexible
enough to accommodate changes particularly after a mid-term review in the
third year. It is unrealistic to plan separate supervision missions for each
component. Nevertheless, as a minimum, an annual work plan review of each
component would be undertaken and both a mid-term project review and
completion report preparation would be done during the course of
implementation. Prior to credit effectiveness, GOB would recruit consultants
to assist the Project Director prepare monitoring and evaluation criteria and
conduct baseline social surveys.  An indicative supervision schedule and the
staff inputs required, mainly from the Delhi resident mission, which is being
strengthened in environment and social areas, reflect the concern that
supervision follow a flexible schedule for each component. The staff required
for field supervision are additional to regular supervision needs for the
review of progress reports, procurement and correspondence.
2.   Borrower Contribution to Project SupeXvision.  Periodic progress reports
would be prepared and submitted to the Bank by the borrower. Overall
responsibilities for project monitoring and evaluation and progress reporting
would reside with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). However, each line
department implementing project activities would be responsible for keeping
record of achievements of physical and financial targets and preparation of
progress reports of implementation of their component. The contents and form
of these supervision reports would be determined by the Project Director with
the assistance of independent consultants. Because overall responsibilities
for project supervision resides with PIU, its core staff in the Planning
Monitoring and Evaluation cell would coordinate and facilitate supervision
activities. Also, PIU would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for
Bank Supervision missions and for providing idfformation required. Briefing
meetings on mission arrival would normally be provided by the Project
Director, whereas the wrap-up meetings would be chaired by the Development
Conmissioner at Patna.



-148-
Annex 9
Approximate
Date, Year/                   Expected Staff           Staff input
sam2ater   Activity            R-nuDmflnt              (gtaff w.akal
FY93 I      Supervision       Procurement                    8
Mission           Disbursement
Agriculturist
Finance/MIS
Specialist
FY93 II     Supervision       Irrigation Engineer            6
Mission           Roads Engineer
Anthropologist
Rural Water Supply
Specialist
FY94 I      Supervision       Irrigation Engineer            8
Mission           Roads Engineer
Economist
Anthropologist
Environmentalist
WID Specialist
Agriculturalist
FY94 1I     Supervision       MIS Specialist                 4
Mission           Economist
Anthropologist
Irrigation Engineer
Rural Water Supply
Specialist
FY95 I      Mid-term Review   Independent Consultants        20
FY95 II     Supervision       Agriculturalist                5
Mission           MIS Specialist
Irrigation Engineer
Anthropologist
Roads Engineer
FY96 I      Supervision       Economist                      4
Mission           Irrigation Engineer
MIS Specialist
Environmentalist
FY96 II     Supervision        Irrigation Engineer           4
Mission           Roads Engineer
MIS Specialist
Agriculturalist



-149-
aA"A
PY97 I      Supervision        Economist                      6
Mission           Anthropologist
gnvironmentallst
Irrigation Engineer
Rural Eater Supply
Specialist
FY97 I1     Supervision        MI8 Specialist                  6
mission            Irrigation Engineer
Economist
Roads Engineer
Anthropologist
Agriculturalist



-150-
AnnexL 10
IRIHAR PLTRUDRLPMRNT PR0JRCT
Doeumentg Available in the Pr6leet Pile
1.    Bihar Plateau Project-Interim Preparation Mission-Main
Report and Annexes 1-8, FAPO/CP August_ 991.
2.    Irrigation Component Preparation Report, Rank Miaaign.,
3.    Irrigation Component-Engineering Design Specifications,
Bank Miaminn. Dae. 1991.
4.    Rural Roads Component Preparation Report, Bank MIssion,
Dec. 1991.
5.    Environmental Reconnaissance Report, Rank Mission. Dec.
'U'.
6.    A Review of NGO to Assess their Potential for
Participation in the Project, Rank MTsion, Dpe. 1991.
7.    Review of NGO Capability in Tribal Sub-plan Area of South
Bihar, onmultanth.
8.    Rural Water Supply Component, Bank Mission. Dec. 1991.
9.    Agricultural Development Component, Bank Mission. June.
10.   Bihar Tribal Sub-Plan-1990-1995, COR. June 1991.
11.   Detailed Cost Tables, Bank Mission. July 1992.
12. Rural Roads-Tender Documents-Vol. I, Consultant. June 1992.
13.   Rural Roads-Prequalification Invitation Documents for
Civil Works (Roads and Bridges), Consultant, June 1992.
14.   Rural Roads Tender Documents-Vol. III, Consultant. June
1222.
15.   Rural Roads Proposed Prequalification Procedures,
Coslat  Jn   92



-151l-
Annax 1 n
PAsgz 2 ,o,, 2
16.  Rural Roads Project Report, Consultant. Junk 1992.
17.   Rural Roads Cost Estimates, Conpultant, Juna 1992.
18.   Rural Roads Drawings, to!6flBU1tAnt. J    1Q2.
19.   Zrrigat-Construction of Wells of Plateau Areas of Dumka,
gQa..
20.   Drinking Water-Safe Water through Deep Bore Well Hand
Pump,    E.



U.                                      11111  §
I _                            I         I
§   _                                        *    _I
t-                                e I
' I 1wD                       ZSI



-153-
CM 1i
INDIA
BIHAR PLATEAU DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organogram
.~I I
_J   Cofowmm  J.  cornn
ljJP016RSrS O jNC  DYmmotor   I
| nrtil &     NOOGO        AoI   i
X~~~~& CS AIlo
ft*dc" ~   .             y ol ot I[D la 
010
a<_~~Fl*                      a
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e



3BRD 2374
ES'                      _.+t            84'  r     -                   /          85'B?                     'ti         ,,,8F'                ' At                  87-'-                 B', nS
7  1  .--                            Blharakaref   t, >5                                                 *.P           I2 SS sBhar#harif
J                   Sasarom0                  \'W<
U T TA R -                 /  A         {No   ,                             ,, twada -                    a
Aurangobod(                                 0
UTTAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                BANGayoADESHd
PRADESH                                                                     7ITP   7                                                                                                                        ABNLDS
C                     2                                                                                 SAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wgo  THAL
P---,                                                               R                                                                 A   D   E   S  H \ / s 5 5v'1 / '  )PARGANAS 
i-b 7  REGION
f    xJz                                                     %                                            >O    ¢Oum5__,,L  ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L,
9                                 .  5             ~~~~~~        ~        ~        ~~~~~~             ~          ~~~~~Giridih  WEST\ -teAt
15W                                    * S   i-tsHazaribagh           R I  5          n                           (j                        B ENGAL              24,
B HANrARIA  r__-'-      .t.e HANDWA   t               v                       / V           2/ -
t   \- 7' l          KISKO    'V      \  .................   '                                     /                                                N D IA
PRADESHt4NAg .} F           \ <'3AKRU                                                                                                       BIHAR PLATEAU
MADHYA  PRADESH                                                          M'DAR                                                                                                      DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
<<, ,./   ''  M ' } RO  .'  'h  ' S         /                                                          BLOCKS UNDER THE PROJECT
!3'                                      /1- GltAGHRA I  I  I                   CHOTANAGPUR
~3,3- 'I CHOENPUR tP                                               - /L                         W        BN                                                                             TRIBAM CONCENTRATIONS BY BLOCK:
NEPAL                     G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.                                                                                        MORE THAN 70%                       25'
I    N                                                E        P  A                                       t /SI K I(lbl -23- % % '\ \ 0 @Gumq,  1  5'i r ,-< , 7   L-   2   E   ia   v/_,,   ;>   S CLOSE TO 70%
-SH&t ,  \ R         A       iKOT uJ                                   I  .'  i '-r 65-67.5%
RAID ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    go IH6
N                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PALKOT                                                  E
.. -0 S...f .Efr ?j     .      /                        '       '        AO                                     'NN  '                                     DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
Rkogolptr0            ,,,.r~~~~~~S  GA        ROELEIA       IRA           A- --- BLOCK BOUNDARIES
AUwnOEOhd                 I  ,                                                                                                                         ....,- ',,               -       DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
BIHAR  .2\TRRINAIEAMaAB'   JALDEGA    ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"' ~~RErION BOUNDARIES
B I H A  R   t   .-   .    ,TM ETHrANG           AIDGA   ' I                              -    7       %A I     ,  r                                            STATE BOUNDARIES
\ Dhonbod0                                                                                     '5       ii7tt                 B                   3A                 >   .......... ,;> ~ ......... n~   ...   %   ,; TCN IO -   _.- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
HYA                        DENGAL                                                                                                                             .                 0 "f  .
ESH }       Jom.k.dpur0 7                  Em .ap ha. L.a. pnpm.,d 6 etb lerSJ*P lb. Wa4d&aIf.hadA.i  ,       >                                                                      _ 10    20    30 4,    0 s,0 6         MLES
alma~  ,_    j  \  Q -                 ,apd.h+it4b rfilP~.[rX<>4ddc.sS>mlPM           - _ -,5,. d                                         ORIS                                      20       40       60       KOGLOMMERTRS
ORISSA              6a   _  -22'                                              ES' a,s-                        a< 7           t6                              !  ,,.                                       aa- ,h22'
0,11SSA  -22-    a4-                                               w                                                                                           JULY 1 "2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JLYIt



