Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2439 IN
                         Project Agreement
                (Bihar Plateau Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                          STATE OF BIHAR
                      Dated December 17, 1992
\0c                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2439 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF BIHAR, acting
by its Governor (Bihar).
      WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to eighty million seven hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 80,700,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that Bihar agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
      WHEREAS Bihar, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
Page  2
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) Bihar declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and Bihar shall
otherwise agree, Bihar shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Bihar shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.04. (a) Bihar shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
      (b)   Bihar shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Bihar of its obligations under this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) Bihar shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project
of the departments or agencies of Bihar responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   Bihar shall:
            (i)    have its records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than nine months after
                   the end of each such year, the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Association shall have
                   reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and financial statements as well as the audit
Page  3
                   thereof, as the Association shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Bihar thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
            (i)    the date on which the Development Credit
                   Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                   terms; or
           (ii)    the date twenty (20) years after the date of
                   this Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify Bihar of
this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
\0c                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For Bihar:
            Chief Secretary
            Government of Bihar
            Patna, PIN 800015
            Bihar, India
                                           Telex:
                                             022-2332
                                             022-2336
\0c      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Page  4
Agreement on behalf of Bihar may be taken or executed by its Chief
Secretary or such other person or persons as Bihar shall designate
in writing, and Bihar shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                              By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                              STATE OF BIHAR
                              By /s/ Narayan Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative
 \0c                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:    International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in India  may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works for construction of dams, water conveyance
systems, new minor irrigation schemes, drinking water supply
facilities, rural roads and buildings, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Civil works for rehabilitation of irrigation schemes, con-
struction of dug-wells and water harvesting tanks, and repair and
maintenance of roads and minor irrigation schemes estimated to cost
the equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $5,000,000 may be carried out by force account
in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
Page  5
to $100,000, and construction materials up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Materials and equipment, seeds, seedlings, fertilizer, and
breeding stock, estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $5,700,000, may be procured in accordance with Bihar's
procurement procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist in carrying out the Project, Bihar shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
\0c                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.    Bihar shall establish a Project Implementation Unit under the
Regional Development Commissioner, Ranchi, with members, staff,
responsibilities, which include delegated administrative and
financial powers, satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Bihar shall refrain from implementing minor irrigation
programs that are subsidized in the blocks implementing similar
schemes supported by the Credit in the Project Area.
3.    Bihar shall, without limitation to the provisions of Section
Page  6
2.01 (a) of this Agreement, make adequate and timely budgetary
provisions to cover recurrent costs of its department and agencies
incurred in implementing the Project.
4.    Bihar shall cause its departments and agencies to consult with
the beneficiaries of the Project in the design, preparation  and
implementation of the relevant parts of the Project.
5.    Bihar shall introduce, and cause the Water User Groups to
collect, charges sufficient to cover the cost of operation and
maintenance of facilities constructed or rehabilitated under the
Project, in consultation with the Association.
6.    Bihar shall, by June 30, 1995 conduct a comprehensive mid-term
review with the Association with regard to actions taken pursuant to
the carrying out of the Project.
7.    Bihar shall, upon completion of installation of hand pumps,
transfer the ownership and responsibility for operation and
maintenance of drinking water facilities provided under the Project
to the respective village panchayats.
8.    Bihar shall, in accordance with a plan and time-table
satisfactory to the Association, transfer the ownership and
responsibility for operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes
provided under the Project to the respective panchayats and Water
User Groups.
9.    Bihar shall implement criteria satisfactory to the Association
for the selection of roads to be constructed and rehabilitated under
the Project.
10.   In the event of any persons being involuntarily displaced as
a result of the Project, Bihar shall make arrangements satisfactory
to the Association, for the resettlement and rehabilitation of such
persons.
11.   Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions, Bihar shall implement a program satisfactory to
the Association for the acquisition of land required for the
Project.
