Report No. PIC3395
Project Name                      Bosnia Herzegovina-Emergency Recovery...
Project
Region                            Europe and Central Asia
Sector                            Emergency Project
Project ID                        BAPA6780
Borrower                          Bosnia and Herzegovina
Implementing Agency               Ministry of Finance
Date This PID Prepared            February 15, 1996
Projected Board Date              February 29, 1996
A.   Project Scope and Objectives
The Emergency Recovery Project is designed to help rehabilitate and
restore Bosnia and Herzegovina's severely damaged productive capacity
and infrastructure facilities, to initiate production and economic
activities in a war-devastated economy, including the encouragement of
private initiatives, to assist in the establishment of a minimum level
of institutional framework for country governance and policy formulation
that will be required for an effective implementation of the country's
reconstruction program, as well as to help address severe hardship faced
by certain groups of the population in the immediate post-war transition
period. The project will provide resources to Bosnia and Herzegovina to
help finance urgently needed inputs, including goods, works, and
technical assistance, for the rehabilitation of key infrastructure
sectors (power and transport sector). It will support agricultural and
industrial production (through provision of critical inputs and lines of
credit) and restore government administrative infrastructures and
operational capacity (through financing for repairing damaged government
buildings, provisioning of essential office equipment and other
technical assistance, as well as salary support).
B.   Project Description
To achieve these objectives, the project includes in its design
four components: (i) critical imports for agriculture, power, and
transport to help to restore basic infrastructure facilities in the
transport and energy sectors and to start agricultural production in
1996; (ii) two lines of credit for small and medium-sized enterprises
and microenterprises to support production recovery in agro-processing
and manufacturing activities of mostly private sector based initiatives;
(iii) support for the functioning of key governmental institutions
through provisioning of financing for repairing damaged government
buildings, acquisition of urgently needed office equipment and other
technical assistance for government operations, as well as provisioning
of needed salary supplements; and (iv) support for an Emergency Social
Fund for the particularly vulnerable groups of the population. A brief
description of these components is as follows:
(i) Critical Imports. This component will provide urgently needed



inputs to the agriculture, power and transport sectors.
Inputs such as seeds, fertilizers, and pesticides will be
provided for the Spring and the Fall planting seasons of 1996.
Critical imports for the power sector include hydroplant,
distribution and transmission equipment, and spare parts and
materials required for the immediate restoration of power to
households and production facilities. Critical imports for
the transport sector include construction equipment that will
be needed immediately to start the rehabilitation and
reconstruction program for the transport sector.
(ii)     Lines of Credit for small and medium-sized enterprises
and for microenterprises. Given Bosnia and Herzegovina's
clear objective to become a private initiative-driven market
economy, it is very important that the reconstruction itself
not become an exclusively public sector effort. While
government and donors will have to provide for the
rehabilitation of most infrastructure, production in
agriculture and industry should, from the very beginning, rely
as much as possible on private activity. Two lines of credit,
one targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises and another
at microenterprises, will be established. The objective of
both of the lines of credit is to obtain quick re-starting of
enterprises. Funds from these lines of credit will be
channelled to eligible enterprises through qualified banks and
non-bank credit institutions (NBCIs, such as the Soros
Foundation). These lines of credit will be established within
an agreed framework and strategy for rapid privatization of
banks and enterprises.
(iii)    Support for the functioning of key governmental
institutions at the State, Federation and local levels is an
indispensable element of the strategy to restore productive
and social activities after the war devastation. A minimal
level of institutional capacity at the government level has to
be immediately restored/established in order to make it
possible and effective in implementing a large-scale
reconstruction program that the authorities and the donor
community have jointly initiated. This component will provide
financing for acquisition of essential office equipment
including telecommunications facilities, computers and
vehicles, as well as provide other technical assistance
including training, and advisory services; it will also
provide financing for salary supplements to the employees of
the State and the Federation Government within a uniform
government wage structure that is able to attract and retain
qualified people to work in the government; and finally, it
will provide financing to repair damaged government buildings
both in Sarajevo and Mostar in order for government employees
to benefit from at least minimum standards of safety and
comfort in their office environment. The beneficiaries of the
component will include, for the technical assistance
subcomponent: the State Central Bank and State Ministry of
Finance, the Federation Banking Supervision Agency, the
Federation Customs Administration, Federation Tax
- 2 -



Administration, and Federation Ministry of Finance, as well as
all cantonal budgetary institutions; and for the components of
salary supplements and building repairs; the beneficiary will
be the State and the Federation government.
(iv) The Emergency Social Fund is another key element of the
Project which will be partially financed from the Grant.
Continued outflow of human resources in the face of an
impoverished economic situation following the war is expected
to be a serious obstacle to the country's reconstruction and
recovery program. Preserving and restoring the productive
capacity of human capital is a critical element of the post-
war reconstruction in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The project
will finance the establishment and operation of an Emergency
Social Fund. This fund will provide minimal levels of cash
assistance for the poorest households in 1996 to help overcome
their difficulties in the transitional period, and support to
orphans and the war-injured through provision of direct
assistance and retraining programs in selected areas. The
cash assistance will be entirely financed by donor funds,
while the Grant will support the establishment and operating
costs of the Fund. The Fund will be established at the
Ministry of Refugees and Social Affairs and will observe a
uniform policy for distributing benefits across the
Federation. The distribution of benefits will be managed at
the level of the municipalities.
C.   Project Costs and Financing
The total project cost is US$160 million equivalent. Of the US$160
million, the Bank will provide US$30 million from the proposed TFBH as
a Credit, at concessional terms identical to those offered by the
International Development Association (IDA), and US$15 million as a
Grant. The balance of US$115 million is expected to be financed from
other donors, including the Netherlands Trust Fund (US$31.2 million),
the EU (US$8.84 million), the Government of Switzerland, (US$5.69
million), the Soros Foundation (US$5 million), the EBRD (US$5 million),
the Government of Canada (US$3.6 million), the Government of United
Kingdom (US$0.91 million), and the Government of Luxembourg (US$0.52
million), with expected contributions from other donors to finance the
remaining gap. The Grant will be used only to finance the "Support to
Key Government Institutions" and the "Emergency Social Fund" components.
The Credit will be used only to finance the "Lines of Credit" and
"Critical Imports" components. Part or all of the cost of the inputs to
be provided under the Critical Imports component will be recovered,
subject to specific conditions in individual sectors. Grant financing
from TFBH is expected to be used, in all cases as seed money, for
support to the emerging government administration (the salary
supplements component), the establishment and operation of the Emergency
Social Fund (funding of administrative apparatus), and technical
assistance (to the key governmental institutions).
D.   Project Implementation
To steer implementation, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be
-3 -



established with representatives of the State and the Federation
governments. The services of the PCU will be shared by both of them.
The PCU will have the following responsibilities:
(i)   overall project coordination, monitoring and progress
reporting;
(ii) implementation responsibility for the components on support
for the functioning of governmental institutions and on lines of
credit;
(iii)      procurement of goods and technical assistance under all
components, in close collaboration with the government ministries
and departments responsible for their respective components;
(iv) management of funds, including maintenance of a Special
Account in a commercial bank; transfer of funds from the Special
Account to implementing entities; payment for goods, works and
services for all components from the Special Account in close
cooperation with all the agencies and the government ministries and
departments involved; withdrawal of funds from the donor trust
funds managed by the Bank and from the Bank's TFBH;
(v)   verification of payment requests; proper maintenance of
project progress accounts, and project records;
(vi) audit of project accounts and preparation of project progress
reports and project completion report.
In cooperation with the PCU, the Federation Ministry of Refugees
and Social Affairs will be responsible for implementation of the
Emergency Social Fund component, and the Ministry of Energy and
Industry, the Ministry of Transport and EPBiH among others, for
implementation of the critical imports component.    It is anticipated
that project components will vary greatly with regard to ease of
implementation. Project design therefore incorporates flexibility, both
within particular components, and between components, in order to make
use of experience gained during implementation. The overall
coordination role of the PCU will be important in ensuring smooth and
timely project execution.
Contact Point:        Public Information Center
The World Bank
Task Manager, Wei Ding, EC2CO
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
(202) 458-9105 (tel)
(202) 477-1692 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



