Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19481
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(BA-SF-44389)
June 25, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 1, 1999)
Currency Unit: Konvertible Marka (KM) 1 KM equivalent 1 to I Deutsche Mark from August 1998
1 KM    =    US$ 0.55
1 US$    =    KM  1.81
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1996          1997         June 1996      December 1996       June 1997         Dec 1998
1.50          1.73           1.53              1.55              1.73              1.65
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
metric system
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DM       Deutsche mark
ERP      Emergency Recovery Project
EBPAC       Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization
FMSA       Federation Ministry of Social Affairs, Displaced Persons and
Refugees '
GDP       Gross domestic product
GTZ      Deutsche Gesellschaft Fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Agency
MWO        Municipal Welfare Offices
NGO       Nongovernmental Organization
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PMAU        Procurement Management and Auding Unit
TAC       Transition Assistance Credit
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:        Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:      Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Leader:         Kyle Peters, ECSPE
Responsible staff:     Baelhadj Merghoub, ECC04 Consultant
Task Manager:          Pedro Rodriguez, ECSPE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(BA-SF-44389)
CONTENTS
Preface.                                                                                i
Evaluation Summary ........................                                           iii
Part I  Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Background and Project Objectives .1
B.   Outcome and Achievement of Objectives                        .3
Critical Imports                              .3
Line of Credit                               .5
Support for Functioning of Key Government Institutions          .5
Emergency Social Fund                             .6
C.      Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project       .9
D.   Major Factors Affecting the Project .12
E. Bank Performance .14
F.  Borrower Performance .15
G. Assessment of Outcome .15
H. Future Operation .15
I. Lessons Learned .16
Text Tables:
On-Lending Terms of Different ERP Components                 .4
Emergency Social Fund: Actual Costs and Financing Sources by Subcomponent   . 7
ERP Planned and Actual Expenditures .1
ERP Disbursement Profile: Cumulative Estimated And Actual Disbursements       12
Text Figures:
General Financing For ERP .10
Part II Statistical Tables and Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .........................                             17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................18
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 3: Project Timetable ..........................................................                                                          20
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........................................ 20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .........................................................                                   21
Table 6: Studies Included  in Project .........................................................                                                22
Table 7: Project Costs and Project Financing .........................................................                                         23
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants .........................................................                                                   24
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .........................................................    28
Table  10: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs .........................................................                                             29
Table  11: Bank Resources: Missions .........................................................                                                  29
Annex  1: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR .........................................................                                         31
Federation Ministry  of Social Affairs, Displaced Persons and Refugees ........................... 33
Federation Ministry of Finance .........................................................                                          45
Annex 2: Cofinancier Contribution to the ICR ..........................................................                                        49
Italian Government .........................................................                                                      51
Annex 3: Project Information  Prepared by PCU  for the ICR  .......................................................... 53
Table 3.1: Financing Plan ..........................................................                                                            55
Table 3.2: Repairs to Government Buildings ..........................................................                                          56
Table 3.3: Support to Key Government Institutions ..........................................................                                   57
Table 3.4: Pilots and Project Implementation Units ..........................................................                                  58
Annex 4: Structure of Expenditures by Trust Fund ..........................................................                                    59
Table 4.1: Netherlands Grant (TF  20874) ..........................................................                                            61
Table 4.2: Japanese Grant (TF  23466) ..........................................................                                               63
Table 4.3: Switzerland, Luxembourg and Iceland (TF  24010) ........................................................ 64
Table 4.4: IDA  Credit and IDA  Grant (TF  24036 and TF  24037) ................................................... 65
Table 4.5: Canadian Grant (TF24050) ..........................................................                                                 66
Table 4.6: Swedish Grant (TF24051) ..........................................................                                                  66
Table 4.5: Italian Grants (TF24071 and TF24072) ..........................................................                                     66



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT (BA-SF-44389)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency Recovery Project (ERP) in
Bosnia and Herzegovina. The project was financed by a US$30 million credit and a US$15 million grant,
which were approved on February 29, 1996 and made effective on March 19, 1996. The funds were
administered by the International Development Association (IDA) as part of the Trust Fund for Bosnia
and Herzegovina. The Trust Fund was established by the Board of Governors of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), acting on the recommendation of the Board of Executive
Directors of both IBRD (Resolution No. 96-1) and IDA (Resolution No. IDA 96-1).
The credit and the grant were closed on June 30, 1998, six months after the original closing date
of December 31, 1997. They were fully disbursed, with the last disbursement taking place on September
10, 1998. IDA also administered cofinancing provided by the governments of Canada, Iceland, Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Sweden, and Switzerland. The cofinancing was closed between
December 31, 1997 and December 31, 1998.
This report is based on the findings of a mission to Bosnia and Herzegovina by Elliott Hurwitz,
Baelhadj Merghoub, and Patrizia Poggi November 8-18, 1998. Mission findings were complemented by
the President's Report, Supervision Reports, Assessment Reports, correspondence between IDA and the
Borrower, and other relevant internal Bank documents. The borrower and one cofinancier provided
comments that are included as appendixes to this report.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(BA-SF-44389)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   Background and Project Objectives. The Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement of December 1995
ended a war that killed a quarter of a million people. The war in Bosnia and Herzegovina also displaced
another 2.5 million people, causing a huge movement of refugees inside the country and outside its
borders. The war produced widespread poverty and severely damaged infrastructure and government
facilities. Government authorities developed a Four-Year Reconstruction Program and presented it to the
Donors Conference in December 1995 in Brussels. The program included policy actions for:
* Macroeconomic stabilization and strengthening of institutions for economic management.
* Transition to a market economy.
* Reconstruction of priority infrastructure to revive the economy and promote the return of refugees.
* Normalization of the external debt situation to mobilize assistance from the international community.
2.   The Emergency Recovery Project (ERP) was the first in a series of IDA-financed operations in
support of this program. The ERP was prepared and initiated even before Bosnia and Herzegovina
became a Bank Group member. It aimed to:
* Restoration of damaged infrastructure and productive capacity.
* Jump-starting production and economic activity of the private sector.
* Assist to re-establish a minimal level of institutional capacity for country governance and policy
formulation.
* Helping to alleviate severe hardships faced by the most vulnerable groups.
3.   The ERP focused on the Federation and state levels. No direct support was envisaged for
Republika Srpska, the other entity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which at the time of project approval had
not yet begun to implement peace accords. An operation similar to the ERP, the Reconstruction
Assistance Credit, was prepared for Republika Srpska and approved by the Board in 1998.
4.   Evaluation of Project Objectives. The four project objectives were clear and well adapted to the
war-shattered economy and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Infrastructure repair and rapid
restoration of government institutions were critical for restarting economic activity, improving standards
of living, and alleviating the suffering of war victims. The performance monitoring indicators were also
appropriate, although they could have been more specific, given the number of project components and
sub-components. In hindsight, the objectives set out by the project were ambitious in view of Bosnia and
Herzegovina's limited ability to rapidly implement a framework for governance and the reduced capacity



iv
of the private sector to restart economic activity. IDA has followed up these key aspects of the transition
through a number of subsequent operations.
5.   Outcome and Achievement of Objectives. The focus of the project was appropriate to the
challenges faced by Bosnia and Herzegovina after the war, and the outcome of the project was
satisfactory. The project contributed to immediate economic recovery through job creation, restoration of
key infrastructure, and the provision of income support to the poorest households. The project
accomplished this goals through its four components.
6.   The Critical Imports component supported imports of critical inputs needed to restore
infrastructure. It contributed to the restoration of a hydropower plant and key transmission lines, thus
increasing the reliability of the energy supply. It also supported a vast road reconstruction program by
financing imports of construction equipment. This equipment (except for a rock crushing plant) is now
being fully utilized by a variety of enterprises and government agencies across all cantons of the
Federation. Equipment costs are being repaid on schedule, increasing the lending base of the line of
credit. However, the low interest rate charged to public construction companies may have unintentionally
contributed to their recapitalization before their privatization.
7.   The Enterprise Credit Line component on-lent US$38 million to private small and medium-size
enterprises in less than 28 months-or 1.5 times the credit line's actual allocation of US$24 million.
About 4,845 jobs in a variety of manufacturing activities were generated through these loans. This
component also improved the banking sector's capacity to appraise and manage risks by making the
participating commercial banks responsible for all risks, closely monitoring their performance, and
providing technical assistance when appropriate. Repayment has been satisfactory, both from enterprises
to banks and from banks to the line of credit. The provision of resources has been timely since domestic
savings continue to be extremely low.
8.   The Support for Functioning of Key Government Institutions component contributed greatly to
restoring the government's ability to function, by:
*  Helping to setup or unify the Banking Supervision Agency (through the IDA-managed Swiss Trust
Fund), the Federation Customs and Tax Administration, the Federation privatization agencies, the 10
cantonal budget offices, the debt monitoring unit of the Federation Ministry of Finance, the State
Central Bank and the State Ministry of Trade and Economic Relations (the ministry responsible for
debt management and, until the end of 1997, for the state budget).
* Rehabilitating about 50,000 square meters of office space in some 27 government buildings in
Sarajevo and Mostar.
*  Providing equipment in accordance with institutional development plans.
*  Financing strategically important advisory services that were unavailable from other donors, such as
legal advice for concluding the successful debt restructuring agreement with the London Club, and
the opening of the new Central Bank's balance sheet.
*  Helping identify and prepare priority projects, as specified in the IDA-managed Netherlands Trust
Fund, which subsequently attracted significant donor support.
* Helping to harmonize government salaries across ethnic groups within the newly created state and
Federation administrations.



v
9.   The Social Fund component helped set up programs for the poorest households, people with
disabilities and orphans, by:
*  Introducing a cash benefit program targeted on the basis of household income and wealth to replace
the pre-war one based on household characteristics (such as, the number of children), which was
shown to be poorly targeted. Ex-post evaluation of targeting, and financial management of the
program were found to be satisfactory. It also contributed in the ongoing processes of building civil
society, clarifying the role of the government, and providing a mechanism for dialogue across
communities formerly at war. However, the program failed to establish a durable social safety net as
envisioned, because of competing pressing demands on constrained budgets-including pensions,
health care, and veterans benefits-and institutional bottlenecks for timely processing of benefits.
* Supporting successful subprojects for training and employing disabled people, and providing
wheelchairs and other mobility aids, hearing aids and, for the most disabled people, rehabilitation.
*  Supporting foster care for orphans, which has met many of their emotional, educational,
developmental, and physical needs. This subcomponent also financed the emergency rehabilitation of
Federation facilities for orphans or children with disabilities. However, access to stable sources of
financing to keep these activities running will remain problematic until the broader issues of public
finance are resolved-something that is being addressed with IDA support through two recently
approved adjustment operations related to public finance reforms.
10.  Expenditures. Costs for the four components above were estimated at US$160 million.
Expenditures were US$30 million less than expected. The shortfall was accounted for largely by the
Federation government's decision, with the IDA's concurrence, to reduce the scope of the cash benefit
program under the Social Fund component from 12 monthly payments to 5 quarterly payments. Donor
support, and the growing fiscal revenue of the Federation, was instead redirected toward essential health
and pension programs. The govermnent's decision was motivated by the complexity of the
implementation arrangements for the cash benefit program relative to the weak institutional capacity, the
rapidly rising number of beneficiaries, and the overlapping of the cash benefits with pensions and
veterans benefits.
11.  The US$130 million was implemented through the Project Coordination Unit (PCU; US$111
million) and direct donor channels (US$19 million). The PCU-managed funds included an IDA credit
(US$30 million), an IDA grant (US$15 million), cofinancing from several donors (about US$65 million),
and bilateral technical assistance to the PCU (US$1.5 million) in the essential areas of procurement
(British Know-How Fund) and the line of credit management (German Gesellschaft Fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit, GTZ). Donor funding implemented outside the PCU covered a number of activities,
including agricultural inputs, advisory services for key government institutions, and credit lines for
various productive purposes.
12.  Management. The ERP's success was aided greatly by strong leadership at the most senior levels
of the PCU and well-functioning departments staffed with, relatively few, dedicated and technically
competent personnel. The PCU's work was bolstered by effective backstopping from the Resident
Mission and day-to-day supervision from Headquarters. Extensive project monitoring and evaluation
promoted feedback and project management accountability. Well-targeted technical assistance from the
European Union, The Know-How Fund, GTZ, and the United States government helped to enhance the
PCU staff's professional competence and performance.



vi
13.  Factors Subject to Government Control that Affected the Project. The ERP was implemented
in an environment in which governments at the state and the Federation levels were essentially operating
along ethnic lines. These ethnic tensions often hampered implementation progress during the first year of
the project.
14.  Factors Not Subject to Government Control that Affected the Project. Several cofinanciers
chose not to use the PCU as their main implementing agency, making it difficult to implement activities
requiring close collaboration, such as, reconstruction of government buildings. On the other hand, during
the project implementation period, the strengthening of the US Dollar strengthened by about 31 percent
relative to the Deutsche Mark, providing funds to cover a larger volume of activities than was anticipated
at appraisal.
15.  Sustainability. The Support of Government Institutions and Line of Credit components are
considered highly sustainable, followed closely by the Critical Imports component. The Social Fund
component is considered less sustainable:
* For the Support to Government Institutions component, key institutions were set-up, unified, or
strengthened with strict consideration of their proper role in a market economy. This approach helped
considerably to advance the institutional development process.
* The Line of Credit has had a positive repayment record and is expected to continue on-lending capital
until the banking sector is strong enough to attract domestic savings. The line of credit was also
instrumental in jump starting private sector activities in the inmediate post-war conditions. Public
intervention in credit markets (credit allocation, interest rate controls), was strictly limited through
project guidelines and implementation arrangements. Further, the line of credit will be privatized along
with other state-owned commercial banks under a program supported by IDA's Enterprise and Banking
Privatization Structural Adjustment Credit.
*  The sustainability of the Critical Imports component depends on structural reforms in the power
sector (introduction of cost-reflective tariffs, reduction of financial and technical losses, and
management improvements) and in the transport sector (privatization of construction companies, and
private competition for Government road operation and maintenance contracts). IDA's Second
Transport and Second Power projects are helping the entity governments address these issues.
* Sustainability is likely for some subcomponents of the Social Fund that will require little or no future
budgetary transfers, such as training and employment programs for the disabled. Sustainability is
constrained in other subcomponents, such as foster care, children's institutions, and rehabilitation of the
disabled, by the lack of a Federation-level framework for financing social assistance and health care.
IDA is supporting further reform in these areas under subsequent operations, notably the Second
Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit and the Basic Health Project. Although institutional
constraints shortened the duration of the cash benefit program, it still filled an important gap in social
protection while pensions and other safety nets were resuscitated and reformed.
16.  Summary of Findings and Future Operations. Apart from the cash benefit of the Social Fund
component, the overall sustainability of the project is assessed as likely. Bank and Borrower
performances are assessed as satisfactory, to the extent that the ERP was prepared in a record time of
three months from identification mission to Board presentation and implemented within an acceptable
time frame for an emergency, multisectoral, operation (28 months). The project met most of its key
objectives and substantially achieved its intended developmental impact. The project also achieved its



vii
goal of mobilizing resources from nearly a dozen cofinanciers and preparing priority pilot operations that
subsequently received substantial further donor financing.
17. Lessons Learned. Most of the lessons learned from this emergency operation can be applied to
regular operations-particularly the lessons concerning the project's organization and management,
monitoring and evaluation, and borrower ownership and flexibility in the execution.
* Although speed is the prime concern in emergency projects, serious consideration should also be
given to developing parallel programs for strengthening the long-term sustainability of reconstruction
investments.
*  An adequate amount of well-targeted and well-coordinated technical assistance is crucial for realizing
emergency project objectives of institution building and development impact.
*  IDA can leverage its activities very effectively through early and consistent attention tocofinancing
possibilities and the use of pilot operations.
*  A flexible approach to project execution can yield substantial benefits for the Borrower and IDA in
terms of implementation performance, speed, and development impact.
*  Early establishment of monitoring and auditing systems provides continuous feedback that increases
project effectiveness and accountability.
X  Emergency operations require a director of the project executing agency who is both professionally
competent and of sufficient political stature to cut through red tape.
*  Backstopping on the ground by the Resident Mission and intensive supervision from Headquarters are
essential for the effective execution of emergency projects.



viii



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(BA-SF-44389)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   BACKGROUND AND PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Background
1.   The Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement of December 1995 ended a war that killed a quarter of a
million people. The war in Bosnia and Herzegovina also displaced another 2.5 million people, causing a
huge movement of refugees inside the country and outside its borders. The war produced widespread
poverty and severely damaged infrastructure and government facilities. The end of hostilities presented
authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina with three pressing challenges:
.  Economic recovery and reconstruction. Bridges, roads, factories, hospitals, schools, and other
infrastructure needed to be repaired or rebuilt, refugees needed to be resettled, demobilized soldiers
needed employment, and orphans and disabled people needed assistance.
* Establishment of government institutions consistent with the new structure laid out in the Dayton-
Paris Agreement, including separation of state and Federation governments and a unified state central
bank. Basic government services needed to be restored and the infrastructure of government (offices,
communications, information technology, and other equipment) needed to be rebuilt.
•  Transition to a market economy. Far-reaching reforms were needed, including the establishment of a
legal and institutional framework capable of energizing a market economy and supporting
privatization of enterprises and banks.
2.   Government authorities developed a Four-Year Reconstruction Program and presented it to the
Donors Conference in December 1995 in Brussels. The program included four elements: macroeconomic
stabilization and establishment of institutions for macroeconomic management, development of the
framework and institutions for a market economy, physical reconstruction and the return of refugees and
displaced persons, and the normalization of external economic and financial relations and mobilization of
donor assistance. The Program, estimated at US$5.1 billion, was endorsed by the international donor
community.
3.   As a first step in its reconstruction assistance, the Bank established a strong Resident Mission that
could provide rapid response to the government on project issues and offer on-the-spot technical
assistance. In addition, the Bosnian authorities, the Bank, and key donors established countrywide task
forces to ensure effective donor coordination. The Bank took the lead role in many of these task forces.
The immediate postwar strategy of the Bank followed two tracks:



2
* An emergency assistance program to meet immediate needs even before financial normalization and
Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in the Bank Group.' This was financed from a special Bosnia
and Herzegovina Trust Fund, and the Bank also sought to mobilize cofinancing and parallel
financing.
* Following normalization of Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in the Bank, a medium-term
assistance strategy of lending and technical assistance. This assistance program would support policy
and institutional reforms in addition to financing physical reconstruction in a broad range of sectors
including transport, water, health, and education.
4.   The two-track approach was effective in strengthening the overall impact of the immediate postwar
reconstruction effort. Under this umbrella, the Bank prepared the Emergency Recovery Project, the first
in a series of emergency projects by the Bank and the international community supporting the
Reconstruction Program (Table 2). When the ERP was initiated, the country's GDP had plunged to a
quarter of its prewar level, poverty was widespread, and the majority of the population was living wholly
or partly on humanitarian assistance. The ERP focused on the Federation and state levels. No direct
support was envisaged for the Republika Srpska, the other entity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which at the
time of project approval had not yet begun to implement peace accords. An operation similar to the ERP,
the Reconstruction Assistance Credit, was prepared for Republika Srpska and approved by the Board in
1998.
5.   A parallel operation, the Transition Assistance Credit (TAC), provided a policy framework for
some of the ERP activities. This include actions such as, unification of the two Customs Administration
and the two Payment Systems in the Federation, and creation of a framework for intergovernment fiscal
relations, health and pensions, banking regulation and for the privatization of banks and enterprises.
Subsequent IDA operations have supported further developments in these areas.
Project Objectives
6.   The ERP was designed to:
* Restore most damaged priority infrastructure and productive capacity in the Federation.
* Jump start production and economic activity in the Federation (including encouragement of private
initiatives).
* Assist in re-establishing at least a minimal level of institutional capacity for critical governmental
functions at the various levels (State, Federation and cantons).
* Help alleviate severe hardships faced by certain vulnerable groups of the population in the Federation.
7.   At appraisal, the ERP was expected to accomplish the above objectives through four main
components:
* Critical Imports, estimated at US$43 million, were to provide urgently needed inputs to the power,
transport (construction equipment), and agricultural sectors.
* An Enterprises Credit Line, estimated at US$30 million, was to help small and medium-size
enterprises restart their activities. Because of Bosnia and Herzegovina's strong prewar banking
'After Bosnia and Herzegovina joined the IMF in December 1995 and agreement was reached on a plan to resolve
Bosnia and Herzegovina's IBRD arrears, the country's membership in the Bank Group was reactivated on June 13,
1996 (retroactive to February 25, 1993). The Bank's postwar strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina is set out in
"World Bank Membership for Bosnia and Herzegovina and Proposed Financial Assistance," March 5, 1996.



3
tradition, the funds were channeled through commercial banks, which bear all credit and foreign
exchange risks and which onlent the funds at positive real interest rates.
Support for Functioning of Key Government Institutions, estimated at US$33 million, was to re-
establish at least a minimal level of institutional capacity through purchases of essential equipment,
repair of buildings, and technical assistance. A number of agencies key for economic management
was especially targeted. Salary supplements were paid to establish a unified wage structure across the
state and Federation governments and to promote institutional integration by attracting nationals from
the majority-Croat and Bosniac areas. Finally, this component also launched project preparation and
implementation activities for follow-on priority projects under the reconstruction program.
* Emergency Social Fund, estimated at US$54 million, was to provide small amounts of cash assistance
to the poorest households to help orphans and disabled people to normalize their lives and to
strengthen the capacity of the Federation Ministry of Social Affairs, Displaced Persons and Refugees.
8.   These four components were estimated to cost about US$160 million. Actual expenditures
implemented by the PCU amounted to only US$111.3 million, largely because of lower than expected
expenditures for cash assistance (see paragraphs 37 and 39 below).
Evaluation of Objectives
9.   The project objectives were clear and highly relevant to Bosnia and Herzegovina's war-shattered
economy and institutions. Plainly, without basic infrastructure repair and working capital for private
enterprises there could be little progress in restarting economic activity. The improved functioning of
government was critical for restoring the ability to raise revenue, successfully implementing the large-
scale reconstruction and economic development program, and establishing the new structures called for in
the Dayton-Paris Agreements. There was also an urgent and compelling need to create the necessary
institutional framework to help poor people, war victims, orphans, disabled people, and other vulnerable
groups hardest hit by the war. Performance monitoring indicators were adequate, although they could
have been more specific given the number of components and subcomponents in the project. In hindsight,
the objectives set out by the project were ambitious in view of Bosnia and Herzegovina's limited ability
to rapidly implement a framework for governance and the reduced capacity of the private sector to restart
economic activity. IDA has followed up these key aspects of the transition through a number of
subsequent operations.
B. OUTCOME AND ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
10. Despite the urgent and difficult circumstances under which the project was implemented, the
components and sub-components largely achieved their goals, except for the cash benefit subcomponent.
Overall, the project met most of its key objectives and substantially achieved its intended development
impact.
Critical Imports
11. The Critical Imports component achieved its objectives. All equipment required for power and
transport sectors was procured through competitive bidding in accordance with the stipulations of the
Grant and Credit Agreements. The component was a useful vehicle for imposing much-needed
procurement discipline on budgetary institutions and public enterprises (this is true for other components
as well). And contractual debt service from construction and power companies to the PCU was current as
of project closure, increasing the lending base of the line of credit.



4
12.  In the power sector, the designated hydropower installation, thermal stations, and transmission
lines were restored to working condition-with financing from IDA and the Swiss and Netherlands Trust
Funds. These restorations, together with works under IDA's Emergency Power Rehabilitation Project,
increased the reliability of energy supply. In addition, the restoration of a hydropower plant has allowed
the company to earn foreign exchange by exporting surplus production to Croatia. In the transport sector,
all highway repair and maintenance equipment was in place and, except for one rock crushing plant, the
equipment is in full use by a variety of publicly owned enterprises and government agencies. The
equipment was distributed across most of the cantons of the Federation, on the basis of damage suffered
during the war and repayment capacity of enterprises. No inputs for the agricultural sector were directly
provided by the project. As envisaged during project negotiations, the authorities worked directly with
the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and bilateral institutions to obtain emergency seeds and
farm equipment. This effort was later complemented by IDA's Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project.
13.  There were some implementation difficulties for the transport subcomponent. First, a rock-crushing
plant became the focus of an ethnic dispute, delaying its installation. Midway through implementation, an
agreement was reached to resolve the dispute, but the enterprise that emerged from the agreement (with
contributions from two ethnically different municipalities) lacked capital for the installation. Second, the
list of equipment initially prepared by the Ministry of Transport exaggerated some of the country's needs.
Even after the list was revised, some equipment needed to be swapped among cantons. Third, loans to
construction companies for equipment purchases were made at subsidized interest rates, although the
implicit grant element was much lower than for the power sector. The size of the subsidy is difficult to
assess because of the absence of market-based reference rates. However, a comparison of the terms with
those of the on-lending under the Line of Credit suggests that the subsidization was substantial (see Table
below).2 This probably gave an undesirable advantage to incumbent publicly owned companies, thus
discouraging entry by new private firms-although entry in the immediate post-war would have been
unlikely. It also recapitalized the enterprises before their privatization to a greater degree than was
probably necessary. The beneficiary companies are all slated to participate in the Federation Privatization
Program to be supported by an Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Project (EBPAC).
On-Lending Terms of Different ERP Components
Total Term        Grace Period    Annual Interest
(years)           (years)            Rate
(percent)
Construction equipment                     8                   3              3.0%
Power equipment
IDA-financed a                            15                  5              1.5%
Grant-financed                            15                  8              1.0%
Mini-hydro                                8                   3              3.0%
Line of Credit b                         up to 2            up to 0.5       LIBOR + 4
(about 8-9%)
Note: All loans were made in Deutsche marks (although foreign exchange risk is low in Bosnia and Herzegovina
due to the strict adherence to a currency board foreign exchange management regime).
a. These onlending terms are similar to those of the Emergency Power Rehabilitation Project.
b. Includes up to 7 percent margin for the participating financial institutions.
14.  The problems experienced by this subcomponent, particularly the mismatch of equipment and
needs and the subsidization of equipment purchases by public companies, suggest that emergency
operations may overlook key sectoral issues. Subsequent IDA operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
2 The guidelines of the Line of Credit component precluded lending to the construction sector. Therefore, its on-
lending terms are used only as a benchmark for the opportunity cost of government funds.



5
notably the Emergency Transport Project, the Second Transport Project, and the EBPAC, have helped the
government address these issues.
Line of Credit
15.  The Line of Credit component, financed by IDA and the Netherlands and Italian Trust Funds,
achieved very positive results. As of September 30, 1998, US$27.9 million had been on-lent to private
small and medium enterprises, 1.5 times the allocation of US$24.3 million. This reflects a remarkable
loan recovery rate over the first 28 months of the revolving fund and the high demand for credit in Bosnia
and Herzegovina. In the process, the component generated some 4,850 jobs, at a cost of about US$8,000
per job. The credit line is channeled through most commercial banks. Publicly owned banks were
accepted after the government's commitment to implement a bank privatization program. Such a
program has since been developed and will be supported by the EBPAC. Beneficiaries are, by and large,
private small and medium-sized enterprises, as envisaged during preparation.
16.  A shortcoming of the Line of Credit component was its focus on manufacturing, which generated
complaints from a range of activities, such as tourism and wineries, which had a well-known tradition of
private enterprise.
Support for Functioning of Key Government Institutions
17.  This component achieved excellent results by using about US$36.4 million for building repairs,
office equipment and technical assistance, pilot projects, and salary supplements. While key institutions
for macroeconomic management were the main beneficiaries, most of the Federation and State levels
institutions were improved in one way or another.3 A set of tables on this component is included in
Annex 3. Subcomponents include:
18.  Repairs to Government Buildings (38 percent of the component). Civil works were initiated on
approximately 27 government buildings, using mainly Japanese funds, the IDA grant, and the
contribution from the Netherlands (Annex 3, Table 3.2). Nearly all were completed by November 30,
1998. In total, about 20,000 square meters of office space was rebuilt, and an additional 30,000 square
meters was repaired. The only unfinished building was the permanent headquarters for the Federation Tax
and Customs Administrations, for which IDA's financing was intended only as seed money to avoid
further deterioration of facilities while the Customs and Fiscal Assistance Office of the European
Commission (CAFAO) provided for the bulk of the work. Most of the repaired office space was in
Sarajevo, but some was in Mostar.4
19.  Equipment and Technical Assistance (25 percent of the component). This subcomponent helped
restore the government's ability to function and to implement the transition towards a market economy,
and was financed with funding from the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Iceland, Japan, Switzerland, and the
IDA grant. For instance, equipment provided for the Tax Administration and the assistance from USAID
3 The Central Bank and Ministry of Finance at the State level; the Customs and Tax Administrations, Banking
Supervision Agency, Ministry of Finance and privatization agencies at the Federation level; and the budget offices at
the canton level.
4 Tensions among Croats and Bosniacs have been high in the city of Mostar where the ERP was to repair
Government buildings (including the headquarters of two Federation-level Ministries), implement social sector
subprojects, and strengthen the cantonal budget office. Following a request from the Prime Minister, the Bank and
the Office of the High Representative prepared an assessment on key constraints to ERP implementation, which
pointed out to the need to have joint decisions from divided city authorities. It was agreed that working on a unified
budget for the city, including joint determination of public investment priorities, was a key step to facilitate
implementation. This approach, which required substantial technical assistance from the USAID and support from
the High Representative office, proved highly successful.



6
helped to introduce a unified taxpayer identification number. Similarly, the Customs Administration
equipment was part of a development prepared with support from CAFAO. Some institutions, such as the
Banking Supervision Agency, financed through the Swiss contribution -to the project, were setup entirely
anew. In the end, only a few advisory and training services were financed with IDA or IDA-managed
funds (mainly funds provided by Luxembourg, Switzerland and the Netherlands). These included legal
advice for debt renegotiations, which resulted in a highly beneficial deal with the London Club; the
auditing of the National Bank balance sheet; and the opening of the accounts of the new Central Bank.
For the most part, however, efforts were made to attract other donor funding so that IDA financing could
provide complementary equipment and facilities, or when needed as a stopgap measure, could cover
certain recurrent costs.
20.  Pilots and Project Preparation (23 percent of the component). Using proceeds of the IDA-
administered Netherlands grant, ERP served as a platform for the preparation and implementation of six
other projects, which were subsequently financed by IDA and other donors (see Table 3.4 in Annex 3).
Staff gained insights into problem areas from work carried out during the preparation of the Four-Year
Reconstruction Program, a joint product of the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities, the EU and the World
Bank. The ERP (with funding from the Netherlands Trust Fund) mobilized resources quickly for the
provision of sufficient and timely technical support for pilot projects.
21.  Salary Supplements (14 percent of the component). About US$4.7 million was spent on this
subcomponent, mainly financed by the Netherlands Trust Fund. This funding was successful in creating a
unified interethnic wage structure in the newly created state and Federation administrations. It helped
restart government activities, particularly in Bosniac-majority areas (where staff salaries had not been
paid for months) and in attracting Croat nationals to the Federation and state Governments. This
subcomponent, however, did not attempt deeper civil service reform and, in this regard, it missed the
opportunity to restructure a distorted and highly compressed government salary scale. This was
particularly the case at the highest levels of the professional spectrum where competition for skills is
strong between a government administration with many old and new positions to fill, a resourceful private
sector, and the substantial personnel needs of international organizations active in the country.
Emergency Social Fund
22.  This component used US$28 million, less than was originally planned (as discussed in paragraph
37 below) affecting mainly the cash benefit subcomponent. Generally speaking, the cash benefit program
achieved partial success (57 percent of the component), while the other subcomponents achieved
excellent success. These included the rehabilitation, training and employment for the disabled (23 percent
of the component), the foster parents program (7 percent of the component), the rehabilitation of
children's facilities (7 percent of the component) and the institutional support to the Federation Ministry
of Social Affairs, Displaced Persons and Refugees (FMSA; 9 percent of the component). Financing for
this component required substantial donor coordination. IDA resources focused exclusively on technical
assistance for overall implementation and on the programs for orphans and the disabled (Table below).
23.  Cash benefits. Grants to the poorest households were provided on the basis of income and wealth
as reported to the Municipal Welfare Offices of the Federation (MWO). This contrasts sharply with the
prewar methods of categorical targeting, which had proven ineffective in reaching the poor. The grants
were entirely financed by Dutch, Italian, Canadian, and Swedish contributions to the ERP, but IDA
supported their implementation by providing equipment and technical assistance to the MWO. Assessing
the overall success of this subcomponent is difficult because there are so many dimensions to consider,
some indicating success, other not.



7
Emergency Social Fund: Actual Costs and Financing Sources by Subcomponent
(Millions of US dollars)
Subcomponent                      Costs                     Source of Financing
Amount   Percent  IDA Grant Canada  Italy  Sweden Netherlands
Total                         28.0      100       10.0     3.7    3.3      1.1     10.0
Cash benefits to the poor  15.9      57         -      3.2    2.5      0.2      10.0
Institutional support      2.5        9        2.5      -       -       -        -
Orphans programs            -        11        2.3      -       -       -
Foster parents program    2.0        7        1.2      -      0.2     0.6
Children care institutions  1.1      4        1.1      -       -       -
Disabled program            -        24        5.3      -       -       -        -
Mobility aids and other aids    1.8  6        1.6     0.1    0.1      0.1       -
Rehabilitation            2.1        7        1.8     0.1    0.1      0.1       -
Employment and training   2.7       10        1.9     0.3    0.4      0.1       -
24.  In terms of accuracy of targeting, this subcomponent was successful relative to similar programs
elsewhere and taking into account institutional constraints during implementation. The independent
impact study carried out by CIET International shows that beneficiaries were much less likely to receive
wages and to live in permanent housing (8 percent of sample households) than nonbeneficiaries (37%).
Beneficiaries were also less likely than nonbeneficiaries to receive remittances and twice as likely to have
a disabled person in the household. About 66 percent of resources went to families with incomes of less
than 100 DM per month, and about 28 percent went to families with monthly incomes of 100 to 200 DM.
Some mistargeting was unavoidable; about 6.3 percent of cash benefits were paid to individuals with
incomes greater than 200 DEM, and about one-third of people reporting no income did not receive a cash
benefit.
25.   This subcomponent was also relatively successful in terms offinancial management. A randomly
selected sample drawn from the MWO lists traced recipients and successfully confirmed participation
rates of 90 percent or higher in 8 of the 10 cantons. (Exceptions were the Una Sana and Neretva cantons,
where the confirmed participation rate was only about 50 percent.) This positive result was due to three
factors. The continuous presence of the FMSA internal auditors allowed them to find a number of
reporting errors and one incident of diversion of funds (which was rapidly addressed). The FMSA did not
relax financial controls during the first few payments that had to be processed manually, even though this
increased the time required to process payments. And the Payments Bureau, which had been unified
under the TAC, maintained tight control over the treasury accounts of the municipalities.
26.   The subcomponent contributed successfully to the ongoing processes of building civil society,
clarifying the role of government, and providing a mechanism for dialogue across communities
previously at war with each other. The cash benefit promoted collaboration among the authorities in
divided municipalities (such as Gomi-Vakuf, Vitez, Kresevo) and mixed cantons, helped the Federation
government establish an early and meaningful presence at local levels and take the lead in other key
social protection programs. It generated in particular substantial local-level response from NGOs and
communities which often helped municipal authorities identify the needy and helped vulnerable
individuals fill out applications and other required paperwork. Moreover, the list of program beneficiaries
(developed by the MWOs and refined quarterly based on new applications) became an obligatory stop for
humanitarian organizations, which would use them for targeting complementary aid (medicines, food aid,
and so on). This mechanism became an additional check and balance instrument at local levels.
27.   However, on purely institutional grounds-such as the time to process payments or the degree to
which poor households and the payment offices could predict the availability of funds-the
subcomponent was not as successful as expected. Due to the urgency of assistance delivery, the 80 or so



8
MWOs began implementation before they were properly equipped. The MWOs operating budgets were
(and continue to be) inadequate, although this was somewhat compensated for by recruiting volunteers
and seeking NGO support. The definition of eligible beneficiaries, which had seemed unnecessarily
restrictive during project design, resulted in a much larger number of applications than expected during
the first few months -especially once funds began to flow. Finally, program funds were not always
readily available in the MWO accounts.5
28.  The institutional constraints faced by this subcomponent, and the increasing demands on a
constrained budget for funds for pensions, health care, and veterans benefits, forced the Federation
government to move the financing responsibility of this program down to the local level. This move
substantially reduced the scope of the program and created significant disparities across cantons. Further
work on a Federation framework for financing social assistance was supported by IDA's TAC and has
subsequently developed under follow-up IDA operations, notably the First and Second Public Finance
Structural Adjustment Credits.
29.  Demand for the cash benefit program fell over time. According to the household data collected to
evaluate this program, unemployment in the Federation fell to 32 percent of the labor force by early 1997
(from at least twice as large in the immediate post-war). In the meantime, however, average wages in the
Federation had recovered substantially by early 1997, when they averaged 381 DM per month-
substantially higher than the 205 DM per month average of Republika Srpska. There is, however, a large
dispersion of wages around this averages and some were not paid. The Sarajevo-based pension fund, the
largest pension fund in Bosnia and Herzegovina, also began to pay pensions under a program suppQrted
by IDA's TAC and the Netherland's government. IDA's First Public Finance Program supported pension
reform to stop accumulation of pension arrears, ensure the timely payments of current benefits, and
introduce a base pension to protect the elderly from falling into extreme poverty.
30.  Rehabilitation and Training for People with Disabilities. The activities supported by this
subcomponent were generally successful. About 1,300 disabled individuals were retrained or employed,
and a similar number received mobility aids, hearing-aids, or physical rehabilitation. However, the
government now faces the challenge of providing health care services for chronically disabled people6
Subsequent health and public finance projects financed by IDA have initiated a wide range of policy
reforms that will address this particular problem, among others.
31.  Foster Parents Program. This program alleviated pressure on orphanages by providing 92 DM a
month for two years (until July 1998) to families hosting orphans. About 2,867 orphans benefited from
this program. According to an independent evaluation made by Bethany Services7, the program had a
significant impact while payments were being made and have positively influenced longer-term foster
parents benefits programs. There were no apparent problems with targeting and identifying beneficiaries.
32.  The greatest problem with the program was irregular and late payments, which was reportedly due
to other reasons outside the program control (see footnote 5). The program could have been improved by
greater emphasis on monitoring foster care placements and by strengthening MWO staffing as well as
5 The Bank and the Netherlands govermment approved a sufficiently large special account to avoid liquidity
problems. However, even if money was available to the National Bank, its correspondent banks and the Payments
Bureau (the state monopoly that controls all the payments in Bosnia and Herzegovina) could not ensure the
conversion of dollars to Deutsche Marks. As a result, crediting of municipal accounts took several weeks once a
payment order was given by the PCU.
The component focused almost exclusively on disabled civilians such as the blind, the hearing-impaired, or the
dystrophic-all of whom are often marginalized in postwar situations relative to, say, disabled veterans.
7 See Bethany Social Services International. Evaluation study of the Foster Care Benefits prograrn Financed by the
World Bank and protection of Children without Parents Care in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
February, 1999.



9
equipment. All in all, the average foster care placement has been good and has provided well for the
emotional, educational, developmental, and physical needs of the foster children-although ongoing
financial and social service support is clearly necessary.
33.  The remaining challenge is for the cantonal authorities to sustain the foster parents program. So far
the more affluent cantons have provided continuing benefits, but the poorer ones have not. While the
overall situation has improved somewhat in the past two years, mainly because of the improved economic
situation of the foster families, there remains a need to establish a support system throughout the nation.
Efforts are underway to establish a Federation-wide system of social protection, with support fromIDA's
Second Public Finance Project.
34.  Rehabilitation of the Facilities Providing Care for Needy Children. This subcomponent was
very successful and timely, but finding stable sources of financing to keep these facilities running remains
problematic. The project's inclusion of both the rehabilitation of facilities component and a program for
foster parents indicates that a comprehensive approach was taken in caring for orphans. The project
focused on both institutional and noninstitutional solutions, facilitating a transition from institutional care
to household-based care whenever possible.
35.  Three years after the end of hostilities, it appears that the Emergency Social Fund was overly
optimistic about growth of institutional capacity and the pace of economic recovery as they affected
spending capacity of the government. Moreover, the disparity in services across municipalities and
cantons need to be addressed. Services need to be rationalized through more comprehensive and
centralized social policy and Federation-level funding. As mentioned above, these key issues of public
finance as well as financing of the social sector in the Federation are at the center of the current IDA
assistance strategy for public finance reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
C.    IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
36.  The ERP was approved by the Board on February 29, 1996 and made effective March 19, 1996.
This was done in record time-the Bankwide average for regular IDA projects is 90 days. Only the
Italian contribution, followed closely by the IDA credit, were closed on or near the originally scheduled
date of December 31, 1997. Most other trust funds closed on June 30, 1998 and two closed on December
31, J 998-a delay that permitted completion of several small but important subprojects (Table 3).
37.  Expenditures. Cost for the four components were estimated at US$160 million. However,
expenditures were US$30 million less than expected, mainly because of lower spending on the cash
benefit program under the Emergency Social Fund component. The Federation government, with IDA's
concurrence, reduced the scope of the cash benefit program from 12 payments to 5 payments-due to the
institutional constraints mentioned above, the 5 payments were made quarterly rather than monthly. New
donor support and the growing fiscal revenues of the Federation were redirected toward essential health
and pension programs. The government's decision was motivated by the complexity of the
implementation arrangements relative to the weak institutional capacity, and the overlap of the cash
benefit with pensions and veterans benefits.
38.  The US$130 million available for the project was implemented through the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU; US$111 million) and direct donor channels (US$19 million). The PCU-managed funds
included an IDA credit (US$30 million), an IDA grant (US$15 million), cofinancing from a variety of
donors (about US$65 million), and bilateral technical assistance to the PCU (US$1.5 million) in the
essential areas of procurement (British Know-How Fund) and the credit line management (German GTZ),



10
(see Figure below).8 Donor funding implemented outside the PCU covered activities such as agricultural
inputs, advisory services for key government institutions, and credit lines for various productive purposes.
General Financing for ERP
Bilateral (GTZ, Know-
tal social fund Canada Sweden how)
Italy line o cr de 0%  3.3%  1.0%  1.3%
JapanI4I7I                                              Netherlands
8.1%     __               ll_32.0%
Multicountry (Swiss,
Luxembourg, Iceland)
6.1%
13.5%
IDA Credit
27.0%
39.  The Emergency Social Fund received only 52 percent of its initially intended amount. The Line of
Credit component received 81 percent of envisaged funds, after it was agreed that US$2 million would be
reallocated for a housing pilot (followed later by a housing project). This reallocation was motivated by
the rising number of parallel lines of credit that followed the startup of the ERP, such as those financed by
USAID and the Kuwait Fund. In addition, pressed by rampant unemployment and the need to reintegrate
demobilized soldiers in the labor market, the Federation government launched a budgetary line of credit
that followed principles very similar to those of the ERP. The Critical Imports component received 53
percent of the amount originally planned; this shortfall was related to the purchase of agricultural inputs
financed outside the PCU by other bilaterals.
40.  As a result of the availability of parallel financing for activities envisaged under the above three
components, greater emphasis was placed on the Support for Functioning of Key Government Institutions
component. Nearly US$8 million was expended to support the pilot projects referred to in paragraph 20
above, including the housing pilot. The effort was highly leveraged and resulted in the approval of six
new projects in FY 97, with a total value of around US$457 million. This component received 33 percent
of the final credit allocation, more than the 23 percent share originally planned. It also benefited from
parallel financing by the European Union and other donors. Moreover, the rise in value of the U.S. dollar
relative to the Deutsche mark (the currency to which the Bosnia Dinar and the new Convertible Marka are
peg) significantly increased the volume of all activities, particularly the number of buildings that could be
repaired, the amount of assistance that could be provided to the Federation Banking Agency, and the
number of projects for orphans and disabled people that could be undertaken.
41.  As illustrated in the table below, the IDA credit was used exclusively under the Line of Credit and
the Critical Imports components. One-third of the IDA grant was used for the Support for Functioning of
See Table I of Annex 3 for a breakdown of expenditures by component and donor; see Annex 4 for details on each
donor's funding.



I1
Key Government Institutions component-mainly in providing equipment and in building repairs. The
remaining two-thirds supported the implementation of the Social Fund.
ERP Planned And Actual Expenditures
(millions of US dollars and percent)
Component                  Planned Expenditure       IActual   Expenditurea               Actualto
Amount         Share       Amount          Share           Planned (%)
IDA and IDA-managed Resources
Critical Imports            43.0            27          22.6           20                       53
Lines of Credit              30.0           19          24.3            22                      81
Key Govermment Institutions
and Pilots b                33.0            20          36.4           33                      110
Social Fund                 54.0            34          28.0           25                       52
Total                       160.0           100        111.3           100                      70
IDA Credit Resources
Critical Imports             15.0           50          14.5           48                       97
Lines of Credit              15.0           50          15.5            52                     103
Total                       30.0            100      | 30.0            100                     100
IDA Grant Resources
Key Government Institutions    5.0          33          5.0            33                      100
Social Fund c                10.0           67         10.0            67                      100
Total                        15.0           100        15.0            100                     100
Source: Project files and Annex 3 Information prepared by PCU for the ICR.
aActual expenditures include expenditures implemented by PCU and $1.5 million of bilateral Technical Assistance to the PCU
from GTZ and Know-How.
b Pilots were funded from the Netherlands grant.
c See paragraph 23.
42.  Disbursement. As shown in the table below, the ERP initially disbursed somewhat more slowly
than planned because it took more time than planned to establish functioning project implementation
structures (particularly for the Credit Line and Social Fund), to identify eligible beneficiaries and their
needs, and to prepare the necessary tender documents. The inability of the National Bank of Bosnia and
Herzegovina (formerly the Central Bank) to process letters of credit, maintain adequate liquidity for
payments, and carry out other simple financial transactions also contributed substantially to
implementation delays. In 1998, all nine special accounts under the project were transferred from the
National Bank to an international commercial bank.
ERP Disbursement Profile: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(millions of U.S. dollars)
FY96   FY97    FY97    FY98    FY98    FY99
(Q4)    (Ql/2)   (Q3/4)   (Q1/2)   (Q3/4)   (Q1/2)
Appraisal estimate            43.0    112.0    147.0    156.0    160.0    160.0
Actual total                  19.3     68.9      93.6    103.2    109.6    109.8a
Actual total as a percentage of
appraisal estimate            44.9     61.5      63.7     66.2      68.5      68.6
Date of final disbursement                                                9/10/98
Source: Table 4 in Statistical Annex.
a Excludes the support to the PCU provided by Know-How Fund and GTZ (US$ 1.5 million)



12
43.  Management. A key reason for the ERP's success was strong leadership at the most senior level
of the PCU and well-functioning departments with relatively few dedicated and technically competent
staff. Notwithstanding substantial time pressure, numerous concurrent demands for equipment and
resources, and a complex political situation, the PCU exercised effective control over the ERP's various
components and subprojects. It accomplished this task with the support of well-targeted and effective
technical assistance, particularly in the areas of procurement and credit appraisal. In late- 1997 IDA agreed
to transfer the PCU from the State Ministry of Trade to the Federation Ministry of Finance. This transfer
took a few months to complete because of the need for fresh agreements among all concerned parties (the
state as borrower, the Federation as the main beneficiary, and IDA) on project implementation procedures
that would guarantee the integrity of the project-particularly the line of credit-in the complex and
evolving context of the establishment of the political institutions called for under the Dayton-Paris Peace
Agreement. IDA did not, however, agree to transfer management of the Emergency Social Fund
component to the FMSA, which would have fragmented project management and financial control of the
project.
44.  The work of the PCU was significantly bolstered by the effective backstopping of the Resident
Mission, as well as by intensive project supervision from headquarters. Fifty-three staff-weeks were
devoted to supervision during the 2.5 years of project execution (Table 10). ERP supervision included
much of the preparation of the six pilot projects (referred to in paragraph 20) and part of the preparation
of the first-year Reconstruction Program from which the pilots were derived. At the same time, key
components such as the critical imports and the Social Fund components benefited from the supervision
resources of other projects (such as the Emergency Transport Project).
45.  The ERP also benefited from an extensive program of monitoring and evaluation that increased
feedback and accountability and helped to implement corrective measures on time. Project financial
records were regularly audited by internationally recruited auditors (Coopers & Lybrand and Deloitte &
Touche), and each component received independent evaluations. Credit Lines were evaluated by GTZ,
cash benefits program were evaluated by CIET International, employment and rehabilitation programs
were evaluated by Suma-project Bosnian and Herzegovina and the Institute of Health of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, and foster parents programs were evaluated by Bethany services and so on. Procurement
under the project was carried out through an independent procurement firm and supervised by the Know-
How Fund sponsored experts. Procurement was audited by the Procurement Monitoring and Auditing
Unit of the Institute of Accounting and Auditing of Bosnia and Herzegovina, an institution created with
the support of both IDA and the Netherlands.
46.  Work under the ERP was reinforced by a strong technical assistance component, including training
and advisory services from agencies such as the European Union, GTZ, Know-How Fund, and the U.S.
government. This assistance was concentrated in the Central Bank, the state and Federation Ministries of
Finance, the Bank Supervision Agency, the Customs Administration, the Tax Administration, cantonal
budgetary institutions, and the Federation Privatization Agency. Technical assistance substantially
bolstered these agencies ability to produce the development and modernization plans supported by the
project.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
47.  Factors Subject to Government Control. As indicated earlier, the ERP was implemented in a
difficult political environment in an ethically charged country with a very fragmented governmental
structure. The two separate governments (state and the Federation), communicated poorly and often had
competing interests. Achieving cooperation and coordination between the major ethnic groups was
extremely difficult. Nearly every resource allocation decision made in the ERP was viewed by one or the
other group as biased against them, which often delayed progress. In some local jurisdictions, such as
Mostar, it was difficult to locate the responsible authorities and to obtain their commitment or



13
participation.  (For this reason, the planned repair of government buildings in Mostar was not
implemented until the end of the project period.)
48.  Factors Not Subject to Government Control. Several cofinanciers choose not to use the PCU as
the main implementing agency, which made it difficult to implement certain activities where close
collaboration was needed (such as in reconstruction of government buildings). On the other hand, the
30.5 percent rise in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Deutsche mark significantly reduced the
financing gap estimated at appraisal.
D. SUSTAINABILITY
49.  In emergency operations, reconstruction speed is often deliberately emphasized over medium-term
sustainability. In the ERP the IDA resolved this dilemma by implementing parallel operations that
focused more explicitly on issues of sustainability. However, considering each ERP component on in its
own merits, prospects for long-run sustainability vary from one component to an other, as indicated
below.
50.  Critical Imports. Sustainability of this component depends on progress in the power and transport
sectors. The ERP helped restart power supplies, but cost-reflective pricing policies, improved
management (with private sector participation when appropriate), and programs for ensuring access and
affordability to the poor all remain as issues to be tackled through ongoing policy dialogue underIDA's
Second Power Project. The ability of the Federation government to both privatize construction assets and
introduce a system for outsourcing public works (road construction and maintenance) to private
contractors will crucially affect the sustainability of the construction equipment. Progress has also been
made on all these fronts, although these institutional changes require time. In purely financial terms, the
funds provided by the ERP have been paid back by the beneficiaries on time. The re-flows from these
credits are redirected to the Line of Credit component, to be lent again through the participating financial
institutions, to small and medium-size enterprises in all sectors.
51.  Enterprise Credit Lines. During the final phase of project implementation, the post-project
management was discussed extensively, with the goal of limiting public intervention in credit markets. As
a result of these discussions, the Federation government agreed to include the line of credit in the overall
program of bank privatization, to be supported by the.EBPAC. In the meantime, the new Federation PCU
management will continue to be independent of the government and will maintain the advisory services of
GTZ (which it has provided from the beginning of the Line of Credit), while implementing a plan to both
strengthen management information system and increase the transparency and predictability of the
process of reviewing and approving credits.
52.  Support for Functioning of Key Government Institutions. The goal of this component was to
reestablish at least a minimal level of institutional capacity for critical government functions and to help
with the modernization of certain key government institutions that needed to be reoriented to the
functions required for a market economy. The ERP has been successful in these two respects. Necessary
goods and services have been provided and the governmental units are functioning effectively. There is
every expectation that this trend will continue-especially in light of the recent progress in streamlining
budgets and providing appropriate funding for government institutions and functions supported under
IDA's First Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit.
53.  Emergency Social Fund. Most subcomponents (rehabilitation and training of the disabled, the
foster parents program, children's institutes, reconstruction of social assistance agencies) are likely to be
sustained as the economy continues to expand and government budgetary systems are gradually reformed
and modernized. However, the sustainability of the largest subcomponent, cash benefits, is uncertain as
long as the government has not addressed the issue of social sector investment and funding. Cash



14
benefits have not continued due to the lack of a functioning and viable social protection system.
Subsequent IDA operations, most notably the second Public Finance Structural Adjustment Project, are
helping the government address these issues.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
54.  Overall IDA's performance was highly satisfactory, despite the very difficult circumstances under
which the project was implemented.  Achievement of consensus was difficult because of ethnic
animosities and redundant and overlapping political structures. In this environment, the IDA team
identified and appraised the ERP very rapidly (about three months from the identification mission to
Board presentation), effectively coordinated about a dozen cofinanciers (as well as other donors), and
substantially achieved the project goals. Supervision was exceptionally intensive, and IDA remained
attentive to the many numerous implementation challenges of this multisectoral project.  Some
shortcomings, such as the problems experienced in the transport Critical Imports subcomponent, were
unavoidable. The IDA team was regarded by the borrower as highly competent and responsive, and the
technical assistance provided was considered extremely effective.
55.  The project design was appropriate to the situation of BH. The establishment of a strong PCU
from the operation's inception, the project's clear mandate and objectives and the creation of institution of
independent monitoring, evaluation, and auditing systems made it possible to execute this complex
operation in a satisfactory manner and without undue delays. Moreover, the decision to complement the
Support for Function of Key Government Institutions component and the Line of Credit component with
a series of policy-based operations (the TAC, the Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credits, the
Enterprise and Bank Privatization Structural Adjustment Credit) benefited both the implementation of the
ERP and policy lending. The problems faced in the execution of the Social Fund component were due to
broad institutional issues generally difficult to address at the start of an emergency reconstruction
operation. In hindsight, some of the expenditures under this component, such as cash benefits, might
better have been treated as emergency relief rather than emergency rehabilitation actions.
56.  Financial Audit. An audit for 1996, conducted by Coopers & Lybrand, noted minor procedural
deficiencies. Following the auditors' management report, the PCU took necessary corrective measures.
Coopers & Lybrand provided additional technical assistance that helped the PCU improve its procedures
to track and record financial transactions, making them more systematic. The 1997 audit byDeloitte &
Touche found no material errors. The final project audit is to be completed in July 1999.
57.  Procurement Audit. The PCU and Project Implementation Units (PIUs) were subject to audit by
the government and by the Procurement Monitoring and Auditing Unit (PMAU), both of which found
that, except for minor procedural oversights, PCU procurement was free of material errors and in
accordance with IDA guidelines.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
58.  Borrower performance was satisfactory in all aspects of physical implementation (such as building
reconstruction). However, because of ethnic distrust and the complex political structure of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, it was sometimes difficult to achieve consensus, which sometimes impeded ERP progress
(for example, in funding reconstruction of buildings in Mostar or in using the rock crushing plant).
Finally, as noted above, a key reason for the ERP's success was the strong and well-functioning PCU,
which exercised effective control over the various components and subcomponents.
9 For certain pilot projects, such as housing, the PCU served a coordinating function and individual PIUs
implemented the projects.



15
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
59.  The ERP's overall outcome is satisfactory. While there were differences among and within
components (Table below), overall achievement of objectives was substantial, and most components are
likely to be sustained.
Component                  Achievement of Objectives     Sustainability
Critical Imports           Positive results              Likely
Enterprise Credit Lines    Very positive results         Likely
Support for Functioning of Key    Very positive results  Likely
Government Institutions
Emergency Social Fund      Mixed                         Uncertain
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
60.  The ERP was prepared and implemented on an emergency basis to rapidly accomplish four
objectives (see paragraph 6). The ERP was also designed to provide a foundation for longer-term
assistance.
61.  All of the follow-up operations envisaged at the ERP's inception, including the 6 pilots, have been
completed or are nearing completion (Table 2). In addition, as noted above, loans provided under the
Critical Imports and Enterprise Credit Lines components are revolving lines of credit providing support
for private activities that makes it possible to expand lending of initial funding to productive investments
beyond the original scope of the project. An operation similar to the ERP, the Reconstruction Assistance
Credit, was prepared for Republika Srpska and approved by the Board in 1998.
62.  Despite the important support for banking and budget management included in the Support for
Functioning of Key Government Institutions component, there remains a formidable agenda to further
strengthen key govermnent agencies to enable them to operate efficiently in a market economy. In
addition to the TAC, recent follow-up adjustment operations in public finance (one approved in May
1998, the other in June 1999) have significantly advanced the reform agenda in this area. As for the
Emergency Social Fund component, policies to promote and establish social protection systems consistent
with the exigencies of market economy and modem budgets will be supported by IDA adjustment
operations as well.
I.   LESSONS LEARNED
63.  A number of lessons learned from implementation of this emergency project can apply to regular
operations--particularly the lessons concerning project organization and management, monitoring and
audit, borrower's project ownership, and flexibility of procedures in project execution. The main lessons
learned are as follows.
64.  Although long-term sustainability is not the prime concern in the design of emergency
projects, developing a parallel reform program can lay the groundwork for long-term sustainability
of government investments beyond the reconstruction. Without the additional adjustment and
investment operations that helped improve the sustainability of the reconstruction investments, the ERP
would not have been able to initiate and move forward needed fiscal reforms and start the necessary
transition to a market economy.
65.  IDA can effectively leverage its activities by pursuing pilot operations and by paying early
and consistent attention to cofinancing possibilities. In addition, close and continuous donor
coordination during implementation-such as that carried out for the Support for Functioning of Key



16
Government Institutions and the Social Fund components-is crucial to the success of both other donors'
technical assistance and IDA's developmental objectives.'"
66.  An adequate amount of well-targeted, high-quality technical assistance is key to realize
emergency project objectives. Examples of critical technical assistance in the ERP included needed
assistance to the Line of Credit component and to the Bank Supervision Agency, and help with the
auditing of the National Bank (which was to be closed before the opening of the new BH Central Bank),
and the preparation of an opening balance for the Central Bank.
67.  A flexible approach can yield substantial benefits for the Borrower and the IDA. The ERP
was implemented under streamlined procedures and in a very flexible manner, to best meet project
emergency objectives and the needs of the institutions of BH. Because the project scope was sufficiently
broad and the list of goods to be procured was generic, it was possible for the IDA to redirect funds
within the overall framework of the Grant or Credit Agreements, to the components best able to achieve
recovery objectives most quickly and efficiently. For example, ERP served as a platform from which six
pilot projects were launched, ERP resources were used in the rapid identification and implementation of
these follow-up efforts. In pursuance of the need to promote accountability and fiduciary responsibility
under the IDA-financed reconstruction program, the ERP provided the resources needed to recruit
independent auditors for the entire portfolio financed or administered by the IDA in Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
68.  Establishment of Monitoring and Auditing Agencies and Systems Increases Project
Effectiveness and Accountability. A key reason for the project's success was an extensive program of
monitoring and evaluation that used continuous feedback increase effectiveness and accountability.
Project financial records were regularly audited by independent auditors. Procurement was monitored
and audited on a yearly basis by the PMAU. Each component was evaluated by an independent
organization to assess its viability and impact (for example, Credit Lines were evaluated by GTZ and the
cash benefit program was evaluated by CIET International).
69.  At the outset of the project, the project executing agency (in this case the PCU) should be
established and it director should be appointed and involved in project design and negotiations.
Early and close involvement of the authorities in project design and execution promoted a sense of
ownership and commitment that resulted in extremely rapid processing of the grants and the credit.
Emergency projects require a project director who is both professionally competent and of sufficient
political stature to cut through bureaucratic red tape and withstand the interference created by postwar
shortages and partisan pressures. The PCU Director for the ERP is a highly qualified professional, and,
as a former minister in the government that negotiated the Dayton Agreement, was able to ensure that
project execution stayed the course despite numerous demands and pressures. Clear terms of reference
and active donor support also helped in this regard.
70.          IDA  backstopping on the ground and intensive project supervision are
essential for effective execution of emergency projects. Intensive supervision constitutes an
added guarantee of sound implementation under the flexible approach described above. The ERP
benefited from more than 50 staff-weeks of supervision, additional supervision supported
through Trust Funds, and the monitoring activities in each project component. Considering the
many beneficial outcomes of this project, this supervision intensity was worthwhile.
10 The project worked with the Task Forces on Governance and Social Protection to coordinate donor support. The
project also helped organize a seminar on postwar social protection challenges, jointly chaired by the Federation and
Republika Sprska govermments, and sponsored by CARE Canada, the European Community, the International
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies and the World Bank. See "Social Policy, Protection and
Practice: The Care of Vulnerable Groups in Bosnia-Herzegovina: Papers and Proceedings," Sarajevo, 1998



17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial     Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                           V
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives            V
Institutional Development
Physical Objectives             V
Poverty Reduction               $
Gender Issues                                                             V
Other Social Objectives                            /
Environmental Objectives                                                  V
Public Sector Management        /
Private Sector Development      V
B. Project Sustainability       Likely                 Unlikely              Uncertain
C. Bank Performance            Satisfactory          Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification
Preparation Assistance                              V
Appraisal                 I
Supervision               |
D. Borrower Performance        Satisfactory          Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                                         V
Implementation                                      V
Covenant Compliance                                 V
Operation (if applicable)                           V
HighlyHi
E. Assessment of Outcome       satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
V:



18
Table 2: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS a'
(As of May 24, 1999)
US$ Million
Loan       Fiscal                                                                     (Less Cancellations)
No.         Year        Borrower                     Project                           Loan Undisbursed
Loans/Credits/Grants
IBRD b/
4038-BOS   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan A                        28.6      0.0
4039-BOS   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan B                      284.9       0.0
4040-BOS   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan C                      307.1       0.0
Total                          620.6       0.0
Of Which: Repaid                24.9
Total Now Held by the Bank:    595.7
TFBHd (Under Disbursement)
TF-024030   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Recovery Credit                 45.0       0.0
TF-024031  1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Farm Reconstruction              20.0       0.0
TF-024032   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Water Supply                     20.0      0.0
TF-024033   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Transport                        35.0      1.8
TF-024034   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency District Heating                 20.0      0.0
TF-024035   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation        5.0      0.0
TF-024040   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Education Reconstruction          5.0      0.0
Total                          150.0       1.8
IDA
2897-BOS   1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Education Reconstruction            5.0      0.0
2896-BOS    1996    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation        5.0      2.6
2902-BOS   1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Housing Repair                    15.0      0.0
2903-BOS    1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Power Reconstruction             35.6      0.2
2904-BOS   1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Public Works and Employment    10.0         0.8
2905-BOS    1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Landmines Clearance               7.5      0.0
2906-BOS   1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration    7.5     0.5
2914-BOS    1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transition Assistance Credit               90.0      0.0
NOOI-BOS   1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Industry Re-Start Guarantee       10.0      0.0
N002-BOS   1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Microenterprise/Local Initiatives    7.0    0.4
N003-BOS   1997    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Essential Hospital Services                 15.0      3.7
N032-BOS   1998    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transport Reconstruction II                 39.0      6.7
N035-BOS   1998    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Education Reconstruction II                 11.0      2.7
3028-BOS   1998    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Reconstruction Assistance Project           17.0      4.8
3029-BOS   1998    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Natural Gas                       10.0      0.4
3070-BOS   1998    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Pilot Credit (RS)                  5.0      2.7
3071-BOS   1998    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Power II                                    25.0     25.0
N040-BOS   1998    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Forestry                                     7.0       6.2
3090-BOS   1998    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Public Finance I (Structural Adjustment)    63.0      0.0
3191-BOS   1999    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Local Development                           15.0     15.0
3020-BOS   1999    Bosnia and Herzegovina    Basic Health                                10.0     10.0
Total                          409.6      81.7
a/ The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 3 1.
bi Consolidation Loans A, B, and C were approved on June 13, 1996 and became effective on June 14, 1996.
Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina.



19
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1999)
Gross Commitments
US$ Million
Fiscal
Year   Obligor                           Type of Business                        Loan  Equity  Total
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin    Timber, Pulp and Paper              3.65   0.00   3.65
1985   Sour Energoinvest                 Industrial Equipment and Machinery     8.53   0.00   8.53
1997   Horizonte BiH Enterprise Fund     SME Investment                         0.00    1.93    1.93
1997   Microenterprise Bank              Microcredit                            0.00   0.57   0.57
1997   Sarajevska Pivara                 Beverage Manufacturing                 3.89   0.00   3.89
1998   SEF Akova                         Abbatoir, Meat Packing and Processing  2.08   0.00   2.08
1998   Wood Agency Credit Line           Furniture and Other Wood Products     13.69   0.00  13.69
1998   SEF Lignosper                     Furniture Manufacturing                2.27   0.00   2.27
1999   SEF Kopex                         Industrial and Consumer Services       2.46   0.00   2.46
Total Gross Investments                                    36.57   2.50  36.57
Participations, Cancellations, Terminations, Exchange Adjustments,
Repayments, and Arrears (Principal Only)                   13.01   0.00   13.01
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                          36.57   2.50  36.57
Total Undisbursed                                          14.20    1.54  14.20
Total Outstanding                                          22.37   0.96  22.37



20
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned             Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)       December 1995            December 1995
Preparation                                  Dec. 1995/Jan. 1996      Dec. 1995/Jan. 1996
Appraisal / Negotiations                      January 22-26, 1996        January 22, 1996
Board Presentation                              February 8, 1996        February 29, 1996
Effectiveness                                     March 3, 1996           March 19, 1996
Project Completion                            December 31, 1997       December 31, 1998a
a Most trust funds were closed in June 30, 1998, except for the Swedish and Italian financing the social fund.
Table 4: Credit/Grants Disbursements-Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY96   FY97    FY97   FY98    FY98    FY99
(Q4)   (Q1/2)  (Q3/4)  (Q1/2)  (Q3/4)  (Q1/2)
Appraisal estimate: Amount  43.0   112.0   147.0   156.0   160.0   160.0
%   27.0    70.0    92.0    98.0   100.0   100.0
Actual:          Amount  19.3    68.9    93.6   103.2   109.6   109.8a
%   18.0    63.0    85.0    94.0   100.0   100.0
Of which   2.0      7.7     11.7    13.8    15.0    15.0
IDA Grant                   5.3    23.5    28.8    29.8    30.0    30.0
IDA Credit                 10.0    31.2    33.5    34.6    35.6    35.6
Netherlands                 0.0      1.0      4.4     5.3      6.8      6.8
Multi-countryb              0.0      1.8     3.0      3.4      3.7     3.7
Canada                      2.0      3.6     6.3      8.0      9.0     9.0
Japan                       0.0      0.0     3.2      4.6      5.3     5.3
Italy Lines of Credit       0.0      0.0     2.2      2.8      3.2     3.3
Italy Social Fund           0.0      0.0     0.5      0.9      1.0      1.0
Sweden
Actual as % of appraisal
estimate                   44.88   61.52    63.67    66.15    68.50    68.62
Date of final disbursement                                           9/10/98
aDoes not include US$ 1.5 million of bilateral TA to the PCU from GTZ and Know-How Fund.
bIncludes contribution from Switzerland, Luxembourg and Iceland.



21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators                                                        Status
(i) Emergency provision of income support to about 150,000 poorest  Income support provided to some 530,000 people
households across the entire Federation (or about 500,000 persons), and  (but only five payments instead of
about 1,000 orphans and the war-injured in Sarajevo, Mostar, Tuzla and  twelve). Around 2,900 orphans were
Gorazde.                                                                provided income support over a two-
years period in the whole territory of the
Federation.
(ii) Timely assistance for building institutional capacity and support for the   Objectives satisfactorily attained.
functioning of key Government institutions:
- Provide emergency assistance to support the reunification or creation of the
State Ministry of Trade and Economic Relations (previously Ministry of
Finance), State Central Bank, Federation Ministry of Finance, Federation
Tax and Customs Administrations, Federation Banking Supervision Agency
and Federation Privatization Agencies;
- Provide support of up to US$ 5.0 million for incremental recurrent cost  Salary supplement provided as planned.
(salary supplement) of the central government during the initial post war  Successful in reducing salary differentials
period. An average monthly gross wage of DM800 per employee for the     within civil service, but did not structure
Federation government and an average monthly wage of DM1000 per         salary scales to improve competition and
employee for the State government are considerate reasonable.           retain qualified personnel.
- Rehabilitate working space for at least 2-3000 Federation and State  Objectives satisfactorily attained.
Government employees in Sarajevo and Mostar.
(iii) Timely support to private sector recovery and development:  Objectives satisfactorily attained.
- Timely commitment of funds for power and transport through suppliers
contracts;
- Timely commitment of funds to provide working capital to about 150 small  Loans provided to around 300 small and medium
and medium enterprises.                                                 enterprises. Due to re-lending, the project
was able to lend 150% of the amount that
was originally allocated.



22
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                                         Status      Impact of study
1. "The use of emergency assistance funds support to   Completed   Evaluation
B&H', by Ministry of Social Welfare, Displaced            input to the
Persons and Refugees, March 1996                          ICR and future
sector policy
2. "Assessment of the Cash Benefit Programme in the  Completed   Evaluation
Bosnia and Herzegovina Federation", by Neil               input to the
Andersson, CIETintemational, December 1997                ICR and future
sector policy
3. "Report on the Project Financial Statements for the  Completed   PCU Book-
year 1996", Coopers & Lybrand, January 1997               keeping
improved
4. "Report on the PCU- Credit Line Section", by  Completed   Recommen-
GTZ, May 1998                                              dations
implemented
5. "ERP Audit report", by Institute of Accounting and  Completed   Recommen-
Auditing, February 1997                                    dations
implemented
6. "Report on Monitoring the Project Emergency  Completed   Evaluation
Social Fund", Institute of Public Health of Bosnia and    input to the
Herzegovina, November 1997                                ICR and future
sector policy
7. "Report on Evaluation and Monitoring of Urgent    Completed   Evaluation
Social Help Project", by Sumaproject, October 1997        input to the
ICR and future
sector policy
8. "PCU - Lines of Credit Section: Monitoring  Completed   Recommend-
Program Final Report", June 1997                           ations
implemented
9. "Assessment of Foster Parents Programme",  Completed   Evaluation
Bethany Christian Services, due January 1999              input to the
ICR and future
sector policy



23
Table 7: Project Costs and Project Financing
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Component                       Total                         Total
Critical Imports                          43.0                          22.6
Lines of Credit                           30.0                          24.3
Support for Functioning of Key            33.0                          36.4
Government Institutions
Social Fund                               54.0                          28.0
Total                                     160.0                         111.3
Note: includes parallel financing for technical assistance to the PCU (US$ 1.5 million)
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Item                                      Total                         Total
IDA                                        45                           45.0
Cofmancing Institutions (IDA               115                          64.8
Administered)
Cofinancing Institutions (Parallel)                                      1.5
Total                                      160                          111.3



24
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Bosnia and Herzegovina
ERP Loan Agreement
Covenant  Present   Original    Revised    Description of Covenant        Comments
Agreement  Section    Type    Status   Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date       Date
TRUST   Article       5       C    6/30/1998  6/30/1998  Borrower to prepare a plan for  LoC has been
FUND      III,                                           the future operation of part    transferred to the
3.04.                                           A(1) of the project; Federation  Federation Investment
to prepare a plan for the future  Bank.
operation of part A(2) and D of
the project.
TRUST   Article       I       C                           Borrower and Federation to  Project Implementation
FUND      IV,                                             maintain records and accounts  Plan was sent every two
4.01,                                           adequate to reflect the     weeks, or earlier if
(a).                                            operations, resources and   requested by TM.
expenditures in respect of the   Statements of the
Project of the departments or   Special Accounts as
agencies of the Federation  well as of the authorized
responsible for carrying out the project accounts were
Project.                    sent to TM upon
request.
TRUST    Schedul    10         C                          The Federation shall through    Re-lending from
FUND      e 4, B,                                         the PCU relent to the       Participating Financial
2, (a).                                         participating financial     Institutions complies
institutions the part of the credit with project objectives,
allocated to Category (3), under as well as with the
terms and conditions which  agreements regarding
shall have been approved by    interest rates, terms and
the Trustee                 risk sharing.
TRUST   Schedul    10          C                          The Federation shall through    The objective of the
FUND      e 4, B,                                         the PCU exercise its rights  credit regarding the Line
2, (d).                                         under the Subsidiary Loan   of Credit component is
Agreements (between PCU and being duly enforced
PFIs) in such as manner as to  through the review
protect the interests of the  process of project
Trustee and the Borrower and   proposals, and through
to accomplish the purposes of   Subsidiary Loan
the Credit, and, except as the    Agreements with
Trustee shall otherwise agree,  Participating Financial
not assign, amend, abrogate or  Institutions.
waive any such Agreement or
any provision thereof.
TRUST   Schedul  5,10          C    11/01/1996            In respect of repayment of  Separate account for
FUND      e 4, B,                                         principal of each Subsidiary    depositing the re-flow of
3, (a).                                         Loan utilized in the making of  LoC was opened at the
sub-loans under the project:    National Bank.
PCU will open and maintain, in
a bank acceptable to the
Trustee, an account on terms
and conditions satisfactory to
the Trustee, upon receipt of
each such repayment, credit the



25
Covenant  Present   Original    Revised    Description of Covenant       Comments
Agreement  Section    Type    Status   Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date      Date_
same to said account. To be
fulfil prior to the time of
repayments
TRUST   Annex        10        C                          The subsidiary loan to a PFI    Base rate and terms
FUND      to                                              shall be (a) charged monthly,   agreed with Trustee
Schedul                                         quarterly or semiannually, on   recommendations.
e 4, A,                                         the principal amount thereof    Amortization schedules
2                                               withdrawn and outstanding   are included in the legal
from time to time, interest at   agreements that are
the BASE RATE, as shall be    signed by the PCU and
adjusted from time to time in   the Banks for each
agreement with the Trustee;    credit made. these
and (b) repaid in accordance    agreements specify both
with an amortization schedule  principal and interest.
pursuant to which each portion
thereof utilized in the making
of a Sub-loan shall have a
maturity calculated to conform
to the amortization schedule
applicable to such Sub-loan.
BASE RATE means LIBOR
minus three percent.
TRUST   Annex        5        C                           A subsidiary Loan Agreement  Because the Federation
FUND      to                                              may be entered into with a PFI  Banking Supervision
Schedul                                        if:(a) PFI is duly established    Agency was established
e 4, B,                                         and licensed by FBSA to     after effectiveness of the
1.                                             operate in the Federation (b)    project, an interim
except as otherwise agreed with criteria for eligibility
the Trustee, has been in    was established (see
existence for at least two years; Form 590 No. 2, block
(c) is operating pursuant to  B). As of last
investment and lending policies supervision mission,
and procedures which the    progress on
trustee and the FBSA shall  establishment and
have judged acceptable, and    strengthening the
has undertaken to maintain said Federation Banking
policies and procedures; (d)    Supervision Agency,
except as otherwise agreed with supported under
the Trustee, has capital of at    component I of the
least DEM 2,500,000 or has a   Project, has been
plan acceptable to the Trustee   substantial. The BSA
and the FBSA to achieve     currently monitor all
minimum capital in accordance banks participating in
with applicable prudential  Line of Credit, and is
regulations.                preparing the legal and
administrative
framework for the
issuance of licenses
which would override
the current licenses
provided by National
Bank and other
authorities.



26
Covenant  Present   Original    Revised    Description of Covenant        Comments
Agreement  Section    Type    Status   Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date      Date
TRUST   Grant        13       C                           Except for covenants related to  This is just an
FUND      Agreem                                          Lines of Credit, which is   informative covenant for
ent for                                         entirely financed from      readers
TF2403                                          TF24036, all Legal Covenants
6 and                                           for TF24036 are those of
TF2403                                          TF24037.
7
TRUST    Schedul    3          C    08/31/1996            The cost recovery mechanism   Power imports are in
FUND      e 4, C,                                         in respect of the Critical  compliance. Regarding
2.                                             Imports component should be  transport equipment, no
specified in the Subsidiary  public organization
Grant Agreement (SGA). The  received maintenance
SGA specifies the following:   equipment. The cost
(i) resources for power should  recovery conditions for
be onlent at a rate equal to 3    the private contractors
percent annually and the funds  was set as follows: 8
shall be repaid over a period    years maturity, 3 year
not to exceed 12 years      grace and 3 percent
including a grace period of 5    annual interest. For this
years; (ii) equipment for public  latter category, the
maintenance organizations   maturity was increased
shall be made available on a    by I year, but the
grant basis; and (iii) equipment interest was also
for contract maintenance works increased by 2 percent.
and construction shall be relent This change is
to private sector construction    acceptable to the Bank.
enterprises which are properly
established according to the
law of the Federation, and keep
accounts according to
international standards. Eligible
private construction enterprises
shall pay interest at a rate equal
to 1% and the repayment
"should not exceed 7 years
including a grace period of 3
years.
TRUST   Art. IV,    1         CP    06/30/1997            Borrower and Federation     The auditors and the
FUND      4.01,                                           should have records and     Govermment has
(b).                                            accounts, including Special    requested to postpone
Accounts, audited in        the receipt of the
accordance with appropriate    fnancial auditing report
auditing principles consistently  due to: (i) the work load
applied, by independent     of the auditors who were
auditors. They shall furnish to  required to audit 8
the Trustee a certified copy of  additional projects; (ii)
the report of such audit as soon  the complexity of the
as available but no later than    ERP relative to other
six months after the end of the  projects (multiple
fiscal year (end of fiscal year in sources of financing and
Bosnia is December 31).     multiple components
and sub-components);
and (iii) the need to-



27
Covenant  Present   Original    Revised    Description of Covenant        Comments
Agreement Section    Type    Status   Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date      Date
revise the initial TOR to
further specify the scope
of the auditor's work.
TRUST   Annex        5        C                           The right of a PFI to the use of  All Participating
FUND      to                                              the proceeds of its respective    Financial Institutions
Schedul                                         Subsidiary Loan shall be: (a)   (PFI) are current on debt
e 4, A,                                         suspended upon failure of such  service, but one
3.                                              PFI to perform any of its   enterprise has default to
obligations under its respective  the PFI. The Line of
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or  Credit Section is in the
to continue to be in compliance  process of strengthening
with all legal and regulatory    its credit service
requirements applicable to its   department with a view
operations; and (b) terninated   of monitoring closely
if such right shall have been    the performance of
suspended for a continuous  enterprises and banks
period of 60 days.          and prepare a program
of: (i) action towards
future defaults by
commercial banks; (ii)
TA towards commercial
banks that has not
default to the PCU, but
having one or more
enterprises defaulting to
them. In addition,
closer coordination with
the Federation Banking
Agency has been
arranged to anticipate
any problem with
commercial banks.
Covenant types:                                                                       Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                           8. = Indigenous people                C = covenant complied
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from   9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  with
beneficiaries                               10. = Project implementation not covered   CD = complied with
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds       by categories 1-9                    after delay
4. = Counterpart funding                       11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary   CP = complied with
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  or other resource allocation     partially
agency                                      12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy!  NC = not complied
6. = Environmental covenants                     regulatory/institutional action      with
7. = Involuntary resettlement                  13. = Other                            NYD= not yet due



28
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title     Describe and comment on lack of compliance
All OM statements complied with



29
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of project cycle              Weeks          US$
(thousand)
Preparation to Appraisal*                         98.3          321.9
Appraisal                                         45.1          131.1
Negotiations through Board approval                5.7           10.2
Supervision                                      53.3           177.4
Completion                                         5.8           33.7
Total       210.1          674.3
*The project cost, as reflected in the table and MIS system, has been inflated during the early stages by staff working on the preparation of the
Four-Year Reconstruction Program, for which the appropriate code had not yet been created (Bosnia and Herzegovina was not formally a
member of the World Bank Group until June 13, 1996).
Table 1: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating          Types of
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of  Days   Specialization'   Implem.    Developm. Problems3
Year   Person       in                           status        objectives
______________________                   s      F ield
Through Appraisal
1.                              12/95         6        8 TM,E,F, PA,S   S                 S
Appraisal through Board           3/96        3       10 TM, E, A            N.R.          N.R.
approval
Supervision (590)*
1.                                7/96        4        7 TM, F, E, S        S             S
2.                               11/96        3       15 TM/E, HR, FI   S                  S
3.**                              3/97        1        0 E,FI
4.                                6/97        1       10 E                   S             S
5.                                8/97        2       12 ,TM/E,E,S           S             S
6.                                3/98        1        5 TM/E                S             S
Completion                       11/98        3       10 A, S                S             S
Total                                 24       77
1 - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:
F=Financial Economist                   S= Satisfactory
E=Economist                             N.R.= Not rated
A= Project Advisor
S= Social Sector Specialist
FI= Field Implementator
TM= Task Manager
* Excludes one staff based in the Resident Mission working full-time on supervision from March 1996 to December 1997.
** An Implementation Status and Next Steps Report was produced at Headquarters in March 1997.






31
ANNEX 1: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ICR






33
CONTRIBUTION OF THE FEDERATION MINISTRY OF SOCIAL
AFFAIRS, DISPLACED PERSONS AND REFUGEES
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
THE FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Federal Ministry of Social Affairs, Displaced Persons
And Refugees
REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION OF THE PROJECT
"Emergency Social Assistance to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina"
Sarajevo, November 16, 1998
1. Presentation and evaluation of the objectives
The following sub-projects were implemented within the Project "Emergency Social
assistance to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina":
a) Targeted cash benefit to the poorest households,
b) Aid to orphans - children without parental care,
b 1) Aid to children accommodated in foster families,
b2) Aid to children accommodated in institutions.
c) Assistance to war victims
cl) Rehabilitation, vocational training and invalids' reintegration in the society,
c2) Provision of wheel chairs and other appliances to disabled.
d) Support to welfare social offices.
Basic Objectives of sub-projects:
a) Targeted cash benefit to the poorest households was implemented in the territory of the
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Given the fact that at the beginning of the Project
more than 1/3 of the 2.500.000 inhabitants living in the territory of the Federation were
socially vulnerable categories, and that the funds for assistance to these categories of
population were insufficient compared to the needs, cash benefits were paid according to
the criteria and procedures established by this Ministry and the World Bank.
b) Aid to orphans - children without parental care was implemented through sub-
projects:
*  Provision of aid to children without parental care accommodated in foster families.
Cash benefits were given to foster families where children were accommodated.
Funds were allocated through Social Welfare Offices on the basis of prescribed
documentation.
*  Provision of aid to children without parental care accommodated in institutions. This
part of the Project was implemented by providing aid to institutions, creating and
improving the environment where these children were accommodated and educated.



34
c) Provision of assistance to war victims had the objective of improving the living
conditions of invalids through rehabilitation in the first stage and afterwards through
vocational training and reintegration in the society, in order to achieve, in the long term,
gradual rehabilitation and reintegration of these persons and families into the society. It
was implemented through a number of sub-projects.
*  Rehabilitation, vocational training and reintegration in the society of invalids. This
part of the Project was implemented through sub-projects dealing with vocational
training, rehabilitation and reintegration in the society of disabled persons.
*  Provision of wheel chairs and other appliances to disabled. This part of the project
was defined as a form of assistance providing wheel chairs and orthopedic appliances
to war victims and other devices for blind and deaf persons.
d) Provision of emergency social care to the population was implemented through
training of staff, procurement of equipment and of computers, procurement of
transportation equipment, remuneration to staff working on the Project, while a portion of
funds were used for advertisement - promotional activities, on all levels of project
implementation: Federation, Canton and Municipality, i.e. Welfare Offices.
2. Achievement of objectives
An exhaustive review of the effects of the project was presented through the book already
submitted to the World Bank - Review of effects of the project implementation
"Emergency Social Assistance to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina".
We would especially like to stress in this report the following effects of the sub-projects:
a) Targeted cash benefit to the poorest households,
Amount of cash benefit per person was 10 DM; 2.509.619 benefits were approved
and benefits were used by 525.000 beneficiaries per tranche of disbursement.
b) Aid to orphans - children without parental care,
bl) Aid to children accommodated in foster families,
Amount of benefit was 92 DM per beneficiary; 37.145 benefits were approved and
aid was used by 2.650 beneficiaries per tranche of disbursement.
b2) Aid to children accommodated in institutions,
Better living conditions and education were provided to 1.502 children
accommodated in those institutions.
c) Assistance to war victims
c 1) Rehabilitation, vocational training and reintegration in the society of disabled
Implementation of this sub-project envisaged:
- employment to 1.304 disabled persons,
- education of 1.758 disabled persons,
- extension of home care to 2.420 beneficiaries,
- rehabilitation in specialized institutions to 8.503 beneficiaries.
C2) Provision of wheel chairs and other appliances to handicapped persons,
All requests for wheel chairs and other appliances to handicapped persons were
provided and within this sub-project the following equipment was procured:
- wheels chairs: 72 pieces,
-sports wheel chairs: 36 pieces,



35
- orthopedic shoes: 592 pairs,
- orthopedic prosthesis: 65 pieces,
- various devices for blind persons,
- various equipment for deaf persons, etc.
d) Support to Social Welfare Offices
Implementation of this part of the Project extended the first technical assistance to the
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
This assistance was provided in a scenario of total destruction and represented the first
significant base for creating a computer data base for processing a large number of data at
all administrative levels from the Federation to the municipal welfare offices.
The following equipment was procured under this project:
- computer equipment and copiers,
- faxes and telephones,
- vehicles.
3. Implementation and critical factors affecting the Project
Projects has been implemented in all its parts through public competition. Individual
beneficiaries of the cash benefits to the most vulnerable categories and of the foster
families project had to apply directly to the relevant municipal offices.
Welfare offices were in charge of the evaluation and approval of applications directly
submitted by the beneficiaries.
Evaluation and approval of sub-projects submitted by implementing agencies were
performed by the Project Management Board.
Financial transactions during the project implementation were exclusively a
responsibility of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
Monitoring of the project implementation was performed by expert teams and institutions
engaged by the Ministry.
4. Project sustainability
Part of the Project dealing with cash benefits directly to the beneficiaries had the
objective of improving the social status of the most vulnerable population in the post war
period, as well as improving the accommodation of children without parental care in
foster families.
Funds that were sent to the Institutions for children without parental care under this
Project were of a permanent character in terms of creating adequate conditions for the
accommodation and education of the beneficiaries of those services.
Implementation of sub-projects of rehabilitation, vocational training and reintegration in
the society of invalids, as well as the sub-projects of providing wheel chairs and other
appliances, achieved a longer term objective of gradual rehabilitation and reintegration of
invalids in the society.
5. Impact and performance of the World Bank
A fundamental problem which minimized the positive effects in the first stage was the 7.
months delay in the transfer of money between the second and the third tranche, as well



36
as the reduction of planned cash benefits of a half compared to planned funds and
prepared activities in the Federation for that form of assistance.
We evaluate positively the reallocation of funds from the cash benefit to sub-projects for
employment (signed Aide Memoire in Washington, April 1997), but under pressure of a
few Welfare Offices, 50% of the outstanding amount of funds (5.5 million USD) was
anyhow used for cash benefits, which was, at the time of a decision making, inadequate
form of assistance because of the following:
a) Benefit amount could not satisfy the needs of beneficiaries,
b) Extremely high amount of monthly benefit, totaling 4 or 5 million DM.
c) Such form of assistance represents a forn of pure consumption, which was not in line
with more sustainable projects, such as projects of rehabilitation and employment.
The one positive effect of that decision was the fact that aid to children without parental
care was increased, and instead of the planned twelve installment of 92 DM, actually
fourteen were disbursed and that represented a significant aid in taking care of that
vulnerable group.
We would also like to point out that there were some problems in the part of the Project
related to implementation:
a) there were huge gaps between contracting and equipment delivery,
b) insufficient or lack of any participation of expert teams of the Ministry in evaluation of
bids and selection of equipment,
c) it was our estimate that the large portion of equipment could have been procured on the
local market or through local importers, possibly with better prices,
d) due to lack of funds we were forced to procure 23 vehicles for social welfare offices
out of the budget.
Our intention, given all above stated, was not to minimize the high evaluation of
engagement of the World Bank experts in the implementation of this Project, but we
estimated that even better results could have been achieved with more joint work and
coordination.
We evaluate extremely high the cooperation with PCU and engagement of the World
Bank staff member (Mr. Pedro L. Rodriguez with his guidelines, proposals, assessment of
project values, recommendations   and  advice for improvements to  project
implementation).
6. Evaluation of results
It is our opinion that the results of project implementation are positive, which is a result
of the Project implementation itself.
Obligations and responsibilities for the implementation of this Project were clearly
defined:
Federal Ministry of Social Affairs, Displaced Persons and Refugees was advertising
invitations to collect projects, performing assessment of projects and proposed them for
implementation.
The World Bank gave proposals, instructions and made final decisions on projects
implementation.
Financial transactions during project implementation were effected exclusively by PCU.



37
This manner of project implementation provided three levels of control which enabled
achievement of defined objectives.
7. Future operations
Manner of implementation of this project showed high level of efficiency and therefore,
we propose it as a model for implementation of future projects.
Implementation of this project provided realistic assumptions that in case of ensuring
additional funds out of additional sources or from the Donors Conference, Foundation for
implementation of projects in this field could be established. The Foundation could
operate 70% on revolving basis and 30% of grants for the institutions with specific needs
or emergency needs of socially vulnerable categories.
Sincerely,
MINISTER
Rasim Kadic



39
BOSNA I HERCEGOVINA
FEDERACIJA BOSNE I HERCEGOVINE
Federalno ministarstvo socijalne politike,
raseljenih osoba i izbjegtica
IZVJESTAJ 0 ZAVRtETKLJ IMPLEMENTACIJE PROJEKTA
'Hitna socilalna pomod Federacil Bosne i Hcgovine
Sarajevo, 16. 11.1998.godkn.



39
1. Predstavlianik i ociena cilieva
U okviru projekta 'Hitna socijalna pomoc Federaciji BiHw realizovani su
podprojekti:
a) Ciljana pomoc u novcu najsiromasnijim domacinstvima,
b) Pomoc sirodadima - djeci bez roditeljskog starania,
bl) Pomoc djeci smjestenoj u duge obiteiji,
b2) Pomoc djeci smiestenoj u ustanove
c) Pomod osobama povrijedenim u ratu.
cl) Rehabilitacija, osposobljavanje za rad i resocajalizacija invalida
c2) Obezbjedenje invalidskih kolica i drugih pomagala za hendikepirane
osobe
d) Podrska u implementaciji hitne socijalne zastite stanovniitva
Osnovni ciljevi podprojekata:
a) Ciljana pomoc u novcu najsiroma§nijim domacinstvima je realizovana kroz
novdana davanja najsiromasnijim domacinstvima, koja tive na teritoriji
Federacije Bosne i Hercegovine. S obzirom na cinjenicu. da je od ukupno
2.500.000 stanovnika na teritoriji Federacije u vrijeme pocetka realzacije
Projekta socijalno ugrozeno bib vist od 113 ukupne populacije, kao i da su
sredstva za pomoc ovoj kategoriji stanovnika bila minimalna u odnosu na
potrebe, navedena sredstva blia su ispladvana prema kriterijima i
postupku koji je utvrden od strane ovog Ministarstva i Sydetske banke
b) Pomoc sirocadima - djeci bez roditeljskog staranja je realizovana kroz
podprojekte;
- Pru2anje pomodi djeci bez roditeljskog staranja koja su smjestena u druge
obitelji. Ovaj dio Projekta je realizovan kroz pru±anje novcane pomodi
ovbiteijima u koje su smje§tena dieca bez roditeljskog staranja. Sredstva
su dodjelijivan.a preko Centara za. socijalni rad na osnovu propisane
dokumentacije.
a Pru±anje pomoa djeci bez roditeljskog staranja koia su smjpitena u
ustanove socijialne skrbi. Ovaj dio Projekta je realizovan kToz.pru±anje
pomoci ustanovama u cilju stvaranja i poboIjsania uslova za smjeitaj.
boravak i edukacju djece bez roditeljskog staranja.
c) Pomoc osobarna povrijedenim u ratu  ima cilj da omogudi rearmzacju
poboIjsanja kv;ialiteta fivljenja invalida kroz rehabilitaciju u prvoj fazi, a
potom kroz osposobwavenje za rad i resocijalizaciju, dime jo postigrwt
dugorodni cilj postepene rehabilitacije i reintegracije lidnosti i porodice u
druntvu, a reali;ovana je kroz podprojekte;
* Rehabilitacija, osposoblijavanje za rad i resocijalizacija invalida. Ovaj dio
projekta je realizovan kroz podprojekte koji se bave osposobljavarjem za
rad, zaposljavaniem, rehabilitacijom i resoajalizacijom invalidnih lica.
* Obezbjedenje invalidsWih kolica i drugih pornagala za hendikepirane
osobe. Ovaj clio projekta definiran kao vid pomodi u obezbjednju



40
invalidskih kclica i ortopedskhh pomagala za ±rtve rata, a pa potrebi
realizovani su i podprojekti za druge oblike pomoci (tifiotehniaka
pomagala, pornagala za gluhonijema lica i sI.).
d) Podrtka u implementaciji hitne socijaine zastite stanovniitva se sastojala u
edukaciji strudncig kadra, nabavci opreme za kompjuterizaciju, nabavci
opreme za transport, naknade izvrsiocima na projektu kao i dio sredstava za
propagandno --promotivne aktivnosti, na svim razinama implementacij.
projekta: Federacije, Kantona i Opcine odnosno Centra za socijalni rad.
2. Ostvarivanie cilieva.
Pregied planiranilh efektia Projekta je prezentovan kroz dostavfenu knjigu -
Pregled efekata rnalizaciqe projekta THitna socijalna pomod Federaciii Bosne i
Hercegovine9.
U  ovom  izvjestaju posebno zelimo apostrofirati slijedede efekte po
podprojektima kao sto su:
a) Cilijana pomod u novcu naisiromasnijim domacinstvima,
Vrijednost nalnade po osobi je 10 DEM, odobreno 2.509,619 naknada, a
pomoc koristilco pa transi isplate oko 525.000.korisnika
b) Pomod sirodadima - djeci bez roditeljskog staranja,
bi) Pomod djeci smjestenoj u duge obiteiji,
Visina naknade je 92.DEM po korisniku, odobreno 37.145 naknada, a
pomod konstilo po transi isplate oko 2650 korisnika
b2) Pomod djeci smjestenoj u ustanove
Boije uslove smjestaja i edukacije jo dobilo 1.502 iti6enika ovih
ustanova
c) Pamod osobamna povrijedenim u ratu.
e1) Rehabilitacija, osposobljavanje za rad i resocijalizacija invalida
Realizacijom ovog podprojakta planirano je:
- zapoijavianie 1304 invalidna lica,
- odukacija za 1758 invalidnih lica,
- pru±anje Lusfuga kudne njege za 2420 korisnika,
- pruzanje usluga rehabilitacije u specijalizovanim ustanovama za 8503
korisnika.
c2) Obezbjedcenje invalidskih kolica i drugih pomagala za hendikepirane
osobe
Realizacijorn ovog podprjekta reaiizovari su svi zahtjevi za
obezbjedenjem invalidsldh kolica i drugih pomagala za invalidne
osobe, a u sastavu ovog podprojekta nabavljeno je t
- invalidskih kolica 72 komada,
- sportskih invalidskih kolica 36 komada,
- ortopedskih cipela 592 para,
- ortopedskih proteza 65 komada,
- raznih tiflotehni&ih pomagala,
- razne opreme za gluha i nagluga lica i sl.



'41
d) Podrska u implementaciji hitne socijalne zastite stanovnittva
Realizacijom ovog dijela projekta pruzena je prva tehnidka pomod
Federaciji Bosne i Hercegovine.
Ova pomoc ,e stigla u uslovima potpune razruienosti i predstavifa prvu
znacajnu osriovu za stvaranje informati&ke baze za obradu velikog broia
podataka na svim administrativnim nivoima od Federalnih do opdinskih
struktura - Centara za socijalni rad.
U ovom Projektu nabavljena je sledeca oprema:
- kompjuterska oprema i kopir aparati,
- telefaks aparati i telefoni,
- vozila.
3. Imolementaciia i nalznacainiii fakton koii su uticali na Prolekat
Projekat u svim svojim dijelovima je realizovan putem javnih natjecaja, na
osnovu kojih su nosioci realizaciie podproiekata konkurisali sa svojim
prijedlozima i na osnovu aplikacija pojedinadnih korisnika u dijelu projekta koji
se odnosi na pruzanje novcane pomodi najugrozenijim kategonjama
stanovnistva Fecleracije Bosne i Hercegovine i pru±anje pomodi obitelima u
kojima su smiebtana dijeca bez roditeljskog staranja.
U dijelu projekta gdje su korisnici direktno dostavljali svoje aplikacije, oqjenu i
verifikaciju istih vrsili su Centri za socijalni rad.
Ocijenu i verifikacju podprojekata koje su dostavljali nosioci realizacje je
davao Upravni odbor Projekta.
Finansijske transakcije u realizaciji Projekta su vriene preko i u iskliLucivo
nadleznosti Jedinice za koordinaciju projekta PCU.
Monitoring na realizaciju Projekata je poweren stru&iim tirnovirna i
institucijama koje je angazovalo Ministarstvo finansija.
4. Odrdivost proiekta
Dia Propjekta koji se odnosio na novdane naknade direktnim korisnicima imao
je za ciij da u poslijeratnom periodu poboijia socijalni status najugrotenre
populacije, kao i pobolj§anje uslova smjestaja dijece bez roditeljskog stararna
u druge porodice.                          %
Sredstva pc Projektu koja su doznadena Ustanovarna za smiet djece bez
roditeljskog staranja su trajnog karaktera u smislu stvaranja adekvatnih usloya
za smjestaj, boravak i edukaciju korisnika ovih usluga.
Realizacijom podprojekata rehabilitacaje osposobijavanja za rad i
resocijalizacije irvalida, kao i podprojekata obezbje4Xenja invalidskih kolica i
drugih pomagala, postignut je dugororni cilj postepene rehabiitacije i
reintegracije linaosti invalida u drustvo.



42
5. Ucinak i 0oslovanie Svietske banke
Osnovni problem koji je minimizirao sve pozitivne efekte u prvoj fazi je
kasnjenje u transveru novca za sve namjene od 5 do 7 mjeseci izmedu druge
i trece transe, kao i smanjenje planiranih davanja iz cach-benefit fonda za
jednu polovinu u odnosu na planirana sredstva i pripremijene aktivnosti u
Federaciii za ov;3j vid pomodi.
Pozitivno ocijerjujemo preusmjerenje sredstava iz dijela cach-benefit-a u
odr2ive projekte zaposljavanja (potpisan Aid memory u Vosingtony, aprila
1997.godine), ali pod pritiskom jednog broja Centara za socijalni rad 50%
preostalog iznosa sredstava ( 5,5 mil. USD) je ipak iskoristeno u cach-benefit-
u, koji je u trenutku donosenja takve odluke bio prevazidTen oblik pomoci i to
zbog:
a) Visina naknade nije mogla zadovoijiti potrebe korisnika,
b) Izuzetno visckog iznosa miesecne naknade za ove potrebe
od 4 do 5 mil.DEM,
c) Ovakva vrsta pomodi predstaviia oblik cste potrosnje, sto je suprotno vec
tada uspostavljenoj orijentaciji na odrzive projekte, kao sto su projekti
zapo;ijavanja i rehabilitacije.
Jedini pozitivan efekat ovakve odluke je pomocr djeci bez roditeljskog starania
kroz cinjenicu da je isplaceno cetmaest umjesto planiranih dvanaest isplata
iznosa od po 92 DEM sto predstavlja znadajnu pomoc u zbrinjavanju ove
populacije.
Isto tako ielimo napomenuti da je tokom implementacije Projekta u dijetu
realizacije podrtke u implementaciji bilo problema:
a) doslo do velildh pauza izmedu ugovarania i isporuke opreme,
b) nedovoljno iHi nikakvo ucesce strudnih ekipa ovog Ministarstva u
razmatrenju ponuda i odabiru opreme,
c) procjenjujerno da smo dobar dio opreme mogti nabaviti na Domacem
triijtu i1i posredstvom domacih uvoznika, moguce i pod povolinijim
cijenama.
d) zbog nedostatka sredstava bili smo prinudeni iz budzeta nabaviti 23
automobila za Centre za sociialni rad.
Navedenim ne zelimo umanjiti visoku ocjenu a angalmanu strudnih Ijudi
Svjetske!banke u realizaciji ovog Projekta, ali procjenjujerlto da su se uz viie
zajednickog rada mogli obezbjediti jot boiji rezultati.
Veoma pozitivno ocjenjujemo saradnju sa PCU  i anga2manom osobia
Svietske banke (Pedro L. Rodriguez sa svoim  upustvima, prjedlozima,
procjenama vrijednosti projekata, preporukama i savietima za unaprijedenie
nacina realizacije Projekta).
6. Ociena rezultata
Smatramo da su rezultati u realizaciji Projekta pozitivni, sto je rezultat i samog
nacina realizacije Projekta.



43
U implementaciji ovog Projekta obaveze- i odgovornozti su bile jasno
precizirane:
Federalno ministarstvo socijalne politike raseUjenih lica i izbjegfica je vriilo
raspisivanje ogl;3sa za prikupljanje projekata, procjenu projekata i predlagalo
projekte za realizaciju.
Svjetska banka je davala prijedloge, upute i konacnu odluku o rearizacai
projekata.
Finansijske transakcije u realizaciji projekata su vrsene preko i u iskliucivoj
nadle2nosb Jedinice za koordinaciju PCU.
Ovakav nacin realizacije Projekta obezbjeduje triparitetnu kontrclu ia
omoducava postizanje ciljeva koji su definisani.
7. Buduce ooeraciie
Nacin realizacije ovog Projekta se pokazao -veoma efikasan, tako da ga
predlazemo kao model za realizaciju buducih projektata.
Realizacija ovog projekta je obezbjedila realne predpostavke da se u .stulaju
obezbjedenja sradstava iz dodatnih izvora iii sa Donatorske konferencije,
moze uspostaviti Fondacija za realizaciju projekata iz ove oblasti. Fondacija bi
mogla poslovati 70% na bazi revolvinga i 30% 0granda za ustanove posebne
namjene i1i urgentne potrebe socijalno ugrozenih kategoriia.
S postovanjem.
-M NIST F  -                



44



45
CONTRIBUTION OF THE FEDERATION MINISTRY OF FINANCE
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
THE FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FEDERAL MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Sarajevo, November 17, 1998
The World Bank
Resident Mission in Sarajevo
Attn. Ms. Patrizia Poggi
Consultant
ECSSD
Subject: Opinion regarding implementation of Emergency Recovery Project (ERP)
In reference to the preparation of the final report on implementation of ERP and in
connection with your recent visit to this Ministry, I attach herewith my opinion:
As I have already stressed earlier, my basic comment was that the Project should have
been implemented at the level of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and not at the
level of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
In that case, the Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina would issue,
on the basis of its development program, the decisions on the allocation and
implementation of approved funds and the responsibility of the project implementation
would have been with competent line Ministries.
Besides that, over 80% was implemented in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
and there was no reason to set up the Project at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
It is known to you that the coordination and implementation of ERP was at the level of
Bosnia and Herzegovina and that ERP was one of the first projects of the World Bank
intended to assist in the reconstruction program. The PCU was established by the former
Ministry of Finance of Bosnia and Herzegovina and not by the Coordination Board of the
Federation Government, and signing of payment orders for payments from the special
account were performed by the PCU Director with co-signing of authorized person from
former Ministry of Finance of Bosnia and Herzegovina, later to become a Ministry of
Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Due to that fact, we did not have any insight in withdrawal and spending of proceeds for
the largest part of disbursed funds.
Overall viewing, the World Bank had a significant positive influence on project
transparency and improvement of overall quality of project implementation process and
to that sense, there had been an extremely good collaboration between the Ministry and
the World Bank.



46
You are probably aware that we have been more included in the implementation of the
project since the beginning of this year but even during that period, I have not been
receiving prompt and full information.
However, I think that generally speaking, the Project was implemented successfully, from
the standpoint of achieving of objectives set forth in the Project: support to Institutions of
Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, financing of the
most vulnerable social categories (social fund) and support to other projects of
reconstruction in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
I would especially like to stress the successful implementation of the credit lines within
the Project, which financed development in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
There is no doubt that we learned good lessons in all stages of implementation of this
Project and we find them significant and that they were useful in the next projects of
reconstruction of the Federation that are under implementation. First of all, I was
referring to the quality of implementation, supervision and responsibilities for project
implementation.
The lessons learned will definitely be very useful in the future for the purposes of higher
efficiency of invested funds.
Sincerely,
MINISTER
Drago Bilandzija



47
BOSNAI HERCEGOVINA                        BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FEDERACIJA BOSNE I HERCEGOVINE            FEDERATION BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FEDERALNO MINISTARSTVO FINANCIJA               FEDERAL MINISTRY OF FINANCE
FEDERALNO MINISTARSTVO FINANSIJA
Broj:04- C ^ i;
Sarajevo, 17.studeni 1998.god.
SVJETSKA BANKA
PREDSTAVNISTVO Sarajevo
n/p Patrizia Poggi
Konsultant
ECSD
Predmet:Mi§ijenje u svezi implementacije Projekta hitnog oporavka( ERP)
Glede izrade zavr§nog izvjes6a implementacije ERP-a i u svezi s tim i vale nedavne
posjete Ministarstvu dostavljam Vam misljenje:
Kao sto sam i ranije isticao , osnovna moja primjedba je da se Projekt trebao
implementirati na razini Federacije BiH , a ne na razini Bosne i Hercegovine.
U tom sludaju bi \Vada Federacije BiH donosila , na temelju programa razvoia
odluke o usrnjeravanju i implementaciji odobrenih sredstava i odgovomost
realiziranja projekata bi bila na nadleznim resornim ministarstvima.
Osim toga u Federaciji BiH se realiziralo preko 80% sredstava i nije bila razioga da
se Projekt postavlja na razinu Bosne i Hercegovine .
Poznato vamn je da je koordinacija i implementacija ERP-a bila na razini Bosne i
Hercegovine i da je ERP bio jedan od prvih projekata Svjetske banke namjenjen za
obnovu i rekonstrukciju. PCU( Ured za koordinaciju projekta ) je forrniran od strane
bivseg Ministarstva financija BiH ,a ne Koordinacijskog odbora Viade Federacje, a
potpisivanje naloga za placanja sa specijainih racuna je vrsio direktor PCU uz
parafiranje ovlastene osobe iz bivseg Ministarstva financija BiH, kasnije Ministarstva
vanjske trgovine i ekonomskih odnosa .
Samim tim nisrno imali nikakvog uvida u povlacenja i trogenja sredstava za naive;
dio realiziranih sredstava.
U cijelini gledajuci Svjetska banka je  imala znacajan pozitivan utiecaf naT
transparentnost projekta i poboIjsanje kvaliteta cjelokupnog procesa implementacije
projekta i u torn pravcu je ostvarena i dobra suradnja Ministarstva sa S\detskom
bankom.
Poznato vam je da smo od pocetka ove godine bili vise ukljudeni u imp1ementacFju
projekta mada nisam uvijek ni u ovom periodu dobijao pravovremeno potpune
informacije.



48
Ipak mislim da je generalno Projekt uspiesno realiziran , sa stanovilta ispunjenja
ciljeva koji su postavljeni u projektu: potpora institucijama Bosne i Hercegovine i
Federacije BiH , financiranje najugrozenijih socijalnih kategorija( socijalni fond) i
potpora drugim projektima obnove i rekonstrukcije u Federaciji BiH .
Posebno bi istakao uspjesno realiziranje kreditne linije u okviru Projekta 1putem koae
je omogudeno dalje financiranje razvoia u Federaciji BiH.
Nedvojbeno je da su stecena iskustva u svim fazama rea!izirania ovog projekta
znacajna i da su koristila u kasnijim projektima obnove i razvoja u Federaciji koji su u
tijeku implementacije ,prije svega tu mislim na razinu implementacije, kontrolu ;
odgovomosti za relizaciju projekata .
Stecena iskustva de sigumo koristiti i ubuduce u pravcu povedanja efikasnosti I
ucinkovitosti ulozenih sredstava.
S stovanjem,
--              M I N MINISTAR
jTR'<       Drago  and2iia



49
ANNEX 2: COFINANCIER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR






51
Annex 2   Cofinancier contribution to the ICR
November 16, 1998
World Bank Emergency Recovery Project - Final Evaluation
Statement of Objectives: Within the ERP, two activities were financed by Italian funds: the Lines of
Credit and the Social Fund.
Achievement of Objectives: The Lines of Credit performed well, putting in place the conditions for
the development of small and medium scale private businesses, a much needed type of activity in
Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The Social Fund, and in particular the Cash Benefits to the poorest households, was strongly
supported by the Italian government, that felt the urgent need to help the most vulnerable groups of
the population in the aftermath of the war. Objectives, however, were only partially achieved. The
Social Fund did alleviate the suffering of the most disadvantaged groups of the population within
the Federation, but it failed in creating a medium- and long-term solution for them
Implementafton andMajor Factors Affectzng the Project: An overall factor affecting the project has
been the excessive focus on the major cities. If this proved to be positive in the Lines of Credit, it
certainly affected negatively the performance of the Social Fund. As far as the social sector is
concerned, the Italian government would have preferred that the project included also the suburbs
of Sarajevo where displaced Serb citizens settled in very critical conditions.
BankPerformance: Bank performance was very good in the credit sector,-much less so in the social
one, where a deeper knowledge of the local realities and a more capillar presence within the country
would have been needed.
Borrower Performance: A major achievement of the World Bank, however, consisted in helping the
creation of the PIUs, where the most qualified local experts were hired. Borrower's performance
was consequently enhanced by the high professional standards of the PIU involved in the
management and implementation of the ERP.
Assessment of Outcome: The overall assessment of the outcome is positive. The good results
achieved by the Lines of Credit led the Italian government to    er support this type of activity.
/  a2wheri?aaolS 
/ Italev~~eo






53
ANNEX 3 - PROJECT INFORMATION PREPARED BY PCU FOR THE
ICR






55
Table 3.1: Bosnia and Herzegovina
Emergency Recovery Project
Financing Plan (US$ million)
Component              IDA                              Multicountry                                Total  Total
and
Credit Grant Netherlands Japan Switz. Iceland Luxembourg Italy  Canada  Sweden          GTZV
I. Critical Imports
(a) Power sector                6.82             1.97         3.05                                              11.84
(b) Transport - construction sector    7.68      3.06                                                           10.74
Subtotal   14.50            5.03          3.05                                             22.58
II. Lines of Credit
(a) Small and medium-sized     15.50             3.50                                   5.26                    24.26
enterprises
Subtotal   15.50            3.50                                   5.26                    24.26
Ill. Support to Key Govemment
Institutions
(a) Implementation support                       0.65                                                            0.65    1.50
(b) Technical assistance              0.12       0.30         0.57                                               0.99
(c) Support to privatization                     1.02                                                            1.02
(d) Office equipment                  0.44       1.37  2.00   0.47                0.15                           4.43
(e) Operation support                            0.65         0.99                                               1.64
(f) Salary supplement                 4.44                    0.26                                               4.70
(g) Repair to govt. buildings                    4.66  7.00   0.80   0.16         0.37                          12.99
(h) Aid coordination                             0.54                                                            0.54
Subtotal         5.00       9.19  9.00   3.09   0.16         0.52                          26.96   28.46
VI. Project prepar. pilot projects
(a) Project preparation                          3.82  .                                                         3.82
(b) Pilot projects                               4.10                                                            4.10
Subtotal                    7.92                                                            7.92
Subtotal III and IV.                                                                               34.88   36.38
V. Emergency Social Fund
(a) Cash benefits to poor                       10.00                                   2.48    3.23      0.16  15.87
households
(b) Mobility aids for the disabled    7.50                                              0.81    0.43      0.94   9.68
(c) Institutional implementation      2.50                                                                       2.50
support
Subtotal        10.00      10.00                                   3.29    3.66      1.10  28.05
TOTAL FINANCING    30.00 15.00       35.64  9.00   6.14   0.16         0.52  8.65    3.66      1.10 109.77  111.30
Source: PCU audited (1996 and 1997) and unaudited accounts (1998).
* Includes funding for lines of credit and social fund
Parallel financing from Gesellschaft Fur Technische Zusammennarbeit



56
Table 3.2: Repairs to Government Buildings
(US dollars)
item     Building                                                                        Amount USD
A        State Govemment
1        Ministry of Foreign Affairs                                                         598,377
2        Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency                                                    793,791
3        Parliament Complex                                                                 2,105,128
4        Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina                                                68,890
5        Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations                                     379,949
6        Civil Aviation Directorate                                                           152,660
7        Lukavica State Meeting House                                                         87,377
Subtotal                         4,186j172
B        Federaton Bosnia and Herzegovina Govemment
I        High Court                                                                         2,264,155
2        Institute for Statistics                                                           1,039,116
3        DPO- Federal Parliament                                                              89,323
4        Palace of Justice                                                                   713,969
5        Ministry of Defense (civilian staff)                                                 997,373
6        Govemment Building - Titova 7a                                                        89,003
7        Ministry of Education                                                               214,752
8        Ministry of Interior                                                                 40,135
9        Institute for Agro-pedology                                                          49,752
10       FBosnia and Herzegovina Ministries - city of Mostar                                 135,229
11        Metereological Station                                                              57,566
12       FBosnia and Herzegovina Govemment Apartments                                        656,310
13       Tax Administration (temp. oral)                                                      133,168
14       Institute for Economy - MIT                                                           53,233
15       Laboratory for Criminology                                                           157,448
16       National Library                                                                     171,319
17       FBosnia and Herzegovina Govemment Alipasina                                         309,836
18       Custom and Tax Administration (seed works)                                         1,098,488
19       Church at Marijin Dvor                                                                 6,856
20       Heating Pipeline                                                                       6,148
Subtotal                         8,283,178
C        Other civil works in the city of Mostar                                              519,953
Total                        12,989,303
Source: PCU audited (1996 and 1997) and unaudited accounts (1998).



57
Table 3.3: Support to Key Government Institutions
(US dollars)
ERP package    Other    Subtotal   Consulting   Operating  Salary suppi.   Total USD
Institution        Equipment  equipment   goods       services     costs    Pilot projects
A State Government        447,996.72    573,829.71 1,021,826.43   761,326.45  166,933.80 1,083,492.49 3,023,579.17
of which:
1 Central (National) Bank    124,196.83   312,192.98  436,389.81   160,693.12   150,000.00  0.00   747,082.93
2 Government (Council of    59,570.11    103,792.79   163,362.90  0.00    3,741.99       0.00   167,104.89
Ministers)
3 Ministry of Foreign   227,242.97   133,853.31   361,096.28  600,633.33    3,191.81     0.00   964,921.42
Trade & Economic
Relations
4 Civil Aviation and     36,986.81    23,990.63   60,977.44       0.00        0.00       0.00    60,977.44
others
B Federation Govemment   2,356,863.39  1,277,246.44 3,634,109.83  6,029.67 1,485,392.39 3,615,845.02  8,741,376.91
of which:
1 Banking Supervision   183,220.42        0.00   183,220.42       0.00 1,043,649.67      0.00  1,226,870.09
Agency
2 Custom Administration    549,457.36    704,322.90 1,253,780.26  0.00    6,491.80       0.00  1,260,272.06
3 Tax Administration    801,039.96    158,394.43   959,434.39     0.00        0.00       0.00   959,434.39
4 Federal Ministry of   134,454.78    15,183.40   149,638.18      0.00  368,544.65       0.00   518,182.83
Finance
5 Canton Budget Offices    199,994.76  3,275.30   203,270.06      0.00        0.00       0.00   203,270.06
6 Federal Govemment &   339,254.12    88,975.96  428,230.08   6,029.67    15,248.30      0.00   449,508.05
Services (Prime
Minister's Office)
7 Parliament             27,064.43    24,947.21    52,011.64      0.00        0.00       0.00    52,011.64
8 Meteorological Institut  65,710.45   4,209.21    69,919.66      0.00    7,735.33       0.00    77,654.99
9 MIT Center and others  56,667.11    277,938.03   334,605.14     0.00   43,722.64       0.00   378,327.78
C Coordination and        340,487.59    249,317.80   589,805.39   511,645.60 1,087,451.06   0.00  2,188,902.05
Privatization
1 Donors - Aid           32,831.46    114,327.28   147,158.74   73,128.84   318,703.03   0.00   538,990.61
Coordination
2 Project Coordination   82,905.93    84,958.82   167,864.75   152,888.99  311,328.41    0.00   632,082.15
Unit - PCU
3 Fed.and Canton        224,750.20    50,031.70  274,781.90   285,627.77  457,419.62     0.00  1,017,829.29
Agencies
For Privatization
D Repair to Government                                                                           12,989,303.00
. Buildings*"
E Project Implementation  934,553.61    486,438.87 1,420,992.48 1,181,930.62 1,220,295.39 4,100,218.44  7,923,436.93
.Units
F Technical Assistance                                                                            1,500,000.00
(GTZ)
Total 36,366,596.00
Source: PCU audited (1996 and 1997) and unaudited accounts (1998).
See Table 3.4
See 3.2



58
Table 3.4: Project Implementation Units and Pilots
ERP package    Other       Subtotal    Consulting   Operating   Pilot projects    Total
Institution      equipment    equipment     goods      services    support
Project ImplementatIon  934,553.61    486,438.87 1,420,992.48 1,181,930.62 1,220,296.39 4,100,218.44  7,923,436.93
Units, of which:
1 PIU Farms and         280,742.78    27,676.08   308,418.86      0.00  388,398.77       0.00    696,817.63
agriculture
2 PIU Education         131,224.83    -42,108.52    89,116.31   396,885.48   147,753.11  0.00    633,754.90
3 PlUWatersupply         31,734.46        0.00    31,734.46   402,726.14   179,531.37    0.00   613,991.97
4 PIU Housing            50,298.54    10,595.99    60,894.53      0.00   122,345.00 2,947,710.13  3,130,949.66
5 PILl Health and war    57,251.14        0.00   57,251.14        0.00    1,571.06       0.00     58,822.20
victims
6 PILl Demining          52,421.76    254,184.00   316,605.76    52,000.00    33,825.73   771,424.53  1,173,856.02
7 PIU Local public works    120,070.53  5,927.87   125,998.40     0.00   102,255.93   381,083.78    609,338.11
(LORA)
8 PILl Local initiatives  29,899.91   20,289.90   50,189.81       0.00   100,460.89      0.00    150,650.70
(LOIN)
9 PILl Demobilization    68,789.62    20,396.38    89,186.00   330,319.00    26,802.06   0.00    6,307.06
1 Investment Guarantee   41,651.38        0.00   41,651.38        0.00   117,351.47       0.00    159,002.85
0 Agency
1 Monitoring of          32,431.53        0.00   32,431.53        0.00        0.00        0.00    32,431.53
1 Procurement Unit
I PIU Transport          30,910.85        0.00   30,910.85        0.00        0.00        0.00    30,910.85
2
1 PILl District heating       0.00    179,477.17   179,477.17     0.00        0.00        0.00    179,477.17
3 (Sarajevogas)
1 Other implementation    7,126.28        0.00    7,126.28        0.00        0.00        0.00     7,126.28
4 support
Source: PCU audited (1996 and 1997) and unaudited accounts (1998).



59
ANNEX 4: STRUCTURE OF EXPENDITURES BY DONOR



I



61
Table 4.1: Netherlands Grant (TF 20874)
Category    Structure of Expenditures                                Amount           Allocated       Balance
USD
(1) Goods
Local market equipment                                      617,322.95
Sarajevogas                         179,477.17                   PIU Farms            27,676.08
Project Implementation Units         42,777.70              *   PIU Education        -42,108.52
Aid coordination -MFA               114,327.28                   PIlU Housing         10,595.99
Privattzation                        50,031.70                   PIU LORA              5,927.87
Project Coordination Unit            55,235.86                   PIU LOIN             20,289.90
State Government Institutions        77,310.91                   Demobilization       20,396.38
Federal Government Institutions      98,162.33                              Sum:    42,777.70
Vehicles for PP demining                                    264,184.00
Tax Administration - Computers equip.                        61,142.00
Fumiture - First Comm. Enterprises                          167,808.58
Project Coordination Unit            29,722.96
State Government Institutions       138,085.62
Power sector - EP                                         1,966,166.11
Transport - Construction Equipment                        3,058,144.31
New Equipment (D/P)               2,707,904.87
Spare parts                         350,239.44
ERP Equipment                                             2,254,273.49
Computers                         1,200,087.00
Office Supply                       662,131.42
Copiers and faxes                    37,473.56
Vehicles                            248,331.86
Vehicles for Privatization          106,249.65
Subtotal       8,389,041.44        8,400,000      10,959
(2) Civil Works
Govemment Buildings                                       4,646,569.49
Public Works Pilot Projects                                 381,083.78
Demining Pilot Projects                                     376,221.43
Housing Pilot Projects                                    2,947,710.13
Spent        8,351,584.83
Govemment Buildings (27,619 DEM)                             15,878.43
Committed           15,878.43
Subtotal       8,367,463.26        8,340,000     -27,463
(3) Credit Line                                        Subtotal        3,500,000.00       3,500,000           0
(4) Social Fund                                        Subtotal       10,002,299.28      10,003,000         701
- Continue -



62
Category    Structure of Expenditures                                Amount           Allocated       Balance
USD
-Continued-
(5) Consultant's Services
Local contracts and services                              1,074,708.85
PIU Education                       396,885.48
PIU Water supply                    402,726.14
Aid coordination - MFA          73,128.84
Privatization                  173,232.09
Project Coordination Unit            22,013.51
State Govemment Institutions           693.12
Federal Govemment Institutions        6,029.67
Amold & Porter - Debt Legal Services                        295,229.61
Goods procurement services(16,840TA+1377.27FParl.)           18,217.27
Privatization - First Statement                             112,395.68
Demining Pilot Project - DSL                                396,203.10
Demining - Claude Milleret                                   52,000.00
PIU Demobilization - US Labor Department                    330,319.00
Kleiman IC - Credit line expert - PCU                        66,653.00
Coopers & Lybrand Consultants -PCU                           16,200.00
ERP Auditing - PCU                                           14,500.00
ERP Final Report Supplement                                  30,964.14
Spent        2,406,390.65
Goods procurement services - PCU                              4,371.17
Committed            4,371.17
Subtotal       2,410,761.82        2,500,000      89,238
(6) Operating Costs
Central Bank                                                150,000.00
Project Implementation Units                               1,220,295A2
PIU Education                       147,753.11
PIU Water supply                    179,531.37     .             PIU LORA            102,255.93
PIU Farms                           388,398.80                   PIU LOIN            100,460.89
PIU Housing                         122,345.00                   Demobilization       26,802.06
PIU Demining                         33,825.73                   Heaith                1,571.06
PlUs for Employment (incl. health)  231,089.94              p L             Sum:   231,089.94
Investment Guarantee Agency         117,351.47
Aid coordination - MFA                                      318,703.03
Privatization                                               457,419.62
Project Coordination Unit                                   297,017.78
Project Coordination Unit (2)                                14,310.63
State Govemment Institutions                                  6,933.80
Federal Government Institutions                              74,879.14
Federal Govemment Instit. in Mostar                         366,863.58
Bank Supervision Agency                                      52,632.17
Spent        2,959,051.17
PCU - Current Operating Cost                                 11,379.03
Committed           11,379.03
Subtotal       2,970,434.20        2,897,000     -73,434
Spent       35,608,371.37
Committed           31,628.63
Total      35,640,000.00       35,640,000           0
Source: PCU audited (1996 and 1997) and unaudited accounts (1998).



63
Table 4.2: Japanese Grant (TF 23466)
Category                    Structure of Expenditures              Amount USO             Allocated    Balance
(1) Civil Works
Govemment buildings                                           6,678,636.94
Mostar City Projects                                            295,866.77
Spent           6,974,603.71
Govemment buildings (46,000 DEM)                                 25,491.74
Committed              25,491.74
Subtotal          6,999,995.45     7,000,000         5
(2) Goods
(a) Goods under Part AI (State level)
Local market equipment                                            8,105.06
Council of Ministers (JG-7)            1,637.65
Council of Ministers (JG-9)            1,233.69
Ministry of Foreign Trade (JG-9)       3,616.17
Ministry without porfolio (JG-34)      1,617.55
Telecommunication equipment - Central Bank                       80,350.03
Security Equipment - Central Bank                               220,431.85
ERP Equipment                                                   151,296.12
Computers                            133,343.00
Vehicle for HMI (11836.96+679.57)     12,516.53
Vehicle for CA procurment              5,436.59
Furniture - Lukavica                                             39,752.69
Subtotal           499,935.75        500,000         64
(2) Goods under Part A2 (Federation
level)
Local market equipment                                          103,398.23
Federal Tax Administration (JG-7)     97,252.43
Cantonal Budget Offices (JG-7)         3,275.30
Federal Custom Admin. (JG-9)            735.59
Federal Legislation OfFice (JG-9)       996.87
FMF External Debt Unit (JG-36)         1,138.04
ERP Equipment                                                   423,927.51
Computers                             86,390.00
Copiers and faxes                     64,818.41
Vehicles                             177,331.02
Vehicles for FCA                      95,388.08
Fumiture for High Court Building                                277,938.03
Custom Ad. - X-ray equip. (126855+9541.77)                      136,396.77
Custom Administration - Combies                                 181,382.80
Custom Administration - Unfforms                                377,025.46
Subtotal          1,500,068.80     1,500,000        -69
Spent           8,974,508.26
Committed              25,491.74
Total          9,000,000.00      9,000,000         0
Source: PCU audited (1996 and 1997) and unaudited accounts (1998).



64
Table 4.3: Switzerland, Luxembourg and Iceland (TF 24010)
Category                   Structure of Expenditures                  Amount           Allocated      Balance
USD
(1) Goods
Local market equipment (MD-11)                                 2,478.98
Power Sector - Elektroprivreda                             3,051,800.17
Page Sorter for Parliament Services                           13,481.34
ERP Equipment - Computers for Tax Admin.                     606,921.00
Subtotal        3,674,681.49       3,594,796    -79,885.5
(2) Civil Works
Government Buildings                                       1,102,773.82
Mostar City Administration                                   224,085.80
Subtotal        1,326,859.62       1,425,000    98,140.4
(3) Consultant's Services
Auditing of WB Projects                                      187,000.00
Central and National Bank Auditing                           160,000.00
Equipment procurement services                               223,476.96
ERP Equipment package               201,718.15
Central bank TC & Sec. equipment      11,411.10
Social subprojects equipment          10,347.71
Other consulting services                                      2,558.34
Subtotal         573,035.30         555,000    -18,035.3
(4) Operating Costs
(a) Salaries support                                            257,657.87
State Administration                 52,930.86
Federal Administration               158,792.57
Mostar City Administration           45,934.44
Subtotal         257,657.87         348,411     90,753.1
(b) Banking Supervision Agency                Subtotal          991,017.50         900,000    -91,017.5
Total        6,823,251.78       6,823,207
Source: PCU audited (1996 and 1997) and unaudited accounts (1998).



65
Table 4.4: IDA Credit and Grant (TF 24036 and TF 24037)
Category                    Structure of Expenditures                  Amount           Allocated      Balance
USD
(1) Goods
(a) under Part A(1)                                             133,017.70          133,100        82.3
ERP Equipment - Vehicles                    133,017.70
(b) under Part A(2)                                              306,508.35         306,600        91.7
ERP Equipment - Copiers and faxes          306,508.35
(c) under Part C                                              14,503,387.48       14,500,000    -3,387.5
Power sector Equipment                    6,817,285.54
Transport sector - Construction Eqp.      7,686,101.94
(d) under Part D                                               1,699,120.72        1,700,000      879.3
ERP Equipment - Vehicles                  1,075,632.94
ERP Equipment - Vehicles                   583,040.08
ERP Equipment - Copiers and faxes           26,384.30
Svjetlostcomerc                              10,088.60
Mastel Berox                                  3,974.80
Subtotal (1):    16,642,034.25
(2) Sub-loans under Part 8                                              15,496,612.62       15,500,000    3,387.6
(3) Consultants' services, training and studies
(a) under Part A(1)                                             118,403.81          118,500        96.2
Amold & Porter - Debt Legal Services        118,403.81
(c) under Part D                                                374,325.07          377,000     2,674.9
Forms - DES Sarajevo                        201,370.23
Monitoring of social impacts                172,954.84
Subtotal (3):      492,728.88
(4) Incremental operating costs - salaries supplement
(a) under Part A(1)                                            1,030,561.63        1,030,600       38.4
State Administration sal. supplement      1,030,561.63
(b) under Part A(2)                                            3,411,118.01        3,411,200       82.0
Federatal Administr. sal. supplement      3,411,118.01
(c) under Part D                                                422,471.62          423,000       528.4
Welfare offices salary supplement           422,471.62
Subtotal (4):    4,864,151.26
(5) Social benefits under Part D(1) of the Project                       7,504,449.37       7,500,000     4,449.4
Total:      44,999,976.2       45,000,000       23.7
Source: PCU audited (1996 and 1997) and unaudited accounts (1998).



66
Table 4.5: Canadian Grant (TF 24050)
Structure of Expenditures       Amount USO
Emergency Social Fund,               3,661,454.60
of which
Cash Benefits to Poorest    3,226,407.11
Social sub-projects      435,047.49
Total       3,661,454.60
Table 4.6: Swedish Grant (TF 24051)
Structure of Expenditures       Amount USD
Emergency Social Fund,                1,094,784.03
of which
Cash Benefts to Poorest       164,562.71
Social sub-projects      291,398.63
Foster parents cash support     638,822.69
Total       1,094,784.03
Table 4.7: Italian Grants (TF 24071 and TF 22072)
Structure of Expenditures       Amount USD
Emergency Social Fund,               3,290,745.45
of which
Cash Benefits to Poorest    2,478,388.91
Social sub-projects      183,998.22
Foster parents cash support     628,358.32
Total       3,290,745.45
Structure of Expenditures        Amount US
Credit Line                   T       5,263,507.64
Source: PCU audited (1996 and 1997) and unaudited accounts (1998).
PRodriguez
Q:APersonal\BosniaUCR June 23 99.DOC
06/24/99 9:46 AM



