Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF024051
Grant Agreement
(Economic Reconstruction Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Administrator of Grant Funds Provided by
Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency) 
Dated November 13, 1996
TF024051
GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 13, 1996 between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the 
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association), acting as 
Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the Swedish International 
Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA).
WHEREAS (A)  SIDA has agreed to provide grant funds to finance the emergency 
social fund component of the Economic Reconstruction Project;
(B)
SIDA has requested the Administrator, and the Administrator has agreed, 
to administer the grant funds;
(C)
the Administrator has established a trust fund (the Trust Fund) to 
receive and administer the grant funds; and
(D) 
 SIDA has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant (the Grant) 
out of said grant funds to finance the cost of carrying out the project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set 
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12), 
and (13), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), and (h), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,  and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International 
Development Association  acting as Administrator of the Grant, 
except that in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also 
include the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement," wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient to which 
the amount of the Grant is credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(vii)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations." and
(viii)Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of 
the Credit for a continuous period of thirty (30) days, or (b) at any 
Page  3
time, the Association determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Credit will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) 
at any time, the Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower 
or of 
a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or the 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth 
or 
referred to in the Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the 
Credit Account, or (f) the Association shall have received notice 
from 
the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of 
the 
Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower and the 
Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with 
respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of 
the 
Credit shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
(b) 
"MORSA" means the Ministry of Refugees and Social Affairs of the 
Federation;
(c)
"Sub-grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by municipalities 
out of the proceeds of the Grant to poor households and the disabled for poverty 
alleviation;
(d)
"Municipalities" means the municipalities of the Federation;
(e) 
"Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the 
Recipient and the Federation pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Grant Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
supplemental to the Subsidiary Grant Agreement; 
(f)
"DEM" means the Deutsche Mark, the currency of the Federal Republic of 
Germany; and 
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. (a) The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount 
equivalent to one million thirty one thousand two hundred fifty-one Dollars eleven 
cents ($1,031,251.11)
(b)
If further contributions by the SIDA to the Trust Fund shall be added to 
the Grant, the Administrator shall promptly inform the Recipient of the occurrence 
thereof.
(c)
The Administrator may invest the Grant, pending its disbursement, in any 
instrument in which the Administrator is authorized to invest its own funds.  The 
investment income shall be added to the Grant and shall be used to finance eligible 
expenditures in agreement with the Recipient, except in cases where the Administrator 
is precluded from doing so. 
Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Page  4
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for payments 
made or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made in respect of the eligible 
expenditures.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, satisfactory to the 
Administrator, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Administrator shall be obligated to effect payments to or on 
behalf of the Recipient from the Grant only to the extent that an amount adequate to 
cover such payments shall have been paid by the SIDA into the Trust Fund.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
the Federation to carry out the Project through MORSA, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement, as such Implementation Program shall be modified from time to time 
by the agreement of the Recipient and the Administrator.
Section 3.02. (a) For purposes of the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient 
shall provide the proceeds of the Grant to the Federation under a Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and the Federation under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Administrator, which shall include 
those described in the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as such Implementation Program shall be modified from time to time by the 
agreement of the Recipient and the Administrator.
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the 
Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant, and except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall cause the Federation to maintain records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of  the Federation responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall cause the Federation to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall cause 
the Federation to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Page  5
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as a condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, namely, that the Recipient shall have furnished to 
the Administrator evidence that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed with 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the 
Administrator dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence 
required by Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
Section 4.03. If, before dispatch to the Recipient of the notice referred to in 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement, any event shall have occurred which would have 
entitled the Administrator to suspend the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account if this Agreement had been effective, the Administrator may 
postpone the dispatch of said notice until such event or events shall have ceased to 
exist.
Section 4.04. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Danijela Ozme 7
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Administrator and the Bank:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Page  6
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ S. Alkalaj
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  (Acting as Administrator of Grant Funds provided by 
    Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency)
By /s/ C. Wallich
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
   Dollar equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-grants    
1,031,251.11
100% of amounts
under Part D
disbursed
of the Project
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) in respect of a Sub-grant unless the initial eligibility criteria 
and monthly eligibility criteria have been approved by the Administrator as set forth 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for all Sub-grants, under such terms and 
conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support poverty alleviation.
The Project consists of the following activity subject to such modifications as 
the Recipient and the Administrator may agree from time to time to achieve the above 
objective:
Support for the implementation of the Federation’s emergency social benefits 
program through provision of Sub-grants by Municipalities to poor households and the 
war-disabled for poverty alleviation.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
Page  7
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program 
Except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall agree, the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement shall contain the following Project implementation arrangements.
1.
The Project shall be carried out through MORSA with the assistance of the 
Municipalities.
2.
Sub-grants shall be made out of the proceeds of the Grant to provide minimal 
income to those individuals and households which are residents of the Federation and 
have no income earning capacity.  For the purpose of the Project, MORSA shall 
establish eligibility criteria for households based on total household income.  A 
higher eligibility criteria may be determined for Municipalities with higher income 
levels.
3.
Initial eligibility criteria shall be established at the beginning of the 
implementation of the Project.  The initial eligibility criteria shall be adjusted 
each month based on the total amount of Sub-grants provided, targeting an aggregate 
amount of disbursements in an amount equivalent to DEM 5,000,000 per month.  The 
initial eligibility criteria and monthly adjustments are to be determined in a manner 
satisfactory to the Administrator.
4.
The eligibility criteria and Sub-grant amounts shall be publicly announced.  The 
eligible households may apply to the social affairs sections of Municipalities for 
Sub-grants.  Applications shall be verified by the Municipalities through the 
information on income from pensions and all other available sources.  The 
documentation to prove the eligibility criteria and the Sub-grant amount provided for 
each household shall be recorded and maintained for the purpose of monitoring the 
implementation of the Project. These records will be subject to annual review by the 
Administrator.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Category" means the Category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $516,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
Page  8
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Administrator from the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish the Administrator within 
the period of time specified in Section 3.04 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Category minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, 
Page  9
including the General Conditions.
