Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
RELATED TO TF024050
Subsidiary Grant Agreement
(Economic Reconstruction Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Dated November 28, 1996
RELATED TO TF024050
SUBSIDIARY GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 28, 1996, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the 
Recipient) and the FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Federation). 
WHEREAS (A) by a Grant Agreement dated November 13, 1996, between the Recipient 
and the International Development Association acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of grant funds provided by the Canadian International Development 
Agency (CIDA), the Administrator has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant 
in an amount equivalent to five million Canadian Dollars (CDN 5,000,000) (the Grant) 
for carrying out of the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the 
Project);
(A) 
the Federation has agreed to implement the Project as described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and the Recipient has decided to make available the 
proceeds of the Grant to the Federation for purposes of the carrying out the said 
Project; and
(B)
the Recipient and the Federation, in consideration of the Administrator’s 
entry into the Grant Agreement with the Recipient, have agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Definitions
Section 1.01.  Wherever used in this Subsidiary Grant Agreement, unless the 
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Grant Agreement and 
the General Conditions as defined in Section 1.01 of the Grant Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
Section 1.02.  The provisions of the General Conditions and the terms and 
conditions of the Grant Agreement shall, mutatis mutandis, apply in full force and 
effect to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Subsidiary Grant 
Section 2.01. The Recipient shall make available to the Federation, on terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement, an amount equivalent to five million Canadian 
Dollars (CDN 5,000,000) (the Subsidiary Grant).
Section 2.02.  The Recipient shall cause the Ministry of Finance to open a Grant 
Account (the Subsidiary Grant Account) on its books in the name of the Federation and 
the amounts of the Subsidiary Grant shall be granted to the Subsidiary Grant Account.  
The Ministry of Finance or any person duly authorized by him is authorized to withdraw 
funds from said Subsidiary Grant Account for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03.  The right of the Federation to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Subsidiary Grant is subject to the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of 
the Grant.
Section 2.04.  (a) Upon the request of the Federation, the Recipient shall 
promptly make application for withdrawal from the Grant Account of amounts which the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw therefrom for expenditures by the Federation for the 
Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall open and thereafter maintain, for the benefit of the 
Federation, the Special Account in a commercial bank, satisfactory to the 
Administrator and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Administrator, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into and 
payments out of the Federation Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Federation shall furnish to the Recipient, for submission to the 
Administrator, all such documents as are required by the Grant Agreement or as shall 
be requested by the Administrator in order to enable the Recipient to make the 
withdrawal from the Grant Account requested by the Federation or enable the Recipient 
to request replenishment of the Special Account.
ARTICLE III
Obligations of the Federation
Section 3.01. The Federation shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices.
Section 3.02.  The Federation shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Federation shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Federation responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Federation shall:
 (i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for each Special Account for each fiscal 
year, audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator;
Page  3
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator or through the Recipient, as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Recipient 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Recipient such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Recipient shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Federation shall:
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Recipient has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Recipient's representatives, based on an appropriate 
notice, to examine such records; and 
 (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Obligations of the Recipient
Section 4.01. The Recipient shall take or cause to be taken all actions 
necessary or appropriate to enable the Federation to perform its obligations under 
this Agreement and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
ARTICLE V
Settlement of Disputes
Section 5.01.  Any dispute arising out of this Agreement or in connection 
therewith which cannot be amicably settled between the Recipient and the Federation 
shall be finally settled in the courts of the Recipient under the laws of the 
Recipient.
ARTICLE VI
Suspension; Cancellation
Section 6.01. If the right of the Recipient to disbursement from the Grant is 
suspended or terminated by the Administrator pursuant to the provisions of the Grant 
Agreement, the right of the Federation to disbursement from the Subsidiary Grant 
shall, likewise and simultaneously, be suspended or cancelled, as the case may be.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. This Agreement shall become effective on the date upon which the 
Grant Agreement becomes effective.
Section 7.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or to be 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties shall be in writing.
Page  4
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purpose of this 
Agreement:
For Bosnia and Herzegovina:
Ministry of Finance
Danijela Ozme 7
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina:
Ministry of Finance of the Federation
Borise Kovacevica
(Zgrada SDK)
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
If the above addresses and/or names are changed, the party concerned shall 
immediately notify the other party hereto in writing of the new addresses and/or 
names.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND 
    HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Muratovic
By /s/ Kapetanovic
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support poverty alleviation.
The Project consists of the following activity subject to such modifications as 
the Recipient and the Administrator may agree from time to time to achieve the above 
objective:
Support for the implementation of the Federation’s emergency social benefits 
program through provision of Sub-grants by Municipalities to poor households and the 
war-disabled for poverty alleviation.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program 
1.
The Project shall be carried out through MORSA with the assistance of the 
Municipalities.
2.
Sub-grants shall be made out of the proceeds of the Grant to provide minimal 
income to those individuals and households which are residents of the Federation and 
have no income earning capacity.  For the purpose of the Project, MORSA shall 
establish eligibility criteria for households based on total household income.  A 
higher eligibility criteria may be determined for Municipalities with higher income 
levels.
3.
Initial eligibility criteria shall be established at the beginning of the 
Page  5
implementation of the Project.  The initial eligibility criteria shall be adjusted 
each month based on the total amount of Sub-grants provided, targeting an aggregate 
amount of disbursements in an amount equivalent to DEM 5,000,000 per month.  The 
initial eligibility criteria and monthly adjustments are to be determined in a manner 
satisfactory to the Administrator.
4.
The eligibility criteria and Sub-grant amounts shall be publicly announced.  The 
eligible households may apply to the social affairs sections of Municipalities for 
Sub-grants.  Applications shall be verified by the Municipalities through the 
information on income from pensions and all other available sources.  The 
documentation to prove the eligibility criteria and the Sub-grant amount provided for 
each household shall be recorded and maintained for the purpose of monitoring the 
implementation of the Project. These records will be subject to annual review by the 
Administrator.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Category" means Category (1) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,800,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Administrator from the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Page  6
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish the Administrator within 
the period of time specified in Section 3.04 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Category minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
