Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF024010 
Grant Agreement
(Priority Reconstruction Program)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Administrator of 
Grant Funds Provided by Multiple Donors) 
Dated July 23, 1996
TF024010
GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 23, 1996, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Recipient) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association), acting as 
Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the donors referred to in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the Donors and each a Donor)
WHEREAS (A)  the Donors have agreed to provide the grant funds to finance 
priority reconstruction expenditures for the economic and social development of the 
Recipient;
(B)
the Donors have requested the Administrator, and the Administrator has 
agreed, to administer the grant funds;
(C)
the Administrator has established a trust fund (the Trust Fund) to 
receive and administer the grant funds; and
(D) 
 the Donors have agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant (the 
Grant) out of said grant funds to finance the cost of carrying out the project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project) on the terms and conditions 
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12), 
and (13), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), and (h), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,  and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the 
International 
Development Association  acting as 
Administrator of the Grant, 
except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Association" shall also 
include the International 
Development Association acting in its 
own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement," wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient to 
which 
the amount of the Grant is credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(vii)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for 
goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations."
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
Page  3
(b) 
"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of the Recipient which is to be 
established as the successor to the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
(c)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement;
(d) 
"Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the 
Recipient and the Federation pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Grant Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
supplemental to the Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and 
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. (a) The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount 
equivalent to five million three hundred sixty four thousand three hundred sixty-four 
United States Dollars and twelve cents ($5,364,364.12).
(b)
If further contributions by the Donors to the Trust Fund shall be added 
to the Grant, the Administrator shall promptly inform the Recipient of the occurrence 
thereof.
(c)
The Administrator may invest the Grant, pending its disbursement, in any 
instrument in which the Administrator is authorized to invest its own funds.  The 
investment income shall be added to the Grant and shall be used to finance eligible 
expenditures in agreement with the Recipient, except in cases where the Administrator 
is precluded from doing so. 
Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for payments 
made or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made in respect of the eligible 
expenditures.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, satisfactory to the 
Administrator, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Administrator shall be obligated to effect payments to or on 
behalf of the Recipient from the Grant only to the extent that an amount adequate to 
cover such payments shall have been paid by the Donors into the Trust Fund.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
the Federation to carry out the Project through its Ministry of Finance, and such 
other ministries and agencies as agreed with the Administrator, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement, as such Implementation Program shall be modified from time to time 
by the agreement of the Recipient and the Administrator.
Section 3.02. (a) For purposes of the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient 
shall provide the proceeds of the Grant to the Federation under a Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and the Federation under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Administrator, which shall include 
those described in the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as such Implementation Program shall be modified from time to time by the 
agreement of the Recipient and the Administrator.
Page  4
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the 
Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant, and except at the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03.  The Recipient shall maintain a PCU under terms of reference and 
with staffing and other resources acceptable to the Administrator. The PCU shall be 
headed by a director and shall have the overall responsibility for Project 
coordination, including coordination of the carrying out of the Project by the 
Ministry of Finance of the Federation, Electroprivreda, and such other ministries and 
agencies and institutions of the Federation as agreed with the Administrator.
Section 3.04. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Recipient shall or shall cause the Federation to maintain 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Recipient or the Federation responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall or shall cause the Federation to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall or 
shall cause the Federation to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support 
the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as a condition to the 
Page  5
effectiveness of this Agreement, namely, that the Recipient shall have furnished to 
the Administrator evidence that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed with 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the 
Administrator dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence 
required by Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
Section 4.03. If, before dispatch to the Recipient of the notice referred to in 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement, any event shall have occurred which would have 
entitled the Administrator to suspend the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account if this Agreement had been effective, the Administrator may 
postpone the dispatch of said notice until such event or events shall have ceased to 
exist.
Section 4.04. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Mehmeda Spahe 5
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Administrator and the Bank:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By  /s/ M. Kikanovic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  (Acting as Administrator of Grant Funds 
    Provided by Multiple Donors)
By  /s/ C. Wallich
Page  6
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
3,156,391.85
100% of foreign  
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 
85% of local 
expendi- tures 
for 
other items 
procured locally
(2)
Civil works
              668,399.77
100% (net of  taxes)
(3)
Consultants'  
      1,321,779.32
100%
services
(4)
Salaries 
        217,793.18
100%
TOTAL
      5,364,364.12
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient 
provided, however, that the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country 
from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such 
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) expenditures for goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent each; and (b) contracts for employment 
of consultants not exceeding $250,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions 
as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
The percentage specified for expenditures under Category (2) in the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 has been calculated on the assumption that no taxes are collected 
on works.  If any change occurs, which has the effect of levying and collecting taxes 
in relation to the item under Category (1), the Administrator shall have the power to 
decrease the percentage referred to above accordingly.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to help rehabilitate and restore the 
Federation’s severely damaged productive capacity and infrastructure facility, to 
initiate production and economic activities in a war-devastated economy and to assist 
in the establishment of a minimum level of institutional framework for country 
governance and policy formulation necessary for an effective implementation of the 
Federation’s reconstruction program.
Page  7
The Project consists of the following activities subject to such modifications 
as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree from time to time to achieve the 
above objectives.
Part A:
Support for the establishment and functioning of key ministries and governmental 
institutions of the Federation, through the provision of office equipment, including 
telecommunications facilities and computers; the repair and refurbishing of 
administration buildings; and the provision of technical assistance and salary 
supplements to the personnel of said governmental institutions to strengthen their 
capacity for effective governance and Project implementation.
Part B:
Provision of critical inputs to the power sector of the Federation.
*  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable:
Part B:  International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Section II of the Guidelines shall be modified to provide that: (i) the General 
Procurement Notice (GPN) shall also be published in the local press; (ii) individual 
advertisement for specific contracts shall also be published in the local press; (iii) 
the period allowed for submission of bids shall be four (4) weeks; and (iv) bid and 
payment currency shall be limited to one currency widely used in international trade.
3.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Part B, 
namely, that the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods: (i) estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more but less than 
$5,000,000 equivalent per contract; or (ii) which the Bank agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.  In addition, the list of suppliers shall be derived from, inter alia, 
the expressions of interest received in response to the GPN. Bidding documents may 
provide that the bidders may send their bids by fax, in which case, bid security shall 
not be required, subject to the satisfaction of the Trustee that mechanisms to ensure 
confidentiality of bids received by fax are in place. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines and using 
Page  8
standard documentation agreed with the Administrator.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods and works which should be procured as an extension of an existing contract 
or must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing 
equipment or are of a proprietary nature or which must be urgently procured, may, with 
the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines with the following modifications:
(i)
general prequalification will be carried out through advertising 
in the local press.  The list of prequalified bidders will 
be 
updated from time to time as a result of new expression of 
interest and information submitted by qualified contractors;
(ii)
prequalified bidders will be allowed a minimum of four (4) weeks 
to submit their bids;
(iii)
bidding documents will follow the formats of the National 
Competitive Bidding documents agreed with the Administrator;
(iv)
if interested, foreign bidders will be allowed to submit bids;
(v)
bids will be submitted in sealed envelopes, and both mailed and 
hand-carried bids will be accepted;
(vi)
all bids will be opened at the same time in public;
(vii)
contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; and
(viii)bidders will not be asked, nor allowed, to change the substance of 
their bids after the bid closing date, and price negotiations with 
the lowest evaluated bidder will be confined to those cases listed 
in the Guidelines.
7.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 per contract, may be procured under 
lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to successfully complete the contract.
8.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods may be procured from UN agencies such as FAO, ILO, UNICEF and WHO in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
Part D:  Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of: (i) Section I, Parts B, C.1 and C.4 of this Schedule; and (ii) the 
prequalification criteria and documentation to be included in the invitation to 
prequalify under Section I, Part C.5 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  9
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Administrator.  
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other 
standard forms acceptable to the Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consultants 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to 
prior Administrator review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such 
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a 
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Administrator, or (d) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of consultants raising the contract value to $500,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program 
Except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall agree, the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement shall contain the following Project implementation arrangements.
1.
The Federation shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Finance, 
Electroprivreda, and such other ministries and agencies as agreed with the 
Administrator, with due diligence and efficiency and for this purpose shall coordinate 
with the PCU.
2.
For the purpose of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, the Federation shall:  
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Federation and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of  the Project; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Federation on said plan.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Category" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  10
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. 
On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Administrator from the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish the Administrator within 
the period of time specified in Section 3.04 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Category minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
Page  11
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Donors and Contributions
(Expressed in United States Dollar Equivalent)
Donor
Contributions
Switzerland
5,364,364.12
1.
Contributions in a currency other than United States dollar shall be converted 
into United States Dollars immediately upon receipt thereof by the Administrator.
2.
Upon conversion into United States Dollars by the Administrator of all 
contributions in currencies other than United States Dollars, (such contributions, 
together with contributions in United States Dollars, being hereafter collectively 
referred to as the "Contributions"), the Administrator shall, for purposes of 
defraying its own administrative costs, pay itself an amount equivalent to two percent 
(2%) of the amount of the Grant for activities implemented by the Recipient, and the 
investment income will be added to the account to be used for purposes of the Trust 
Fund.
