Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF024030 BH
Trust Fund Credit and Grant Agreement
(Emergency Recovery Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(Acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina)
Dated March 1, 1996
TF024030 BH
TRUST FUND CREDIT AND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 1996 between BOSNIA and HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,  acting as trustee (the Trustee) of a trust 
fund established by Resolution of its Board of Executive Directors.
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, acting on the recommendation of its Board of Executive Directors, 
decided on February 23, 1996, to transfer from surplus, by way of grant, $150,000,000 
to a trust fund (the Trust Fund), established by Resolutions of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank (Resolution No. 96-1) and the Association (Resolution No. IDA 
96-1) and to be administered by the Association, to be used for financing an emergency 
reconstruction program in the Borrower;
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Trustee to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Trust Fund Agreement (the Project);
(C)
the Credit and the Grant provided under this Trust Fund Credit and Grant 
Agreement (Trust Fund Agreement) from the proceeds of the Trust Fund shall be 
allocated exclusively for financing activities to be carried out under the Project, 
and the Borrower intends, with the assistance of the Trustee, to secure the funds 
required for the carrying out of other activities under the Project through 
contributions from other donors; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
extend the Credit and the Grant to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
Page  2
forth in this Trust Fund Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Trust Fund Agreement and the General Conditions set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Trust Fund Agreement, have the respective meanings therein set 
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
(b)
"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of the Borrower which is to be 
established as the successor to the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
(c)
"FBSA" means the banking supervisory authority of the Federation;
(d)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established pursuant to Section 
6.01(a) of this Trust Fund Agreement;
(e)
"Subsidiary Finance Agreement" means the agreement entered into between 
the Borrower and the Federation pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Trust Fund 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary Finance Agreement;
(f)
"Subsidiary Finance" means the loan and grant made pursuant to the 
Subsidiary Finance Agreement;
(g)
"Participating Financial Institution" or "PFI" means any bank or other 
credit institutions established and operating in accordance with the laws and 
regulations of the Borrower and approved by the FBSA for participation in the Project 
selected by the Borrower on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Trustee for 
purposes of administering Sub-loans out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(h)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement entered into between the 
Federation, through the PCU, and a PFI pursuant to this Trust Fund Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(i)
"Subsidiary Loan" means any loan made pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;
(j)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a PFI out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project;
(k)
"Sub-project" means a specific development project to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(l)
"Beneficiary" means any eligible small- and medium-sized enterprise or 
microenterprise duly established and operating under the laws of the Borrower to which 
a PFI proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(m)
"private enterprise" means any commercial entity registered according to 
the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower, in which the management is not 
directly or indirectly controlled by the Borrower, and more than 50% of the 
proprietary interest is held by persons or entities other than the Borrower, the local 
authorities or any subdivision thereof, or entities controlled by the Borrower;  
(n)
"Co-financier" means any donor providing the Borrower with a loan or 
grant to assist in financing the Project;
(o)
"Co-financing Agreements" means the agreements to be concluded between 
the  Borrower and the Co-financiers;
(p)
"DEM" means Deutsche Marks; and
(q)
"Special Account" means the account or accounts referred to in Section 
2.02(b) of this Trust Fund Agreement.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Credit and the Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees: (a) to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Trust Fund Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), and (b) to make 
available to the Borrower, on a grant basis, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the Grant may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account and the Grant Account, respectively, in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Trust Fund Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if 
the Trustee shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by a PFI on account of withdrawals 
made by a Beneficiary under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Sub-project under Part B of the Project in respect of which 
the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or if 
the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit and in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for 
Parts A and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars  special deposit accounts for the Credit and the Grant in a commercial bank or 
the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina or any successor thereto on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Trust 
Fund Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Trustee a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Trustee as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Trust Fund Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on 
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Trust Fund Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Trustee 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Trust Fund 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Trustee a service charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 
2006 and ending October 15, 2035.  Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on October 15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and 
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Trust Fund Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part A(1) of the Project through its Ministry of Finance, and such 
other ministries and agencies as agreed with the Trustee, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 
to this Trust Fund Agreement, as such Implementation Program shall be modified from 
time to time by the agreement of the Borrower and the Trustee.
Section 3.02. (a) For purposes of the carrying out by the Federation of Parts 
A(2), B, C and D of the Project, the Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the 
Credit and make available part of the proceeds of the Grant to the Federation under a 
Subsidiary Finance Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Federation under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Trustee, 
which shall include those described in the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Trust Fund Agreement, as such Implementation Program shall be 
modified from time to time by the agreement of the Borrower and the Trustee.
(b)
The Borrower shall lend the portion of the Subsidiary Finance which is 
from the proceeds of the Credit to the Federation on the same terms and conditions as 
the Credit as set forth in Sections 2.04, 2.05, 2.06 and 2.07 of this Trust Fund 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Trustee 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except at the Trustee shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Finance Agreement or any provision thereof.
 Section 3.03. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree,  procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Trust Fund Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purpose of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Trustee, a 
plan for the future operation of Part A(1) of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause the Federation to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower and the Federation responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall and shall cause the Federation to:
 (i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for each Special Account for each fiscal 
year, audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall from 
Page  5
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account and the Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall or shall cause the Federation to:
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account and the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives, based on an appropriate 
notice, to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the proce\1fduresand internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (g) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that subject to paragraph (b) of this 
paragraph: (i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or (ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to 
the agreed maturity thereof.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Trustee that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any 
of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Trust Fund Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. For purposes of Section 12.03 of the General Conditions, the 
following events are specified as conditions to the effectiveness of this Trust Fund 
Agreement: 
(a)
the PCU shall have been established under terms of reference and with 
staffing and other resources satisfactory to the Trustee; and
(b)
the Subsidiary Finance Agreement shall have been executed with terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Trustee.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Trustee, namely, that the Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and the Federation in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Trust Fund 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  6
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Trustee:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
   197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
   248423 (RCA),
    64145 (WUI) or
    82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Trust Fund Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Washington, D.C. as of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Mirsad Kikanovic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina)
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Credit and the Grant, the allocations of the amount of the Credit and the Grant to 
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in (Expressed in Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed
(1)
Goods
100% of 
foreign 
(a) under Part A(1)
0
160,000
expenditures,
of the Project
100% of local
expenditures
Page  7
(b) under Part A(2)
0
    1,840,000 (ex-factory
of the Project
cost) and 85% 
of local
(c) under Part C
   15,000,000
   0
expenditures
of the Project
for other 
items
procured 
locally
(d) under Part D
0
    2,300,000
of the Project
(2)
Sub-loans under 
   15,000,000
   0
100% of amounts
Part B of the Project
disbursed
(3)
Consultants’ services,
100%
training and studies
(a) under Part A(1)
0
 80,000 
     of the Project
(b) under Part A(2)
0
920,000
     of the Project
(c) under Part D(2)
0
700,000
     of the Project
(4)
Incremental
100%
operating costs
(a) under Part A(1)
0
650,000
of the Project
(b) under Part A(2)
0
    1,350,000
of the Project
(5)
Social benefits under
0
    7,000,000 100%
Part D(1) of the Project
TOTAL
   30,000,000    15,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the costs of incremental 
staff, facilities, services and other resources required to implement Parts A and D of 
the Project as may be agreed with the Trustee.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the 
Attachment to the Annex to Schedule 4 to this Trust Fund Agreement; and
(b) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Trust 
Fund Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $3,000,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) (c) on account of 
payments made for expenditures for critical inputs for the agricultural sector before 
that date but after November 1, 1995.
4.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Grant 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for (a) expenditures for 
goods and for payments made by a PFI under Sub-loans under contracts not exceeding 
$5,000,000 equivalent; and (b) contracts not exceeding $250,000 equivalent each for 
employment of consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to help rehabilitate and restore the 
Borrower’s and the Federation’s severely damaged productive capacity and 
infrastructure facility, to initiate production and economic activities in a 
war-devastated economy and to assist in the establishment of a minimum level of 
institutional framework for country governance and policy formulation necessary for an 
effective implementation of the Borrower’s and the Federation’s emergency 
reconstruction program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives.
Part A:
Institutional Support
(1)
Support for the establishment and functioning of key ministries and governmental 
institutions of the Borrower, including, inter alia, the Central Bank, through the 
provision of salaries, office equipment, including telecommunications facilities and 
computers; the repair and refurbishing of administrative buildings; and the provision 
of technical assistance to the personnel of said ministries and governmental 
institutions to strengthen their capacity for effective governance and project 
implementation.
(2)
Support for the establishment and functioning of key ministries and governmental 
institutions of the Federation through the provision of salaries, office equipment, 
including telecommunications facilities and computers; the repair and refurbishing of 
administrative buildings; and the provision of technical assistance to the personnel 
of said ministries and governmental institutions to strengthen their capacity for 
effective governance.
Part B:
Credit Facilities
(1)
The establishment and operation by the Federation of a credit facility for the 
financing, through the provision of Sub-loans by PFIs to Beneficiaries, of specific 
development projects and associated working capital in the production and processing 
sectors.
(2)
Provision of technical assistance and training to the personnel of PFIs to 
strengthen their credit evaluation capacity.
Part C:
Critical Inputs 
(1)
Provision of critical inputs to the agricultural sector, the power sector, and 
the transport sector of the Federation.
(2)
Provision of technical assistance and training to the personnel of the 
governmental ministries and institutions of the Federation responsible for food 
management and the monitoring of domestic farm and food production to strengthen their 
capabilities in said activities, and the carrying out of studies on the management of 
food aid.
Part D:
Emergency Social Benefits Program
(1)
Carrying out by the Federation of an emergency social benefits action plan for 
orphans, through the provision of equipment and materials to improve institutional 
care in orphanages, and for persons with war-related disabilities, through the 
provision of rehabilitation equipment and retraining.
(2)
Support for the establishment and implementation of an emergency social benefits 
program in the Federation through the provision of salaries and computer, 
communications and transport equipment for and technical assistance to the personnel 
of the Ministry of Refugees and Social Affairs of the Federation and other entities of 
the Federation responsible for the delivery of benefits under said emergency social 
benefits program.
*  *  *
Page  9
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Section II of the Guidelines shall be modified to provide that: (i) a General 
Procurement Notice (GPN) shall also be published in the local press; (ii) individual 
advertisement for specific contracts shall also be published in the local press; (iii) 
the period allowed for submissions of bids shall be four (4) weeks; and (iv) bid and 
payment currency shall be limited to one currency widely used in international trade.
3.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Part B, 
namely, that the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods: (i) estimated to cost more than $2,000,000 equivalent but less than 
$5,000,000 equivalent per contract; or (ii) which the Trustee agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.  In addition, the list of suppliers shall be derived from, inter alia, 
the expressions of interest received in response to the GPN.  Bidding documents may 
provide that the bidders can send their bids by fax, in which case, bid security will 
not be required.  Furthermore, the entity responsible for procurement will be required 
to put in place mechanisms to ensure confidentiality of bids received by fax.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines and using 
standard documentation agreed with the Trustee.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods which should be procured as an extension of an existing contract, or must 
be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or 
are of a proprietary nature or which must be urgently procured, may, with the 
Trustee’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of  paragraph 
3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods may be procured from UN agencies such as FAO, ILO, UNICEF and WHO in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
Page  10
6.
Under Part B of the Project
Goods shall be procured at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other 
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods 
and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts thereof and the quality and 
the competence of the parties providing them.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of: (i) Section I, Part B of this Schedule; (ii) Part C. 1(ii) of this Schedule; and 
(iii) Part C. 4 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Recipients and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Trustee, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Trustee.  Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Trustee, other 
standard forms acceptable to the Trustee shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consultants estimated to 
cost less than $500,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Trustee 
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) 
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as 
reasonably determined by the Trustee, or (d) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of consultants raising the contract value to $500,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program 
A.
Project Management
The Borrower shall maintain, for purposes of Part A(1) of the Project, and shall 
cause the Federation to maintain, for purposes of Parts A(2), B, C and D of the 
Project, the PCU under terms of reference and with staffing and other resources 
acceptable to the Trustee. The PCU shall be headed by a director and shall have 
overall responsibility for Project management and coordination, including coordination 
of the carrying out of the Project by the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower and by 
Ministry of Finance of the Federation and such other ministries, agencies and 
institutions of the Borrower and the Federation as agreed with the Trustee.
B.
Credit Facilities (Part B of the Project)
1.
Except as the Borrower and the Trustee shall agree, the Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement shall contain the following Project implementation arrangements for purposes 
of Part B of the Project. The Federation shall maintain or cause to be maintained: (a) 
a separate credit line section within the PCU, with staff and other resources and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, to be responsible for the carrying out 
of said Part B of the Project; and (b) arrangements, satisfactory to the Trustee, with 
the FBSA pursuant to which the FBSA shall assist the Federation in determining the 
compliance by the PFIs with the conditions set forth in Part B of the Annex to this 
Schedule.
2.
The Federation shall through the PCU:
(a)
relend to the PFIs the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
Page  11
from time to time to Category (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Trust Fund Agreement under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into 
between the Federation and each such PFI, under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Trustee, and which shall include, without limitation, those set 
forth in the Annex to this Schedule;
(b)
monitor the overall execution of Part B of the Project and the carrying 
out by the PFIs of their obligations under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee;
(c)
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part 
to enable the PFIs to perform in accordance with the provisions of their respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements all the obligations of the PFIs therein set forth, and not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance; and
(d)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Trustee and the Borrower and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive any such Agreement or any provision thereof.
3.
Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Federation shall in respect of 
repayments of principal of each Subsidiary Loan utilized in the making of Sub-loans 
under the Project:
(a)
open and maintain, in a bank, acceptable to the Trustee, an account on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee; and
(b)
upon receipt of each such repayment, credit the same to said account. All 
amounts to be so credited shall be utilized, to the extent they are not required to 
meet the Federation’s repayment obligations under the Subsidiary Finance Agreement, 
exclusively to finance, through the PFIs, specific projects on similar terms and 
conditions as those applicable to the Sub-loans made out of the Subsidiary Loan so 
repaid and credited to said account. The Federation shall maintain said account and 
credit and utilize said repayments of the Subsidiary Loan utilized in the making of 
Sub-loans under the Project until December 31, 2000.
C.
Critical Inputs (Part C of the Project)
Except as the Borrower and the Trustee shall agree, the Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement shall contain, for purposes of Part C of the Project:
1.
the implementation responsibilities of the responsible ministries and 
insitutions with respect to each of the sectors to which inputs to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit under said Part C of the Project are to be provided; and
2.
the cost recovery mechanisms in respect of the inputs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit under said Part C of the Project.
D.
Reporting
Except as the Borrower and the Trustee shall agree, the Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement shall provide, for the purpose of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, 
and without limitation thereto, that the Federation shall:
1.
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and furnish to 
the Trustee not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Federation and the Trustee, a plan for the 
future operation of Part A(2) and D of the Project; and
2.
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Federation on said plan.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms and Conditions of 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule shall apply for 
the purposes of paragraph 2(a) of Part B of this Schedule 4.
A.
Terms
Page  12
1.
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Credit to a PFI 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be denominated in DEM and be the 
equivalent of the aggregate amount of the principal of all Sub-loans made out of the 
proceeds thereof.
2.
The Subsidiary Loan shall be: (a) charged monthly, quarterly or semiannually, on 
the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at 
the Base Rate, as shall be adjusted from time to time in agreement with the Trustee; 
and (b) repaid in accordance with an amortization schedule pursuant to which each 
portion thereof utilized in the making of a Sub-loan shall have a maturity calculated 
to conform to the amortization schedule applicable to such Sub-loan. For purposes of 
this Annex, Base Rate means LIBOR minus three percent (3%).
3.
The right of a PFI to the use of the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Loan 
shall be: (a) suspended upon failure of such PFI to perform any of its obligations 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with 
all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its operations; and (b) terminated 
if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a 
continuous period of 60 days.
B.
Conditions
1.
A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a PFI, which the 
Federation, with the assistance of the FBSA, pursuant to the arrangements referred to 
in paragraph 1(b) of Part B of this Schedule 4, shall have determined, and the Trustee 
shall have agreed, that such PFI:
(a)
is duly established and licensed by FBSA to operate in the Federation;
(b)
except as otherwise agreed with the Trustee, has been in existence for at 
least two years;
(c)
is operating pursuant to investment and lending policies and procedures 
which the Trustee and the FBSA shall have judged acceptable, and has undertaken to 
maintain said policies and procedures;
(d)
except as otherwise agreed with the Trustee, has capital of at least DEM 
2,500,000 or has a plan acceptable to the Trustee and the FBSA to achieve minimum 
capital in accordance with applicable prudential regulations; and
(e)
is in compliance with applicable prudential regulations as determined by 
the FBSA.
2.
Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to 
which each respective PFI shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out activities under Part B of the Project and conduct its 
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and 
practices, with qualified management and staff in adequate numbers, and in conformity 
with the investment and lending policies and procedures referred to in paragraph 1 (c) 
hereof, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the purpose;
(b)
(i) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Attachment to this Annex; (ii) exercise its rights in relation to each such 
Sub-loan in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Borrower, 
the Federation and the Trustee, comply with its obligations under its respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and achieve the purposes of Part B of the Project; (iii) not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for Sub-loans, or any 
provision thereof, without prior approval of the Federation; and (iv) appraise 
Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out by Beneficiaries of 
Sub-projects, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Trustee and the 
Federation;
(c)
maintain, with staff and other resources and terms of reference, 
satisfactory to the Trustee and the Federation: (i) a credit committee to be 
responsible for the evaluation and approval of Sub-loan applications; and (ii) a 
technical unit to be responsible for the appraisal and supervision of the carrying out 
of Sub-projects;
(d)
(i) exchange views with, and furnish all such information to the Trustee 
Page  13
or the PCU, as may be reasonably requested by the Trustee, the Federation or the PCU, 
with regard to the progress of its activities under Part B of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of Part B of the Project; and (ii) promptly 
inform the Trustee and the PCU of any condition which interferes or threatens to 
interfere with the progress of its activities under its respective Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;
(e) 
(i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition; (ii) have its 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Trustee; 
(iii) furnish to the Trustee, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, certified copies of said financial 
statements and accounts for such year as so audited, and the report of such audit by 
said auditors in such scope and detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; 
and (iv) furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request; and
(f)
assume a portion of the credit risk of each Sub-loan, as determined 
pursuant to guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, in the event the Beneficiary of the 
respective Sub-loan fails to repay all amounts due on the Sub-loan. 
ATTACHMENT TO THE ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of the Sub-loans
The provisions of this Attachment shall be for the purposes of paragraph 2 (b) 
(i) of Part B of the Annex to this Schedule 4.
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to Category (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Trust Fund Agreement shall: (a) be denominated in DEM, and be the 
equivalent in DEM (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the currency 
or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of goods and works 
financed out of such proceeds for Sub-loans under Part B of the Project; and (b) not 
exceed the equivalent of DEM 300,000.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be: (a) charged monthly, quarterly or semiannually, on the 
principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at the 
Base Rate (as defined in paragraph A.2 of the Annex to this Schedule 4), plus a margin 
not to exceed 7%; (b) made for a period of not more than two years, but not less than 
two months; (c) repaid, in respect of interest on the outstanding principal balance of 
the Sub-loan, monthly, quarterly or semi-annually as determined by the PFI in 
accordance with its investment and lending policies; and (d) repaid, in respect of the 
principal balance of the Sub-loan disbursed and outstanding, in a single maturity.
3.
No expenditures for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of a Sub-loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been approved by the Trustee 
and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days prior to the date 
on which the Trustee shall have received the application and information required 
under paragraph 4 (a) of this Attachment in respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan 
(as hereinafter defined) for which the Trustee shall have authorized withdrawals from 
the Credit Account and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 
days prior to the date on which the Trustee shall have received the request and 
information required under paragraph 4 (b) of this Attachment in respect of such 
free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes hereof, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a 
Sub-loan for a Sub-project to be made by each respective PFI in an amount to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum determined 
from time to time by the Trustee and notified to the Federation and each such 
respective PFI.
4.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan, other than a free-limit Sub-loan, to the 
Trustee for approval, the PFI shall furnish to the Trustee, through the PCU, an 
application, in a form satisfactory to the Trustee, together with: (i) a description 
Page  14
of the Beneficiary; (ii) the appraisal of the Sub-project, including a description of 
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (iii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization 
therefor; and (iv) any such other information as the Trustee shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description 
of the Beneficiary and the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) the terms and 
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Trustee not 
later than June 30, 1997.
5.
Sub-loans shall be made to Beneficiaries who each shall have established to the 
satisfaction of the PFI making the Sub-loan, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Trustee that:
(a)
except as otherwise agreed with the Trustee, it has been in existence for 
at least two years;
(b)
it is engaged in agro-processing, manufacturing or other economic 
activity that supports the restoration of food-processing and industrial production;
(c)
it is a private enterprise or has a plan to become a private enterprise; 
and
(d)
it is creditworthy, and has a satisfactory financial structure and the 
organization, management, staff and financial and other resources required for the 
efficient carrying out of its operations, including the carrying out of the 
Sub-project.
6.
Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each determined, on the basis 
of an appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Trustee, 
to be:
(a)
technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially 
viable, with an expected financial rate of return of not less than 15%;
(b)
capable of being implemented and made operational within a period of not 
more than six (6) months; and
(c)
in compliance with environmental standards satisfactory to the Trustee 
and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations of the Federation relating 
to health, safety and environmental protection.
7.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the PFI making the Sub-loan shall 
obtain, by written contract or other appropriate means, rights adequate to protect its 
interest and those of the Federation and the Trustee, including the right to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, economic, financial and 
commercial practices, to maintain adequate records, and to provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
(b)
require that the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Trust 
Fund Agreement, and that such goods and services be used exclusively in the carrying 
out of the Sub-project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Trustee or the 
PCU on behalf of the Federation if the Trustee, the Federation or the PCU shall so 
request, the goods and the sites, works, plans and construction included in the 
Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice, including such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
Page  15
(e)
carry out and operate the Sub-project in accordance with appropriate 
health, safety and environmental standards, satisfactory to the Trustee;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Trustee, the Federation or the PCU 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be 
derived from the Sub-project; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit or the Grant upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the PFI.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (c) and (2) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Trust Fund Agreement with respect to 
the Credit Account, and Categories (1) (a),(b) and (d), (3) and (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Trust Fund Agreement with respect to the 
Grant Account;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the amount of the Credit and the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Trust Fund 
Agreement, provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) 
of the Attachment to the Annex to Schedule 4 to this Trust Fund Agreement, payments 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may be 
made out of the Special Account before the Trustee shall have authorized withdrawals 
from the Credit Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify 
as eligible expenditures only if the Trustee shall subsequently authorize such 
withdrawals; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule and an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that any Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the respective Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of any Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit into the respective Special Account 
of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of each Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Grant Account 
and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Page  16
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Trustee from the Credit Account and the Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of each Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account or the 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Trust Fund Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the 
period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Trust Fund Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for said Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the Grant allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of any outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
respective Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Grant Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
said Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Trustee into said Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in said Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in said Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Grant Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Trust Fund Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
General Conditions 
ARTICLE I
Page  17
Application to Trust Fund Credit and Grant Agreement
Section 1.01. Application of General Conditions. Without limitation or 
restriction upon the scope of any provision of the Trust Fund Credit and Grant 
Agreement, these General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Trust Fund Credit and Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Definitions; Headings
Section 2.01. Definitions. The following terms have the following meanings 
wherever used in these General Conditions:
1.
"Trustee" means the International Development Association, acting as trustee of 
the Trust Fund.
2.
"Association" means the International Development Association.
3.
"Bank" means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
4.
"Trust Fund Agreement" means the Trust Fund Credit and Grant Agreement to which 
these General Conditions are made applicable.
5.
"Credit" means the Trust Fund Credit provided for in the Trust Fund Agreement.
6.
"Grant" means the Trust Fund Grant provided for in the Trust Fund Agreement.
7.
"Borrower" means Bosnia and Herzegovina.
8.
"Currency" of a country means the coin or currency which is legal tender for the 
payment of public and private debts in that country.
9.
"Dollars" and the sign "$" mean dollars in the currency of the United States of 
America.
11.
"Grant Account" means the account opened by the Trustee on its books in the name 
of the Borrower to which the amount of the Grant is credited.
12.
"Project" means the project for which the Credit and Grant are granted, as 
described in the Trust Fund Agreement and as the description thereof may be amended 
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Trustee.
13.
"external debt" means any debt which is or may become payable other than in the 
currency of the country which is the Borrower.
14.
"Effective Date" means the date on which the Trust Fund Agreement shall enter 
into effect as provided in Section 12.03.
15.
"Taxes" includes imposts, levies, fees and duties of any nature, whether in 
effect at the date of the Trust Fund Agreement or thereafter imposed.
16.
"Closing Date" means the date specified in the Trust Fund Agreement (as it may 
be extended) after which the Trustee may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the 
right of the Borrower to withdraw from the Credit Account and the Grant Account.
Section 2.02. References. References in these General Conditions to Articles or 
Sections are to Articles or Sections of these General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Headings. The headings of the Articles and Sections are inserted 
for convenience of reference only and are not a part of these General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Credit Account and Grant Account;
Service Charges; Repayment; Place of Payment
Section 3.01. Credit Account and Grant Account. The amount of the Credit shall 
be credited to the Credit Account and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Borrower as 
provided in the Trust Fund Agreement and in these General Conditions. The amount of 
the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be withdrawn therefrom by the 
Page  18
Borrower as provided in the Trust Fund Agreement and in these General Conditions.
Section 3.02. Service Charges. The Borrower shall pay a service charge on the 
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate specified 
in the Trust Fund Agreement. 
Section 3.03. Computation of Service Charges. Service charges shall be computed 
on the basis of a 360\1eday year of twelve 30\1eday months.
Section 3.04. Repayment. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in installments as provided in the Trust 
Fund Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower shall have the right to repay in advance of maturity all or 
any part of the principal amount of one or more maturities of the Credit specified by 
the Borrower.
Section 3.05. Place of Payment. The principal of, and service charges on, the 
Credit shall be paid at such places as the Trustee shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Currency Provisions
Section 4.01. Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be Made. Except as the 
Borrower and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
and the Grant Account shall be made in the respective currencies in which the 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Grant have been 
paid or are payable; provided, however, that withdrawals in respect of expenditures in 
the currency of the Borrower shall be made in such currency or currencies as the 
Trustee shall from time to time reasonably select.
Section 4.02. Currencies in which Principal and Service Charges are Payable. (a) 
The Borrower shall pay the principal amount of, and service charges on, the Credit in 
the currency specified in the Trust Fund Agreement for the purposes of this Section or 
in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated 
or selected pursuant to paragraphs (c) or (e) of this Section.
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section, the term "eligible currency" means the 
currency of any member of the Association which the Trustee from time to time 
determines to be freely convertible or freely exchangeable by the Trustee for 
currencies of other members of the Association for the purposes of its operations.
(c) 
If at any time the Borrower shall desire that, commencing on a given 
future payment date, such principal and service charges shall be payable in an 
eligible currency other than that so specified or than one previously designated 
pursuant to this paragraph (c) or selected pursuant to paragraph (e) below, the 
Borrower shall deliver to the Trustee, not less than three nor more than five months 
prior to such payment date, a notice in writing to that effect and designating such 
other eligible currency. Upon receipt of such notice and commencing on such payment 
date, the currency so designated shall be the currency in which such principal and 
service charges shall be payable.
(d) 
If at any time the Trustee shall determine that a currency payable 
pursuant to the provisions of this Section is not an eligible currency, the Trustee 
shall so notify the Borrower in writing and furnish the Borrower with a list of 
eligible currencies.
(e) 
Within thirty days from the date of such notice from the Trustee, the 
Borrower shall notify the Trustee in writing of its selection from such list of a 
currency in which payment shall be made, failing which the Trustee shall select a 
currency for such purpose from such list. Upon such selection in either manner, such 
principal and service charges shall, commencing on the payment date next-succeeding 
such thirty\1eday period, be payable in the currency so selected.
Section 4.03. Amount of Repayment. The principal amount of the Credit repayable 
shall be the equivalent of the value of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the 
Credit Account expressed in terms of dollars as of the respective dates of withdrawal.
Section 4.04. Purchase of Currency of Withdrawal with Other Currency. If 
withdrawal shall be made in any currency which the Trustee shall have purchased with 
another currency for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the Credit so 
Page  19
withdrawn shall be deemed to have been withdrawn from the Credit Account in such other 
currency for purposes of Section 4.03.
Section 4.05. Valuation of Currencies. Whenever it shall be necessary for the 
purposes of the Trust Fund Agreement to determine the value of one currency in terms 
of another, such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Trustee.
Section 4.06. Manner of Payment. (a) Any payment required under the Trust Fund 
Agreement to be made to the Trustee in the currency of a country shall be made in such 
manner, and in currency acquired in such manner, as shall be permitted under the laws 
of such country for the purpose of making such payment and effecting the deposit of 
such currency to the account of the Trustee with a depository of the Trustee in such 
country.
(b) 
The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be paid 
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Withdrawal of Proceeds of Credit and Grant
Section 5.01. Withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Grant Account. The 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account and the Grant Account 
amounts expended or, if the Trustee shall so agree, amounts to be expended for the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Trust Fund Agreement and of these 
General Conditions. Except as the Borrower and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of 
the Trustee, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
Section 5.02. Special Commitments by the Trustee. Upon the Borrower's request 
and upon such terms and conditions as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and 
the Trustee, the Trustee may enter into special commitments in writing to pay amounts 
to the Borrower or others in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Grant notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or 
cancellation by the Trustee or the Borrower.
Section 5.03. Applications for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment. When the 
Borrower shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Credit Account or the Grant 
Account or to request the Trustee to enter into a special commitment pursuant to 
Section 5.02, the Borrower shall deliver to the Trustee a written application in such 
form, and containing such statements and agreements, as the Trustee shall reasonably 
request. Applications for withdrawal, including the documentation required pursuant to 
this Article, shall be made promptly in relation to expenditures for the Project.
Section 5.04. Reallocation. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the 
Credit or the Grant or the percentages for withdrawal set forth or referred to in the 
Trust Fund Agreement, if the Trustee has reasonably estimated that the amount of the 
Credit or the Grant then allocated to any withdrawal category set forth in the Trust 
Fund Agreement or added thereto by amendment will be insufficient to finance the 
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that category, the Trustee may, by notice to 
the Borrower:
(a) 
reallocate to such category, to the extent required to meet the estimated 
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or the Grant which are then allocated to another 
category and which in the opinion of the Trustee are not needed to meet other 
expenditures; and
(b) 
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce 
the percentage for withdrawal then applicable to such expenditures in order that 
further withdrawals under such category may continue until all expenditures thereunder 
shall have been made.
Section 5.05. Evidence of Authority to Sign Applications for Withdrawal. The 
Borrower shall furnish to the Trustee evidence of the authority of the person or 
persons authorized to sign applications for withdrawal and the authenticated specimen 
signature of any such person.
Section 5.06. Supporting Evidence. The Borrower shall furnish to the Trustee 
Page  20
such documents and other evidence in support of the application as the Trustee shall 
reasonably request, whether before or after the Trustee shall have permitted any 
withdrawal requested in the application.
Section 5.07. Sufficiency of Applications and Documents. Each application and 
the accompanying documents and other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance 
to satisfy the Trustee that the Borrower is entitled to withdraw from the Credit 
Account or the Grant Account the amount applied for and that the amount to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Grant Account is to be used only for the 
purposes specified in the Trust Fund Agreement.
Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes. It is the policy of the Trustee that no 
proceeds of the Credit or the Grant shall be withdrawn on account of payments for any 
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To that end, if the amount of 
any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit or the Grant decreases or increases, the Trustee may, by notice to the 
Borrower, increase or decrease the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to 
in respect of such item in the Trust Fund Agreement as required to be consistent with 
such policy of the Trustee.
Section 5.09. Payment by the Trustee. The Trustee shall pay the amounts 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant Account only to or on 
the order of the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. Cancellation by the Borrower. The Borrower may, by notice to the 
Trustee, cancel any amount of the Credit or the Grant which the Borrower shall not 
have withdrawn, except that the Borrower may not so cancel any amount of the Credit or 
the Grant in respect of which the Trustee shall have entered into a special commitment 
pursuant to Section 5.02.
Section 6.02. Suspension by the Trustee. If any of the following events of 
suspension shall have occurred and be continuing, the Trustee may, by notice to the 
Borrower, suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Grant Account:
(a)
The Borrower shall have failed to make payment (notwithstanding the fact 
that such payment may have been made by a third party) of principal, interest, service 
charges or any other amount due to the Trustee, the Association or the Bank: (i) under 
the Trust Fund Agreement, (ii) under any other trust fund credit agreement between the 
Borrower and the Trustee, (iii) under any development credit agreement between the 
Borrower and the Association or (iv) under any loan or guarantee agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank.
(b)
The Borrower shall have failed to perform any other obligation under the 
Trust Fund Agreement.
(c)
The Trustee, the Association or the Bank shall have suspended in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under any trust fund credit 
agreement with the Trustee, any development credit agreement with the Association or 
any loan agreement with the Bank, because of a failure by the Borrower to perform any 
of its obligations under such agreement.
(d)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Trust 
Fund Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Project can be carried out or that the Borrower will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Trust Fund Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower shall: (i) have ceased to be a member of the International 
Monetary Fund, (ii) have failed to become a member of the Bank and the Association by 
December 31, 1996 or such later date as may be agreed by the Trustee, or (iii) having 
become a member of the Bank or the Association, have ceased to be a member thereof.
(f)
After the date of the Trust Fund Agreement and prior to the Effective 
Date, any event shall have occurred which would have entitled the Trustee to suspend 
the Borrower's right to make withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Grant Account 
if the Trust Fund Agreement had been effective on the date such event occurred.
Page  21
(g)
A representation made by the Borrower, in or pursuant to the Trust Fund 
Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be 
relied upon by the Trustee in making the Credit or the Grant, shall have been 
incorrect in any material respect.
(h)
Any other event specified in the Trust Fund Agreement for the purposes of 
this Section shall have occurred.
The right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account or the 
Grant Account shall continue to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be, 
until the event or events which gave rise to suspension shall have ceased to exist, 
unless the Trustee shall have notified the Borrower that the right to make withdrawals 
has been restored in whole or in part, as the case may be.
Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Trustee. If (a) the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit or the Grant for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Trustee determines, after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit or the Grant will not be required to 
finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the 
Grant, or (c) at any time, the Trustee determines that the procurement of any item is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Trust Fund Agreement 
and establishes the amount of the expenditures in respect of such item which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit or the 
Grant, (d) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit or the Grant shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account or the Grant Account, or (f) by the date specified 
in paragraph 4 (c) 
of the Attachment to the Annex to Schedule 4 to the Trust Fund Agreement, the Trustee 
shall, in respect of any portion of the Credit: (i) have received no applications or 
requests under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any 
such applications or requests, the Trustee may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount 
or portions of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of 
the Credit or the Grant shall be canceled. 
Section 6.04. Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation 
or Suspension by the Trustee. No cancellation or suspension by the Trustee shall apply 
to amounts subject to any special commitment entered into by the Trustee pursuant to 
Section 5.02 hereof except as expressly provided in such commitment.
Section 6.05. Application of Cancellation to Maturities of the Credit. Except as 
the Borrower and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, any cancellation shall be applied 
pro rata to the several installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing 
after the date of such cancellation.
Section 6.06. Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension or Cancellation. 
Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all the provisions of the Trust Fund 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as specifically provided in 
this Article.
ARTICLE VII
Acceleration of Maturity
Section 7.01. Events of Acceleration. If any of the following events shall occur 
and shall continue for the period specified below, if any, then at any subsequent time 
during the continuance thereof, the Trustee, at its option, may, by notice to the 
Borrower, declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable 
immediately together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration 
such principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable immediately:
(a)
A default shall occur in the payment of principal or any other payment 
required under the Trust Fund Agreement and such default shall continue for a period 
of thirty days.
(b)
A default shall occur in the payment by the Borrower of principal or 
interest or any other amount due to the Trustee, the Association or the Bank.
(c)
A default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation on the 
part of the Borrower under the Trust Fund Agreement, and such default shall continue 
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Trustee 
Page  22
to the Borrower.
(d)
Any other event specified in the Trust Fund Agreement for the purposes of 
this Section shall have occurred and shall continue for the period, if any, specified 
in the Trust Fund Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Taxes
Section 8.01. Taxes. (a) The principal of, and other charges on, the Credit and 
the Grant shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes levied by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower.
(b) 
The Trust Fund Agreement, and any other agreement to which these General 
Conditions apply, shall be free from any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE IX
Cooperation and Information;
Financial and Economic Data;
Project Implementation
Section 9.01. Cooperation and Information. (a) The Borrower and the Trustee 
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit and the Grant will be 
accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the Trustee shall: 
(i)
from time to time, at the request of any one of them, exchange 
views with regard to the progress of the Project, the purposes of 
the Credit and the Grant, and the performance of their respective 
obligations under the Trust Fund Agreement; and furnish to the 
other party all such information related thereto as it shall 
reasonably request; and
(ii)
promptly inform each other of any condition which interferes with, 
or threatens to interfere with, the matters referred to in 
paragraph (i) above.
(b) 
The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for representatives 
of the Trustee to visit any site for purposes related to the Credit and the Grant.
Section 9.02. Financial and Economic Data. The Borrower shall furnish to the 
Trustee all such information as the Trustee shall reasonably request with respect to 
its financial and economic conditions in its territory including its balance of 
payments and its external debt as well as that of its political or administrative 
subdivisions and any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or 
benefit of the Borrower or any subdivision, and any institution performing the 
functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar function, for 
the Borrower. 
Section 9.03. Insurance. The Borrower shall insure or cause to be insured, or 
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit and the Grant against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation. Any indemnity 
for such insurance shall be payable in a freely usable currency to replace or repair 
such goods.
Section 9.04. Use of Goods and Services. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit and the Grant to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 9.05. Plans and Schedules. The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be 
furnished, to the Trustee promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, 
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the 
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail 
as the Trustee shall reasonably request.
Section 9.06. Records and Reports. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records 
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including 
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Grant, and to disclose their use in 
Page  23
the Project; (ii) within its capacity, enable the Trustee's representatives to visit 
any facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Grant and any plants, 
installations, sites, works, buildings, property, equipment, records and documents 
relevant to the performance of the obligations of the Borrower under the Trust Fund 
Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Trustee at regular intervals all such information 
as the Trustee shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where 
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of 
the Credit and the G
rant and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) 
Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Grant, the Trustee may publish a description 
thereof, the name and nationality of the party to which the contract was awarded and 
the contract price.
(c) 
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than 
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Trustee, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Trustee a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Trustee of their respective obligations under the Trust Fund Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Grant.
Section 9.07. Maintenance. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain, 
or cause to be operated and maintained, any facilities relevant to the Project, and 
promptly as needed, make or cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals 
thereof.
ARTICLE X
Failure to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section 10.01. Enforceability. The rights and obligations of the Borrower and 
the Trustee under the Trust Fund Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in 
accordance with their terms notwithstanding the law of any State or political 
subdivision thereof to the contrary. Neither the Borrower nor the Trustee shall be 
entitled in any proceeding under this Article to assert any claim that any provision 
of these General Conditions or the Trust Fund Credit and Grant Agreement is invalid or 
unenforceable because of any provision of the Articles of Agreement of the Trustee or 
any document or instrument constituting the Trust Fund.
Section 10.02. Failure to Exercise Rights. No delay in exercising, or omission 
to exercise, any right, power or remedy accruing to either party under the Trust Fund 
Agreement upon any default shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be 
construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default. No action of such 
party in respect of any default, or any acquiescence by it in any default, shall 
affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or 
subsequent default.
Section 10.03. Arbitration. (a) Any controversy between the parties to the Trust 
Fund Agreement and any claim by either such party against the other arising under the 
Trust Fund Agreement which has not been settled by agreement of the parties shall be 
submitted to arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b) 
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Trustee and the Borrower.
(c) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Trustee; a second arbitrator shall 
be appointed by the Borrower; and the third arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes called 
the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they shall not 
agree, by the President of the International Court of Justice or, failing appointment 
by said President, by the Secretary\1eGeneral of the United Nations. If either of the 
parties shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the 
Umpire. In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Section shall resign, 
die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same 
manner as herein prescribed for the appointment of the original arbitrator and such 
successor shall have all the powers and duties of such original arbitrator.
(d) 
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon 
notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall 
Page  24
contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be 
submitted to arbitration, the nature of the relief sought, and the name of the 
arbitrator appointed by the party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days 
after such notice, the other party shall notify to the party instituting the 
proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed by such other party.
(e) 
If within sixty days after the notice instituting the arbitration 
proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, either party may request 
the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section.
(f) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when 
it shall sit.
(g) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the 
parties shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(h) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to the parties a fair hearing and 
shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award 
signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of such 
Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any 
such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final 
and binding upon the parties to the Trust Fund Agreement. Each party shall abide by 
and comply with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section.
(i) 
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators 
and such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration 
proceedings. If the parties shall not agree on such amount before the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be 
reasonable under the circumstances. Each party shall defray its own expenses in the 
arbitration proceedings. The costs of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between 
and borne equally by the parties. Any question concerning the division of the costs of 
the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment of such costs shall be determined 
by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(j) 
The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu 
of any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to the 
Trust Fund Agreement or of any claims by either party against the other party arising 
thereunder.
(k) 
The Trustee shall not be entitled to enter judgment against the Borrower 
upon the award, to enforce the award against the Borrower by execution or to pursue 
any other remedy against the Borrower for the enforcement of the award, except as such 
procedure may be available against the Borrower otherwise than by reason of the 
provisions of this Section. If, within thirty days after counterparts of the award 
shall have been delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied with by the 
Trustee, the Borrower may take any such action for the enforcement of the award 
against the Trustee.
(l) 
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under 
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered 
pursuant to this Section may be made in the manner provided in Section 11.01. The 
parties to the Trust Fund Agreement waive any and all other requirements for the 
service of any such notice or process.
ARTICLE XI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 11.01. Notices and Requests. Any notice or request required or permitted 
to be given or made under the Trust Fund Agreement and any other agreement between the 
parties contemplated by the Trust Fund Agreement shall be in writing. Except as 
otherwise provided in Section 12.03, such notice or request shall be deemed to have 
been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable 
or telex to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party's address specified in the Trust Fund Agreement, or at such other address as 
such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making 
such request.
Page  25
Section 11.02. Evidence of Authority. The Borrower shall furnish to the Trustee 
sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of 
the Borrower, take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to be 
taken or executed by the Borrower under the Trust Fund Agreement, and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 11.03. Action on Behalf of the Borrower. Any action required or 
permitted to be taken, and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under 
the Trust Fund Agreement on behalf of the Borrower may be taken or executed by the 
representative of the Borrower designated in the Trust Fund Agreement for the purposes 
of this Section or any person thereunto authorized in writing by such representative. 
Any modification or amplification of the provisions of the Trust Fund Agreement may be 
agreed to on behalf of the Borrower by written instrument executed on behalf of the 
Borrower by the representative so designated or any person thereunto authorized in 
writing by such representative, provided that, in the opinion of such representative, 
such modification or amplification is reasonable in the circumstances and will not 
substantially increase the obligations of the Borrower under the Trust Fund Agreement. 
The Trustee may accept the execution by such representative or other person of any 
such instrument a
s conclusive evidence that in the opinion of such representative any modification or 
amplification of the provisions of the Trust Fund Agreement effected by such 
instrument is reasonable in the circumstances and will not substantially increase the 
obligations of the Borrower thereunder.
Section 11.04. Execution in Counterparts. The Trust Fund Agreement may be 
executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
ARTICLE XII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 12.01. Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of the Trust Fund 
Agreement.  The Trust Fund Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been furnished to the Trustee that:
(a)
the execution and delivery of the Trust Fund Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action; 
and
(b)
the events specified in the Trust Fund Agreement as conditions to its 
effectiveness have occurred.
Section 12.02. Legal Opinions or Certificates. As part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to Section 12.01, the Borrower shall furnish to the Trustee an 
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Trustee of counsel acceptable to the Trustee 
or, if the Trustee so requests, a certificate satisfactory to the Trustee of a 
competent official of the Borrower, showing:
(a)
that the Trust Fund Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
such other matters as shall be specified in the Trust Fund Agreement or 
as shall be reasonably requested by the Trustee in connection therewith.
Section 12.03. Effective Date. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Trustee shall 
otherwise agree, the Trust Fund Agreement shall enter into effect on the date on which 
the Trustee dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence 
required by Section 12.01.
(b)
If, before the Effective Date, any event shall have occurred which would 
have entitled the Trustee to suspend the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Grant Account if the Trust Fund Agreement had been 
effective, the Trustee may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section until such event or events shall  have ceased to exist.
Section 12.04. Termination of the Trust Fund Agreement for Failure to Become 
Effective. If the Trust Fund Agreement shall not have entered into effect by the date 
specified therein for the purposes of this Section, the Trust Fund Agreement and all 
obligations of the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless the Trustee, after 
consideration of the reasons for the delay, shall establish a later date for the 
purposes of this Section. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
Page  26
date.
Section 12.05. Termination of the Trust Fund Agreement on Full Payment. If and 
when the entire principal amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
all charges which shall have accrued on the Credit shall have been paid, the Trust 
Fund Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall forthwith 
terminate.
