                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR2891

             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-42330 IDA-45500)



                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22.7 MILLION
                          (US$33.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA

                                        FOR A

            WATER SECTOR PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



                                  December 20, 2013




Urban Development and Services Unit 1 (AFTU1)
Country Department AFCS3
Africa Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective May 3, 2006)

                   Currency Unit = Kwacha (ZMK)
                     3,065 ZMK = US$1
                        US$1.47 = SDR1

             (Exchange Rate Effective November 17, 2013)

                   Currency Unit = Kwacha (ZMK)
                     5,540 ZMK = US$1
                        US$1.53 = SDR1

                          FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 – December 31


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF       Additional Financing
AfDB     African Development Bank
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CPs      Cooperating Partners
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
CU       Commercial Utility
DANIDA   Danish International Development Agency
DFAPE    Development Financing Agreement for Performance Enhancement
DFARC    Development Financing Agreement Review Committee
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EIB      European Investment Bank
FIRR     Financial Internal Rate of Return
GRZ      Government of the Republic of Zambia
ICR      Implementation Completion Results Report
IDA      International Development Association
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
ISR      Implementation Status Report
KfW      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KPIs     Key Performance Indicators
LCC      Lusaka City Council
LWSC     Lusaka Water and Sewerage Company
MoF      Ministry of Finance
MLGH     Ministry of Local Government and Housing
MCC      Millennium Challenge Corporation
MDG      Millennium Development Goal
MDRI     Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative

                                 ii
MTSP     Mine Townships Services Project
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
NWASCO   National Water Supply and Sanitation Council
NPV      Net Present Value
NRW      Non-Revenue Water
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PIU      Projects Implementation Unit
PMS      Performance Management System
PPIAF    Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RWSS     Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SCADA    Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SIL      Sector Investment Loan
SPA      Special Performance Audit
SWAp     Sector-Wide Approach
TTL      Task Team Leader
UfW      Unaccounted For Water
URWSP    Urban Restructuring and Water Supply Project
WATSAN   Water and Sanitation
WSP      Water and Sanitation Program
WSPIP    Water Sector Performance Improvement Project
WSS      Water Supply and Sanitation
ZESCO    Zambia Electric Supply Company
ZPPA     Zambia Public Procurement Authority




                    Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                  Country Director: Kundhavi Kadiresan
                   Sector Manager: Rosemary Mukami Kariuki
              Project Team Leader: Michael John Webster
                 ICR Team Leader: Michael John Webster




                                   iii
                                                ZAMBIA
                              Water Sector Performance Improvement Project



                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 24
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 28
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 36
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 38
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 55
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 56

  MAP IBRD 40502 ....................................................................................................... 57




                                                                  iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Water Sector
Country:               Zambia                 Project Name:            Performance
                                                                       Improvement Project
                                                                       IDA-42330 (Original
                                                                       IDA)
Project ID:            P071259                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       IDA-45500 (Additional
                                                                       Financing)
ICR Date:              December 20, 2013      ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                    Borrower:                THE REPUBLIC OF
                                                                       ZAMBIA
Original Total
                     XDR 15.70M             Disbursed Amount: XDR 20.46M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      XDR 22.20M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH) and Lusaka
Water and Sewerage Company (LWSC)
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process         Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/26/2003   Effectiveness:           03/22/2007       03/22/2007
Appraisal:             05/02/2006   Restructuring(s):                         04/25/2012
Approval:              10/05/2006   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:                 06/30/2010        06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower          Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately              Overall Borrower
                                                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:            Satisfactory            Performance:

                                             v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                                           Rating
      Performance                                  (if any)
 Potential Problem
Project at any time      No               Quality at Entry (QEA): None
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                   Quality of Supervision
                         Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                            (QSA):
DO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                    4
Wastewater Treatment and Disposal                                   21
Water supply                                                        75

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                             25
Rural services and infrastructure                                   25
Urban services and housing for the poor                             50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                     At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:           Makhtar Diop                         Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:         Kundhavi Kadiresan                   Michael Baxter
Sector Manager:           R. Mukami Kariuki                    Jaime M. Biderman
Project Team Leader:      Michael John Webster                 Jane Walker
ICR Team Leader:          Michael John Webster
ICR Primary Author:       Solomon Alemu

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document (PAD))
The objective of the project is to support the Recipient's efforts towards the: (i) improvement of
access to, and sustainability of, the water supply and sanitation services for consumers in Lusaka;
and (ii) development of a comprehensive institutional structure supporting a coordinated
approach to water supply and sanitation investments.




                                                vi
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objective of the project is to support the Recipient’s efforts to: (i) improve the technical
efficiency and financial sustainability of LWSC and improve access to water supply and
sanitation services for urban consumers in Lusaka, Kafue, Chongwe, and Luangwa districts, and
(ii) strengthen the effectiveness of national water supply and sanitation planning.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
     Indicator       Baseline Value   Original Target      Formally      Actual Value Achieved
                                        Values (from        Revised         at Completion or
                                          approval          Target             Target Years
                                        documents)          Values
PDO Indicator 1:     LWSC achieves 100% coverage of operational cost through its operational
                     revenue
Value                      89%             100%              N/A                   130%
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date                 Jan 2007          June 30, 2013                         June 30, 2013
Comments             With 130% achievement of this indicator, the target has been exceeded by 30%.
(incl. %
achievement)

PDO Indicator 2      An additional 40,000 people in the three districts-Kafue, Chongwe, and Luangwa
                     – have access to safe water by end of project (this is an additional Indicator)
Value                70,000                                   110,000                   79,000
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date                 Jan 2007               June 30, 2013                          June 30, 2013
Comments             This indicator is partially met (achievement is 23%) since the target set was
(incl. %             unrealistic. The project financed raw water abstraction, treatment, transmission
achievement)         and storage, thus leading to increased production and improved quality of water,
                     but did not invest much in increased distribution, nor connections (beyond the
                     100 communal standpipes (serving 5,000 people) and the connections in
                     Chongwe, Luangwa and Kafue). This indicator should have been revised at the
                     last restructuring to include a realistic target in view of the investments.

PDO Indicator 3      A common WSS financing mechanism agreed by MLGH and contributing
                     donors (This is a revised indicator)
Value                In draft             N/A             Agreed    At 2nd Draft stage
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date                 Jan 2007                                June 30, 2013 June 30, 2013
Comments (incl.%     Mostly achieved. The original indicator was “Investment program for WSS
achievement)         agreed by MLGH and contributing donors”. This was amended as indicated
                     when the project was restructured.



                                              vii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
     Indicator      Baseline Value    Original Target             Formally         Actual Value
                                        Values (from               Revised         Achieved at
                                          approval                 Target       Completion or Target
                                         documents)                Values             Years
Component A:Lusaka City
Access
Indicator 1:      New connection in peri-urban areas

Value                         0           100                        N/A                   99
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved            January 2007                                               June 30, 2013
Comments              Fully achieved. Actually 100 connections (kiosks) were constructed but one was
                      damaged by a truck. It is assumed that each connection services 50 people,
                      although this is probably an under-estimate
Indicator 2:          Installation of metered connections

Value                      24,000         54,000                     N/A        54,000
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved           January 2007      June 30, 2013                               June 30, 2013
Comments              Fully achieved.

Indicator 3:          Interruptions to water supply

Value                       5000                   1600          N/A            333
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved           January 2007      June 30, 2013                         June 30, 2013
Comments              Fully achieved and results have largely surpassed End of Project target.
Indicator 4:          Drinking water quality – biological samples failing

Value                      17.7%                   2.7%              N/A        2%
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved           January 2007         June 30, 2013                            June 30, 2013
Comments              Fully achieved

Financial Viability

Indicator 1:          Energy reduction in kWh/m3 of water produced

Value                  0.975 kWh/m3                   5%             N/A        15.2%
(quantitative or
qualitative)

                                                viii
Date achieved      January 2007        June 30, 2013                       June 30, 2013
Comments           Fully achieved. The target has been exceeded by more than three times

Indicator 2:       Leakage control – reduction in unaccounted-for-water

Value                     51%                   45%                N/A        48%
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved      January 2007           June 30, 2013                      June 30, 2013
Comments           Partially achieved. There has been a reduction in Non-Revenue Water by 3%
                   while the target is a reduction by 6%. Hence this indicator has been achieved by
                   50%
Indicator 3:       Operating cost control – operating margin (operating profit as % of turnover)

Value                                               5%        N/A                       8%
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved                            June 30, 2013                      June 30, 2013
Comments           Fully achieved. The operating margin target has been exceeded by 60%.
Indicator 4:       Collection ratio (collection/billed)

Value                    70%                 90%                   N/A
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved                         June 30, 2013                           June 30, 2013
Comments
Component A: Kafue District
Indicator 1:     Installation of metered connections

Value                      0           4,000                       N/A        3,917
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved      January 2007        June 30, 2013                          June 30, 2013
Comments           Fully achieved. This target is achieved at 98%.
Indicator 2:       Drinking water quality – biological samples failing

Value                     12%                       5%             N/A                  1%
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved      January 2007        June 30, 2013                          June 30, 2013
Comments           Fully achieved. The target for this indicator has been exceeded substantially.
Indicator 3:       Improved water source production m3/day

Value                   12,000                 24,000         N/A             23,400
(quantitative or
qualitative)
                                               ix
Date achieved  January 2007         June 30, 2013                            June 30, 2013
Comments       Fully achieved. The target is achieved at 98%.
Component A:Chongwe District
Indicator 1:   Installation of metered connections

Value                      0           250                        N/A        929
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved      January 2007        June 30, 3013                          June 30, 2013
Comments           Fully achieved. The target for this indicator has been exceeded substantially
Indicator 2:       Drinking water quality – biological samples failing

Value                    80%                   10%                N/A                  2.7%
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved      January, 2007       June 30, 2013                          June 30, 2013
Comments           Fully achieved. The target for this indicator has been exceeded substantially

Indicator 3:       Improved water source production m3/day

Value                    1,700                 2,400          N/A            4,096
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved      January 2007        June 30, 2013                          June 30, 2013
Comments           Fully achieved. The target for this indicator has been exceeded substantially

Component A:Luangwa District
Indicator 1:   Installation of metered connections

Value                      0                      80              N/A                   388
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved      January 2007        June 30, 2013                          June 30, 2013
Comments           Fully achieved. The target for this indicator has been exceeded substantially

Indicator 2:       Drinking water quality – biological samples failing

Value                    10%                   2.5%               N/A                  2.6%
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved      January 2007        June 30, 2013                         June 30, 2013
Comments           Fully achieved.




                                              x
Indicator 3:         Improved water source production m3/day

Value                    450                   600            N/A                       647
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved    January 2007         June 30, 2013                          June 30, 2013
Comments         Fully achieved. The target for this indicator has been exceeded.
Component B: MLGH
Indicator 1:     National WSS Policy developed and accepted by MLGH
Value                     0           Completed                   N/A            Draft completed
(quantitative or
qualitative)
Date achieved                         June 30, 2013                          June 30, 2013
Comments         Partially achieved and likely to be fully achieved in the near future.


Indicator 2:         GRZ and donors sign MOU on WSS program
Value                                  Signed               N/A                   Rural signed urban
(quantitative or                                                                       pending
qualitative)
Date achieved                             June 30, 2013                         June 30, 2013
Comments             Partially achieved. Rural signed, urban pending

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                             IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
                                                           Moderately
  1     06/15/2007     Moderately Satisfactory                                           0.00
                                                         Unsatisfactory
  2     11/29/2007     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            2.18
  3     03/24/2008         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   3.32
  4     11/25/2008         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   4.41
  5     05/28/2009         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   7.18
  6     11/23/2009     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory           12.30
  7     05/31/2010     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory           13.34
  8     01/01/2011     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory           15.69
  9     08/29/2011     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory           17.56
 10     12/31/2011     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory           18.03
                                                           Moderately
 11     07/29/2012     Moderately Satisfactory                                          20.13
                                                         Unsatisfactory
 12     01/11/2013     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory           21.90
 13     06/29/2013     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory           25.74


                                                 xi
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     (i) an extension of the closing
                                                     date by 12 months to June 30,
                                                     2013; (ii) fund reallocation
                                                     from Category 3 (Refund of
 04/25/2012               MS    MS          18.03
                                                     Project Preparation Advance)
                                                     and Category 5 (Unallocated) to
                                                     Category 1 (Works, Goods and
                                                     Consultant Services).

I. Disbursement Profile




                                        xii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country Context/Background
1.      In Zambia, most basic services were readily available and highly subsidized until the
mid-1980's. As an example, in urban areas the water sector developed as an almost "free" service
sector with very limited metering, no control on consumption, and maintenance was funded from
general funds rather than from user fees. A culture of high expectations of good service with low
payment therefore emerged. However, Zambia's fortunes deteriorated from the late 1970s
through to the 1990s due to falling copper prices, limited diversification of the economy, poor
macro-economic management, and frequent fiscal crises which adversely affected its economic
development. Absolute poverty increased and per capita income and other human development
indicators fell in the 1990s. Basic service delivery deteriorated. Water supply coverage estimates
in 1990 were 73% while estimates of coverage in 2005, just before appraisal of the Water Sector
Performance Improvement Project (WSPIP), were only 53%.

2.      Following the introduction of multi-party democratic system in 1991, a sweeping
program of privatization and deregulation across many sectors was introduced in the early 1990s.
The program slowed due to a contraction in economic recovery in the mid to late 1990s. The
economic growth rate rose between 2002 and 2004 due to the increase in world copper prices.
The government took steps to strengthen the economy and reduce its over-dependence on copper
through diversification. Nevertheless poverty rates in Zambia were high as more than half (56%)
of all Zambians live below the poverty line and 36% could not meet their basic food
requirements. Other human development indicators also deteriorated, with life expectancy
declining to 37.5 years in 2005 primarily due to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Anecdotal evidence
suggests that caregivers considered access to clean water as a critical input to AIDS patients care.
While a higher proportion of the poor lived in rural areas, Zambia was a relatively highly
urbanized country with over 40% of the population living in urban areas. Of these four million
people, about 70% lived in densely populated areas such as the provinces of Lusaka and
Copperbelt. Urban poverty was worrisome in these provinces since the absolute concentration of
poor population was high. Urban population growth was, on average, double the rural growth.

Sector Context/Background
3.       The Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) had demonstrated a long term strong
commitment to the water and sanitation sector. Zambia had been at the forefront of water
reforms in Africa. These reforms were linked to the overall wave of deregulation and
privatization introduced in the early 1990's which targeted commercialization of services,
professional management and cost recovery from operations. In November 1994, the Zambian
government announced the National Water Policy that aimed at 'promoting a sustainable water
resources development with a view to facilitate equitable provision of adequate quantity and
quality of water for all competing groups of users at acceptable costs and ensuring security of
supply at varying conditions. While the urban reforms forged ahead, the task of building an
institutional structure for rural Water Supply and Sanitation (WSS) provision lagged. Zambia led
the region in establishing an independent regulatory agency (the National Water Supply and
Sanitation Council - NWASCO) for the urban water sector under the 1997 Water Supply and
Sanitation Act No. 28. This groundbreaking regulatory and institutional framework devolved the
authority for water service provision from central government to local authorities who were

                                                   1
given freedom to decide how the systems should be operated. In particular, local authorities were
encouraged to form autonomous water and sanitation Commercial Utilities (CUs) that were
expected to be financially self-sufficient with respect to operation and maintenance costs. This
entails establishing a well-defined institutional structure that will achieve the intended policy
objectives.

Institutional Arrangement
4.      In the operationalization of this policy, all the executive functions for WSS service
delivery became the responsibility of local authorities under the overall guidance of the Ministry
of Local Government and Housing (MLGH). The 1994 sector policy also initiated the setting up
of the regulator - National Water Supply and Sanitation Council (NWASCO) which began its
operations in 2000. NWASCO, concentrating mainly in urban areas, was mandated with
balancing commercial and consumer interests and has the overall responsibility to advise the
government and local authorities on matters of WSS and commercially viable instruments of
service delivery; license utilities and other service providers; develop guidelines for WSS
provision, technical and financial management of utilities, approving tariffs; and enforce
minimum service delivery standards.

 Project Background
5.      The primary focus of the proposed project was the Lusaka Water and Sewerage Company
(LWSC). LWSC was established in 1988 and started operating in 1990. It was a company wholly
owned by Lusaka City Council (LCC) at appraisal, but was expanded to Lusaka Province
(including four satellite towns) during implementation. At project appraisal, it provided water
services directly to about 45,880 connections (of which 33,370 were domestic connections) for
the 1.5 million residents in Lusaka with a coverage rate of about 80% on the network. The
Copperbelt area of Zambia had approximately the same number of people with about three times
the number of connections. Less than 30% of LWSC’s connections were metered and the rest
were billed on assessed values. LWSC also served about 20,000 sewer connections. LSWC
produced 230,000 m3/day of water, lost 20% through technical losses and 30% through
commercial losses. The main domestic sewage treatment plant was designed to receive
36,000m3/day but received 65,000 m3/day. The plant operated at only 20% of its capacity. While
the water supply service provided in conventional areas was reasonable (most customers
received a 16 to 24 hour supply), the extent and quality of service provided to peri-urban areas
was limited.

6.      The reforms in the water sector introduced in 1994 and continued through the 2000s took
time to be institutionalized and affected in the Commercial Utilities, including LWSC. The
Government and the Bank realized during project scoping that any future operation would need
to focus on building the capacity of LWSC to implement the reforms.

Rationale for Bank Involvement
7.      The project was designed to build directly on the extensive reform agenda in the urban
water sector in Zambia. The Bank had had a long involvement in Zambia’s urban water and
sanitation sector through two major operations - the Urban Restructuring and Water Supply
Project (URWSP) (1996-2000) and the Mine Townships Services Project (MTSP) (2000-2005).
This deep sector knowledge gave the Bank unique credibility to continue its long-term
                                                2
participation in the sector and to engage fully in the maturation of the reform process for urban
utilities which only started in 1994. By helping LWSC to break the circle of inefficiency and
lack of adherence to commercial principles, the utility would move forward and ensure improved
operational and financial viability beyond the project. In the longer term this was intended to
lead to an ability to finance new connections and improve access in peri-urban areas as well as
new developments in a growing city.

8.      This project was closely aligned with Zambia’s priorities via the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP). The PRSP (2002) emphasized the role of infrastructure in growth and
diversification. One of the major issues, as identified in the PRSP, was to ensure that water
resources were effectively developed to contribute to poverty reduction. Lack of effective
development was evidenced by large populations in poor urban communities not served
adequately by water utilities.

9.     This water project was set out in the strategic priority 2 of the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Zambia which aimed to improve lives and protect the vulnerable. Reliable
provision of water supply is critical to improved quality of life (CAS, 2004). The project would
add to human capacity development and support an improved quality of life through sustainable
access to clean water supply and improved sanitation. The project would also assist in Zambia
meeting the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in the water sector. The project was in the
2003-2007 CAS as an FY2006 project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
10.     The objective of the project (as stated in the Financing Agreement) was to support the
Recipient's efforts towards the: (i) improvement of access to, and sustainability of, the water
supply and sanitation services for consumers in Lusaka; and (ii) development of a
comprehensive institutional structure supporting a coordinated approach to water supply and
sanitation investments. It is worth noting that the wording of the PDO in the Project Appraisal
Document is slightly different, it read: “The project development objective is to support the
GRZ’s on-going commitment to urban and rural water sector reforms by improving access and
sustainability of WSS services for consumers in Lusaka and by supporting a more
comprehensive institutional structure which will lead to a sector wide approach for WSS
investments.” The original Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are shown in Table 1 below.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
    reasons/justification
11. The PDO and Key performance Indicators were revised in response to the Additional
Financing (AF) approved by the Board on 16 April, 2009. The revised PDO supports the
Recipient’s effort to (i) improve the technical efficiency and financial sustainability of LWSC and
improve access to water supply and sanitation services, for urban consumers in Lusaka, Kafue,
Chongwe, and Luangwa districts, and (ii) strengthen the effectiveness of national water supply
and sanitation planning.

12.    The Additional Financing was necessary to support the scale up and the changes in the
PDO due to the unforeseen additional responsibilities of LWSC following the GRZ’s
requirement for the Company to service additional consumers. Following a Ministerial directive
                                                3
for the districts of Kafue, Chongwe, Luangwa and Lusaka to fall under one regional utility,
effective February 1, 2008, LWSC became fully responsible for management of the water and
sanitation services in the new districts as well as in Lusaka. The water supply and sewerage
assets in those areas were transferred to the company at the same time. This meant that LWSC
expanded its responsibilities to an additional 150,000 consumers and to a service area that
covered all urban areas within Lusaka Province. The Additional Financing was to be utilized to
further support the project’s objectives of financial sustainability and institutional strengthening
of LWSC, and for immediate and urgently needed rehabilitation and augmentation of the water
supply and sanitation facilities in the new areas which had infrastructure in a very bad state.
Given that the new areas to be served are small and distant, the investment in infrastructure in
these areas was intended to bring the infrastructure to a minimal state that would not overburden
the LWSC in the wake of the additional responsibility. Thus, although a greater part of the
funding went towards infrastructure, it was focused on rehabilitation and basic improvements
with very limited expansion. The revised Key Performance Indicators are also shown in Table 1
below along with the original indicators.

Table 1: Key Performance Indicators: Original and Revised
                        Original                                         Revised
 1   LWSC achieves coverage of operational costs   LWSC achieves 100% coverage of
     through its operational revenues              operational costs through its
                                                   operational revenues
 2   Investment program for WSS agreed by          An additional 40,000 people in the 3
     MLGH and contributing donors                  districts - Kafue, Chongwe, and
                                                   Luangwa - have access to safe water
                                                   by end of project
 3                                                 A common WSS Financing mechanism agreed by
                                                   MLGH and contributing donors

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
13.   The project was intended to benefit the following groups:
    • Local Consumers: Main project beneficiaries were the residents of Lusaka who benefitted
      from improved water supply services (both reliability of supply and improved quality) as
      a result of rehabilitation of production and distribution systems, and in particular the
      residents of peri-urban areas (where the majority of the urban poor lives) where
      additional 100 new water kiosks were constructed. With the Additional Financing,
      150,000 people, of whom about 40,000 would receive new connections, in the four
      townships of Kafue, Chilanga, Chongwe and Luangwa, was expected to benefit from
      rehabilitated and new water supply production, transmission, storage, and distribution
      facilities.
    • Lusaka Water and Sewerage Company (LWSC): benefitted from the various technical
      assistance and services, and operational support provided under the project and from the
      incentivized Development Financing Agreement for Performance Enhancement
      (DFAPE) and consequently became a financially and technically viable utility.
    • Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH): as the parent ministry responsible
      for provision of WSS services benefitted from technical support in the development of
      financing mechanism for the sector and development of a national WSS policy including
      training of ministry staff and retooling (including equipment and vehicles).
                                                 4
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
14.    Component A: Support to LWSC - US$20 million - This component constituted the bulk
of the credit and aimed to introduce performance improvements and modem management
methods for LWSC to become a financially sustainable and efficient utility and to be able to
finance new investments from its own cash flows in the longer term. Specific items included:

       (a) Support to the Development Financing Agreement for Performance Enhancement
           (DFAPE) through provision of goods, works, operational cost support to cover
           incremental operating costs due to the Project
       (b) Emergency goods and works
       (c) Support to a Human Resource strategy, training and performance payments
       (d) Preparation of designs, feasibility studies, and completion of an Environmental
           Impact Assessment (EIA) for capital works expected to be supported through a
           Sector-wide approach (SWAp)

15.    Component B: Institutional capacity building in MLGH- US$1 million - This component
would support capacity building within the MLGH to meet their increased water and sanitation
(WATSAN) responsibilities, by supporting a number of key activities intended to facilitate the
development of the sub-sector financing mechanism for rural water supply and sanitation,
including harmonizing relevant MLGH procedures with other government programs. The project
would build on the progress already made in the sector, and on activities being supported or
planned by other development partners. The project had three main sub-components:

       (a) Support to Restructuring of the WATSAN Function within MLGH
       (b) Strengthening Strategic Analytical Function for WATSAN in MLGH
       (c) Support the Operationalization of the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS)
           Financing Mechanism and harmonization with other government mechanisms

16.     Taxes and Duties: During appraisal of the project, the GRZ requested that the credit
include an allocation for taxes and duties of about US$2 million. This represents about 10% of
the credit. Low to moderate taxes, which constitute the taxes to be included under the credit, for
example Value Added Tax (VAT), is allowed under the Country Financing Parameters for
Zambia dated May13, 2004. Taxes have been allocated as US$1.9 million for Component A and
US$l00,000 for Component B.

1.6 Revised Components
17.     As a result of the Board approved Additional Financing and associated restructuring (16
April, 2009) the following were the revised components. Component A: Support to LWSC:

       (a) Support to LWSC, through the provision of consultants’ services, goods, works and
           Operating Costs, for the implementation of the Development Financing Agreement
           for Performance Enhancement (DFAPE).
       (b) Carrying out of rehabilitation works for bulk water production, repair of distribution
           systems, repair of sewer networks and plants and boreholes, including carrying out of

                                                5
           related studies, design and supervision services, through the provision of consultancy
           services, goods, works and operating costs.
       (c) Design and implementation of a human resources strategy, through the provision of
           technical assistance and Performance Payments.
       (d) Support towards the restructuring of LWSC aimed at integrating the management of
           the Additional Districts within the LWSC’s corporate structure through the provision
           of goods, consultancy services and training.

18.     Component A was supported through the provision of consultant services and training,
goods, works, and operating costs, including licenses and fees, operating costs of vehicles,
electricity and other utility costs, and logistical support. Specific project activities under sub-
component A were to support the immediate rehabilitation and augmentation of water and
sewer/sanitation facilities in the new districts.

19.    Component B: Support to MLGH for the preparation of a coordinating mechanism for
water supply and sanitation sector, including:

       (a) Provision of technical assistance for the development of a national water supply and
       sanitation policy.
       (b) Provision of technical assistance for the development of a financing mechanism for
       the water supply and sanitation sector.
       (c) Carrying out a program of activities related to the development of the sanitation and
       hygiene component of the National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Programme
       including strengthening the capacity of staff of the MLGH through the provision of
       technical assistance, Training and goods.

1.7 Other significant changes
20.     The project received an additional credit for US$10 million and the closing date extended
twice for a total extension of 3 years. The specific changes were:

   •   An additional credit of US$10 million was approved by the Board on April 16, 2009.
       This was used for carrying out rehabilitation works for bulk water production, repair of
       distribution systems, repair of sewer networks and plants and boreholes, including
       carrying out of related studies, design and supervision services, through the provision of
       consultancy services, goods, works and operating costs with the aim of providing
       increased quality of water and access, improved water quality and more reliable
       operations and service to the four townships (Kafue, Chilanga, Chongwe, and Luangwa)
       in the three new districts (Kafue, Chongwe and Luangwa) that were brought under the
       management of LWSC through government directives. It was also used to provide
       support towards the restructuring of LWSC aimed at integrating the management of the
       additional districts within the LWSC’s corporate structure through the provision of goods,
       consultancy services and training. The implementation of the AF was agreed to be over a
       2 year period. Thus the closing date of the project was extended from June 30 2011 to
       June 30, 2012.
   •   Restructuring was approved by the Bank on April 25, 2012.

                                                6
       The changes requested were: (i) extension of the credit closing date by 12 months to
       June 30, 2013, to allow completion of the delayed ongoing works and goods contracts
       which were caused by the delay in effectiveness of the Additional Financing, and (ii)
       funds reallocation from Category 3 (refund of Project Preparation advance) and Category
       5 (unallocated) to Category 1 (Works, goods and consultant services). The reallocated
       funds were used to finance activities agreed in the Procurement Plan.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
21.     There was a clear rationale for the Bank’s intervention under the WSPIP and a strong
commitment from the GRZ and stakeholders towards the PDO. The project was prepared over a
span of 3 years (2003-2006). Significant amount of background and preparatory work was
undertaken during project preparation including private sector participation option studies and
study tour, technical studies and assessment of an investment program, institutional assessment,
stakeholder consultation and social assessment. Due to the institutional reform focus of the
project, and the numerous preparatory works done during preparation, the length of preparation,
while long, was appropriate.

Assessment of the Project Design
22.      The Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) assesses the quality of the
project design as moderately satisfactory. The design of the project was based on GRZ’s
priorities and a sound sector analysis, technical reviews of alternatives, and lessons learned. An
adequate monitoring system and related tools were established. The project focused on the
institutional reforms needed by LWSC to improve their financial and operational performance.
Previous World Bank projects in Zambia and elsewhere had shown that until a water utility
improves its own performance and governance framework, investment in infrastructure will have
limited impact. This project therefore embarked on a program of institutional reforms to address
fundamental institutional challenges and reverse the financial and operational performance of
LWSC, based on regional and international best practice.

23.     The primary tool to drive this institutional reform was a performance contact between the
GRZ and LWSC. The performance contact - Development Financing Agreement for
Performance Enhancement (DFAPE) - was developed with full buy-in from Government and
implementing agencies, as a performance monitoring instrument against set targets for each year
of the project implementation. The DFAPE benefited from the experience of the Uganda Water
and Sewerage Corporation team that had successfully piloted a similar performance contact in
Uganda, and provided technical advice to LWSC to adapt the performance contact to Zambia.
The DFAPE provided financial incentives to the staff of LWSC on an annual basis against the
achievement of performance targets. The targets were agreed between GRZ (as represented by
the Ministry of Local Government and Housing) and LWSC and were monitored by an
Independent Technical Auditor once a year (all technical audits were reviewed as part of the
ICR) supported by the project.

24.    There was a full endorsement of the use of DFAPE by stakeholders (Ministry of Finance
(Mof), MLGH, LCC, NWASCO, and LWSC) and proved to be very useful in achieving the
desired results. The use of the DFAPE is regarded as best practice design of water utility
                                                7
institutional reform and a key feature of the project. The performance contract (DFAPE) was
fully funded by the project, including the technical audit and the annual incentive payments, and
it covered the full extent of LWSC’s scope of services, including the expanded service area that
happened mid-way through implementation. The DFAPE was meant to kick start the
performance management system with the hope that after performance improvement LWSC
would be able to finance the incentives from own revenue. The human resources strategy
financed under the project required LWSC to put in place a Performance Management System
(PMS). In 2011 LWSC implemented a PMS in which individual performance incentive contracts
with employees were signed and the approach continues to date.

25.     The project also supported significant other technical assistance activities including: (i)
clean-up of the customer database to better identify customers, improve collections and improve
customer relations; (ii) equipment to improve efficiency and operations in the four satellite towns,
such as water testing equipment, vehicles and office equipment; (iii) Supervisory Control and
Data Acquisition (SCADA) system in the four satellite towns; (iv) leak detection equipment; (v)
equipment to improve pumping efficiency (vi) significant TA from the Water and Sanitation
Program on low-cost sanitation, communications and other utility management throughout
project implementation; (vii) human resources strategy to improve the effectiveness and
efficiency of LWSC; and (viii) significant operational, management and technical training. The
project also had a major focus on metering: 30,000 customer meetings, and an additional 18,000
prepaid meters which have had a significant impact efficiency and customer management. The
Project also had significant focus on improving bill collection from Government which probably
has the single biggest impact on the financial turn-around.

26.     The project, however, also had design flaws. The project was originally designed as an
APL with the first phase focused on institutional reforms and the second phase on investments to
improve service delivery. Late in the preparation phase, the project was changed to a SIL, but
some key elements of the project design were not fully adjusted. The results framework did not
fully capture the PDO and the project design – for example, there was no PDO indicator for
increased access, whereas the PDO included increased access – and the intermediate indicators
do not lead to the outcome indicators. The project took long to prepare (over three years) and
planned a too short implementation period (3 years), therefore the ICR rates quality at entry as
MS.

Adequacy of Government Commitment
27.     The GRZ was fully committed to the sector as demonstrated by the preparation and
implementation of far reaching reforms in the sector. The Government supported the use of
DFAPE as a tool for driving performance improvements with built in incentive to performing
staff. However, the effectiveness of the Additional Financing was delayed by 23 months due to
GRZ failing to meet the conditions of effectiveness as indicated above. These had significant
impact on project implementation even though government requested and obtained extension of
project implementation period.




                                                 8
Risks and their Mitigation
28.     The PAD and the Project Paper provided a realistic assessment of the broad risks to the
project and mitigation measures. Some of the risks considered ‘high’ and ‘substantial’ were:

   •   Failure to control costs
   •   Failure to regularize the payment of government agencies’ arrears to LWSC and to pay
       current bills timely

29.     The above risks were mitigated adequately since achieving operational cost coverage and
control was a key indicator for the outcome of Component A, and was monitored closely. The
DFAPE performance targets included strict cost control. The risk of failure to regularize payment
of arrears was substantially minimized by an Economic Management and Growth Credit
approved before appraisal where a time-bound restructuring plan for payment of the outstanding
GRZ arrears to utility companies was adopted. In addition, in order to prevent government
agencies from accumulating such large arrears, LWSC planned to install pre-paid meters for the
largest government consumers with a history of poor payment.

2.2 Implementation
30.     The project was initially planned to be implemented over a three year period (2007-2010),
but commencement of implementation was delayed due to delays in payment of a lapsed loan by
GRZ which hampered flow of credit funds into the project designated accounts. Following a
March 6, 2008 request from the Government, the Credit Closing Date was extended from June
30, 2010 to June 30, 2011. The reason for the extension early in the life of the project was that
the implementation of the project had been delayed by about nine months due to the inability of
the counterparts - LWSC and MLGH - to use their respective Designated Accounts. Although
the Designated Account for LWSC had been opened, in accordance with OP 12.00, the Bank
would not advance funds to it until the Borrower had refunded about US$680,000 in unused
Designated Account balances (“lapsed loans”) under closed projects unrelated to the water and
sanitation sector. These lapsed loan balances were refunded in October 2007, and the LWSC
Designated Account then became active in November 2007.

31.     While implementation picked up slowly, GRZ requested Additional Financing which was
approved on April 16, 2009, and the project was restructured to include the four townships from
the three districts (Kafue, Chongwe, and Luangwa) which were brought under the jurisdiction of
LWSC effective February 1, 2008. With the approval of the AF, the project closing date was
extended to June 30, 2012. The AF was planned to be used for infrastructure rehabilitation and
expansion in the four townships and to strengthen the capacity of LWSC to shoulder the
additional responsibility. The PDO was revised along with the outcome indicators to reflect the
restructuring, and no formal Mid-Term Review was carried out. At the time the AF was
approved only about 21% of the total credit was disbursed. Implementation progressed slowly as
the effectiveness of the AF was unduly delayed due to the GRZ not meeting the conditions of
effectiveness. The AF became effective on 29 March 2011, almost two years after its approval
due to delays by GRZ in meeting the condition of effectiveness of payment of outstanding
arrears of water and sewerage services owed to LWSC by ministries, departments and agencies.
Implementation picked up and it became necessary for carrying out another restructuring mainly

                                               9
to allow reallocation among categories (see section 1.7 for details), and to extend the closing date
to enable completion of project activities. The closing date was extended to June 30, 2013.

32.     Restructuring was necessary to achieve the project’s objectives of financial sustainability
of LWSC. The new areas will put an increased burden on LWSC, as estimates showed that
revenues from these new areas were well below operating costs. The December 2007 supervision
mission projected that 2007 would be the first year in which LWSC recorded an operational
profit, but incorporating the new districts would reverse those improvements for the following
years. In order to continue progress toward financial sustainability, LWSC will need to continue
to exercise strict limits on cost escalation, and to avoid any increases in debt and overdrafts. The
operational costs and revenue structure of the additional districts would likely result in LWSC
not being able to reach its development objective of sustainability under WSPIP, which was
defined as 100 percent cost coverage of operations and maintenance (O&M) unless additional
support was made available.

33.     Implementation progressed and almost all planned activities were completed by the time
of project closure (see Annex 2 outputs by components). At closure, 95% of the credit was
disbursed, and some activities were not completed prior to the closing date. Major factors that
affected progress for component A included:

       (i)     poor specifications, cost estimates and preparations especially for works contracts
               that caused delays including the need to agree and clear addenda and standoffs
               between the consultant and the contractors
       (ii)    delays in delivery of key materials and equipment for works contracts and in
               some cases for goods contracts
       (iii)   poor project management and oversight by LWSC which resulted in contract
               lapses and failure by consultants and contractors to adhere to contract provisions
               including deployment of staff and equipment specified in the contract

34.     However project management and oversight improved significantly towards the end of
the project after LWSC trained staff under the Projects Implementation Unit (PIU) and also
assigned dedicated staff for the key works contract resulting in accelerated progress, as a key
objective of the project was to build the capacity of LWSC.

35.    The Implementation Status Report (ISR) #11 rated implementation progress as
moderately unsatisfactory as progress on procurement had lagged and LWSC had not met certain
key agreed actions from the previous mission. However, the implementation progress was
upgraded to moderately satisfactory in ISR 12 once LWSC had achieved the agreed actions.

36.     Component B suffered from high turnover of high level staff, and this affected timely
decision making. MLGH also lacked the capacity for procurement and contract management and
these were the major causes of delays that led to only partial completion of the consultancy for
development of a National WSS Policy. However, this component did also achieve significant
outcomes in developing a joint financing arrangement for both urban and rural water supply and
sanitation, building the capacity of MLGH through training, technical assistance and equipment.


                                                10
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E Design
37.     The project was monitored using two key M&E tools: (i) the Results Framework that was
developed during project preparation for monitoring the performance of the project in meeting
the development objectives of the project and approved at appraisal and included in the PAD,
and (ii) the DFAPE that was developed and signed between GRZ (represented by MLGH) and
LWSC as an incentivized tool for monitoring the performance of LWSC and implemented under
Component A. Many of the indicators in the DFAPE were derived from and were consistent with
those listed in the Results Framework. The performance audits of LWSC in meeting the targets
in the DFAPE set for each year was prepared by independent auditor and reported to an
autonomous Development Financing Agreement Review Committee (DFARC) set up for this
purpose. The Bank consistently monitored LWSC’s performance under the DFAPE during
implementation.

M&E Implementation and Utilization
38.     Throughout implementation, the utilization of M&E tools revealed that the DFAPE was a
dynamic monitoring as well as a management tool for LWSC. The performance of LWSC in
meeting the targets set for each year of project operation was monitored through a Special
Performance Audit that was reported to the DFARC. A total of four annual audits were carried
out of which LWSC met the aggregated minimum performance targets in three audited years and
incentive bonuses were paid to participating deserving staff as per the agreement. The
Agreement set tangible goals and targets for staff, monitored change in services over time and
enabled the utility to quickly react to any negative forewarnings. The periodic quarterly reporting
to IDA and the annual independent audit with public disclosure created an effective evaluation
instrument that allowed for a dialogue between agencies and between the client and the Bank.
LWSC chose to continue to utilize the Performance Agreements after its initial three year period
and continues to use it today, which manifests its value as a management and M&E tool.
However this tool must be further supported financially especially the monitoring part of it.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard Compliance
39.    The ICR assesses safeguards compliance as satisfactory. The project was appraised as
Category B project. Two safeguards policies were triggered by the original project –
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The
Borrower completed the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) in full
compliance with the relevant Zambian and World Bank standards. The Environmental and Social
Management Framework, including the Environment Management Plan (EMP) and Resettlement
Policy Framework were approved and disclosed in the Infoshop, as well as in Zambia, prior to
appraisal of the original project, in April 2006.

40.    In addition to the above safeguard policies, Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
7.50) was also triggered because the Additional Financing funded repairs to the intakes and other
minor works on the Zambezi River at Luangwa and the Kafue River at Kafue. As these works
were not expected to adversely affect the quantity or quality of water flows to other riparians, an
exception to the notification requirement under the OP/BP 7.50 was requested and was approved
by the Bank on August19, 2008.The Borrower updated the existing Environmental and Social
                                                11
Management Framework, Environment Management Plan and Resettlement Policy Framework
to include the four townships in the three new districts that were brought under LWSC to be
supported by the Additional Financing. LWSC engaged an environmental specialist (consultant)
to supervise and ensure compliance with environmental standards and safeguards in the project.
LWSC has made efforts to ensure that upgrades, rehabilitation, and drilling of new boreholes
causes minimal impact on surrounding communities and their assets. The Bank’s project team
included safeguards specialist and safeguards have been rated as Satisfactory in all ISRs of the
project. The safeguards specialist conducted a dedicated safeguards mission in April 2013 and
found the project in compliance with all safeguard policies.

Fiduciary Compliance
Financial Management Compliance
41.     The ICR rates Financial Management compliance under the project as Satisfactory
overall, considering both project preparation and implementation aspects. Disbursements under
both the original and additional financings have improved over time with withdrawal
applications (WAs) submitted regularly. The computerization of the ACCPAC financial
management system has been completed and basic training has been provided to the users.
Financial performance of Lusaka Water and Sewerage Co. Ltd has continued to improve and
notable ratios that have improved from inception of the project to 30 June 2013, include turnover
(163%), Cost of Sales (124%) and profit (146%). Financial management rating of the project was
Satisfactory in all ISRs.

Procurement Compliance
42.     Procurement was rated Satisfactory in the early years of the project, but was rated
Moderately Satisfactory in the last 4 ISRs and upgraded to Satisfactory in the last ISR
following substantial improvement in procurement management by LWSC in particular. The
Project’s procurement processes improved over the course of the project. Early on, there was
insufficient understanding among the client agencies of the Bank procurement guidelines.
Inadequate knowledge of the market and prevailing market prices by the engineering staff for
various contracts led to delays to finalize contract awards and resulted in dropping some of the
activities due to limitations in funding. These led to delays which persisted throughout the life of
the project. Difficulties stemmed also from sometimes underperforming consultants and
contractors, which required tight contract management and supervision. Despite increased
capacity in the later years following more intense involvement of the Bank team, challenges
related to the difficult coordination between the engineering and procurement staff on the project
teams remained. Contract management proved challenging and negatively affected timely
delivery of goods, works and services.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
43.     The following activities will contribute to the sustainability of the achievements under the
Project:
        • LWSC has continued to use performance incentives to motivate staff to consolidate
           the performance improvements under the project, as recommended in the Human
           Resources Strategy. Payment has been from LWSC’s own resources thus the
           performance incentives have been institutionalized.

                                                12
       •   LWSC has been able to attract other donors and cooperating partners as a result of the
           success of the WSPIP project. The Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) is
           financing LWSC and Lusaka City Council to the tune of USD 355 million for water,
           sanitation and stormwater drainage activities, and has extended many of the
           instruments development under the project to improve performance, such as a
           sustainability agreement.
       •   The European Investment Bank (EIB), African Development Bank (AfDB) and
           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) have expressed interest to finance the
           rehabilitation of the Manchinchi and Chunga Sewage works. To date EIB financed
           the pre-feasibility study for this proposed project. EIB has also promised to co-
           finance up to 50% of project costs. Recently, GRZ requested the Bank to continue
           support for the sector. A potential sanitation project was included in its Country
           Partnership Strategy (CPS) (February 2013).
       •   LWSC and the Bank have submitted a proposal to the Public Private Infrastructure
           Advisory Facility (PPIAF) to further support institutional strengthening and improved
           governance of LWSC.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
3.1.1 Objectives
Rating: High
44.     The overall relevance of the objectives remains high. They remain consistent with
Zambia’s development priorities in the sector and on-going commitment to urban and rural water
sector reforms and emerging issues. As implementation progressed, the need for additional
financing was necessitated by the expanded jurisdiction of LWSC to include four townships
(Kafue, Chilanga, Chongwe, and Luangwa) in the three districts of Kafue, Chongwe and
Luangwa. There was a critical need for WS infrastructure investment in these townships to
sustain and expand the water supply services, and for enhancing the technical efficiency and the
capacity of LWSC to shoulder the additional responsibility. The revised objectives were
consistent with the Fifth National Development Plan that encapsulates GRZ’s goal for the water
sector, in line with the World Bank’s 2008 CAS has, among other interventions, a focus on
strengthening institutional and policy frameworks to support delivery systems for water supply
and sanitation in both urban and rural towns.

45.      The focus of the project on institutional reform of LWSC and support the MLGH to
further nationwide reforms was also highly relevant. As discussed in section 2.1, the project
drew on best practice for water utility reform by focusing on improving the utilities performance
first, before providing significant investment finance, which can often not be cost effective until
the utilities efficiency is improved.

3.1.2 Design and Implementation
Rating: Substantial
46.    The project design and implementation are relevant to achieve the PDO. The WSPIP was
designed as a three year SIL to improve the water supply and sanitation services delivery in
Lusaka and simultaneously address the underlying institutional weaknesses and financial

                                                13
viability of LWSC and supported to the parent ministry, MLGH, in addressing strategic issues of
the sector.

47.     An important element of the design is the DFAPE. As mentioned in section 2.1, the
DFAPE was an innovative tool designed to improve LWSC’s performance first prior to
leveraging significant investment support. The DFAPE provided incentives for improved
performance based on agreed targets that improved cost recovery, improved metering, reduced
non-revenue water and overall improved the financial and operational performance of LWSC.
The primary impact of the DFAPE was that it transformed LWSC from a loss-making entity, into
a modern water utility with a positive cash flow (revenues exceed operational costs by 30%),
thus enabling LWSC to attract substantial investment finance (through the MCC, and potential
other financiers). The DFAPE had buy-in by all stake holders (MoF, MLGH, NWASCO, and
Cooperating Partners (CPs) and was signed between the GRZ (represented by MLGH) and
LWSC. To accommodate the addition of new areas that were brought under the jurisdiction of
LWSC, a Deed of Variation to DFAPE was agreed and used for auditing the performance in
these areas.

48.      The design of the AF was relevant in addressing the expanded LWSC service area that
had been increased during implementation to incorporate the three surrounding districts of Kafue,
Chongwe and Luangwa. The level of service in the four townships of these three districts
(including Chilanga township) was far below Lusaka city, which created a challenge for the
financial and operational performance of LWSC. Therefore the focus of the AF to improve
services in these areas, and thus relieve the potential burden they would have on LWSC was
appropriate. Even though there were some difficulties in implementation, the expanded project
was able to substantially achieve its development objectives. However, one of the revised PDO
targets, dealing with additional 40,000 people in the four townships have access to improved
water supply, was ambitious given the time and resources that were available. Certainly
production has been increased to supply the proposed additional people. This should have been
realistically adjusted at the last restructuring.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
49.     The ICR rates the project as Moderately Satisfactory in terms of meeting its
development objectives based on achievements against the key PDO outcome indicators of both
the original and the revised project objectives. The project’s objectives have been formally
revised and the assessment weighs achievements in proportion to the share of actual credit
disbursements made in the periods before and after approval of the revision. At the time of PDO
restructuring in April 2009, credit disbursements were at 20.18 percent.

Achievement of the original Development Objective
50.    The original Project Development Objectives (PDO) were: to support (i) the
improvement of access to, and sustainability of, the water supply and sanitation services for
consumers in Lusaka; and (ii) development of a comprehensive institutional structure supporting
a coordinated approach to water supply and sanitation investments. As designed, the original
PDO has two outcome indicators, one for each PDO. The outcome indicator for PDO (i) was:
LWSC achieves coverage of operational costs through its operational revenues. The achievement
                                              14
of this outcome is built on achieving improved service delivery and operational efficiency
leading to reduced losses, increased customer base, improved billing and collection efficiency,
and reduced costs. The outcome indicator for PDO (ii) is: Investment program for WSS agreed
by MLGH and contributing donors.

51.    At project closing, achievement of PDO (i) has been exceeded (130% against target of
100%), while for PDO (ii) the achievement is partial because while the investment program for
rural WSS has been agreed by MLGH and the Cooperating Partners, the one for urban was
pending. However, it is significantly advanced: the MoU and Joint Financing Agreement for the
National Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Program have been drafted and submitted to
Cooperating Partners for comment, both documents prepared under the project.

52.    Surprisingly, the objective of improving access to water services did not have a
corresponding outcome indicator; however, one of the intermediate indicators did refer to
increased access. The intermediate indicator refers to the provision of 100 new communal
connections in peri-urban areas which would serve 5,000 people. This indicator was almost fully
achieved with the provision of 99 functional communal standpipes, serving an estimated 4,950
people, although LWSC believes that actual number of people being serviced by these standpipes
is much higher. Achievement of the original objective is therefore rated as Moderately
Satisfactory against the original PDO.

Achievement of the Revised Development Objective
53.      The revised Project Development Objectives (PDO) were: to (i) improve the technical
efficiency and financial sustainability of LWSC and improve access to water supply and
sanitation services, for urban consumers in Lusaka, Kafue, Chongwe, and Luangwa districts, and
(ii) strengthen the effectiveness of national water supply and sanitation planning. Thus the
revised PDO has three outcome indicators. The outcome indicators for PDO (i) are two (a)
LWSC achieves 100% coverage of operational costs through its operational revenues - this
outcome is the same as that of the original PDO and is basically identical to it; and (b) an
additional 40,000 people in the three districts - Kafue, Chongwe, and Luangwa - have access to
safe water by end of project; the indicator for PDO (ii) is (c) A common WSS financing
mechanism agreed by MLGH and contributing donors.

54.     At project closing, achievement of the three key indicators is as follows: (a) the
achievement of cost coverage has been exceeded - 130% against the target of 100%; (b) only
additional 9,000 people had access to safe water supply services against the target of 40,000, thus
achievement is partial; and (c) the achievement is partial because while the financing mechanism
for rural WSS has been agreed by MLGH and the contributing donors, the one for urban was
pending. Thus the achievement is assessed as being partial and is rated as Moderately
Satisfactory against the original PDO.

55.     While the project fell short of the access targets from the AF, the ICR assess achieving of
revised PDO as MS due to the fundamentally institutional reform focus and achievements of the
Project. The Project did not provide significant investment finance. Against an estimated US$3
billion needed for water and sewerage in Lusaka (estimated by MCC), US$33 million (1%) is not
sufficient to make a significant impact in improved coverage. In addition, the investments
                                                15
financed under the Project were mainly in increased production into the network, and less into
distribution, therefore the indicators relating to increased access should have been adjusted
accordingly. Almost all of the intermediate indicators were met or surpassed. These are mainly
on improved water supply (water quality, hours of supply etc.) and improved efficiency for
LWSC (metering, collection rates). The achievement of the intermediate outcome indicators
supports the case for the MS rating, even though the access targets fell short. However, the
primary reason to retain the MS rating for the revised PDO is due to the significant institutional
strengthening achievements of the project. As a direct result of the Project (as stated by MCC to
the ICR team), LWSC has been able to attract significant investment support from MCC
(US$355 million) and has obtained interest from many other financiers for further investment. In
addition, the reforms that started under the Project are being extended through the installation of
a large number of pre-paid meters that should further improve the bill collection efficiency and
therefore the financial viability of the utility. The improved performance of LWSC over the life
of the project has been independently verified by the national utility regulator (NWASCO) in
their annual reports. It shows that LWSC has gone from one of the worst performers of the 11
Commercial Utilities in Zambia to one of the best, and much of the improvements are due to the
increased connections under the project, increased metering and other performance
improvements attributable to the Project.

56.     Both the original PDO and the revised PDO included outcome indicators for component
2, in the original PDO this was “Investment program for WSS agreed by MLGH and
contributing donors”, and in the revised PDO: “A common WSS financing mechanism agreed by
MLGH and contributing donors.” While this component received a modest budget (US$1
million) and progress lagged at various stages during implementation, the component did have
significant impacts at the national level. The project supported the development of a joint
financing agreement between the Government and the Cooperating Partners for both rural and
urban WSS. The rural program has been fully agreed and is being implemented, and the urban
program has been drafted and a Joint Financing Agreement proposed by the Government. The
project also built the capacity of MLGH in a period in which the Ministry was undertaking
significant expansion and reform, through a range of training activities, vehicles and equipment
and technical assistance for the national WSS policy and the joint financing agreements.

57.    The aggregated achievement of the PDO has to be made based on the assessment of
achievements against project objectives weighed in proportion to the share of actual credit
disbursements made in the period before and after approval of the revisions. The total project
disbursement at closing is 95.68%. The actual disbursement at approval of Additional Financing
was 20.18%, while the balance 75.50 % was disbursed after approval of the revision.

Table 2: Aggregated Assessment of Achievement of PDOs
                                  Against original PDOs   Against revised PDOs       Overall
   1    Rating                             MS                      MS
   2    Rating value                        4                       4
   3    Weight (% disbursed
                                         20.18%                   75.50%              95.68%
        before/after PDO change
   4    Weighted value (2x3)              0.81                     3.02                 3.83
   5    Final rating (rounded)                                                      Moderately
                                                                                    Satisfactory

                                                  16
3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Substantial
58.     As a result of the project, LWSC has shown considerable progress. Operationally, the
number of connections has increased from 53,653 to 67,549 or by about 26%, between 2007 and
2013. The metering ratio has increased considerably, from 48% in 2007 to 65% in 2012—a
direct result of the project which financed new meters. The collection ratio has increased from
91% to 96% and NRW has been reduced from 51% to 48%, modest but significant considering
the resources allocated and the time. Financially, the LWSC has generally been on a positive
trend. Prior to 2007, LWSC had generally not been able to cover its operating costs (much less
cover depreciation of its assets or to finance rehabilitation or expansion). Over the last several
years, LWSC has shown improved operating ratios, and has been able to cover its depreciation
expense, interest expense, and provisions for uncollected revenues for several years. That said,
financial performance deteriorated somewhat in 2012, recording a net loss, and because most
comparisons here are between 2012 and 2007, the improving trends seen in 2009, 2010, and
2011 are not necessarily evident.

59.     Financial and economic analysis of the investment was carried out at project appraisal.
The financial analysis resulted in a projected Net Present Value (NPV) and Financial Internal
Rate of Return (FIRR) of ZK22 billion and 17% respectively. The post-project financial analysis
projections (at December 16, 2013, and based on the LWSC’s actual operational performance
2007-2013), resulted in an FIRR of 24% and an NPV ZK93.4 billion.

60.     The original economic analysis for the project indicated an expected Internal Rate of
Return (IRR) of 29% and an NPV of US$17.6 million based on a discount rate of 10 percent
(including estimates of benefits stemming from: (i) incremental water sales resulting from
additional production; (ii) cost savings for consumers benefitting from new standposts in peri-
urban areas; and (iii) time savings for consumers benefitting from new standposts in peri-urban
areas). As part of this ICR, the original economic analysis was reviewed—it appears that there
may have been several major errors in both the economic model and in the spreadsheet
calculations that, combined, overstated the project returns. These errors are described in more
detail in Annex 3 and include: (i) incremental water sales resulting from additional production
seem to have been double-counted; (ii) cost savings for consumers benefitting from new
standposts in peri-urban areas were significantly overstated due to an error in the spreadsheet
calculations; (iii) the economic analysis did not include the time savings accruing to households
with new individual household connections either in conventional (non-peri-urban) or peri-urban
areas.

61.     The economic analysis for the ICR was a simplification of the original, calculating only
the time savings accruing to new LWSC customers. Based on information in the PAD regarding
the cost of water for non-LWSC customers, it did not appear that consumers’ cost savings would
be a significant factor in the analysis. And, despite likely improvements in the quality of water,
the analysis has not assessed the value of health benefits to new customers. The analysis,
calculated for a 20-year period following the end of the project (that is, until 2032) resulted in an
IRR of 19% and a NPV, discounted at 10%, of US$9.35 million.



                                                 17
                                          At Appraisal                        At ICR
Financial IRR                                 17                                24
Economic IRR                                  29                                19

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
62.       The overall outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory on balance because: (i) the
project’s objective remained highly relevant, and the project’s design and implementation are
relevant, as described above; (ii) the project achieved its objective with minor shortcomings; and
(iii) efficiency was substantial as indicated above.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
63.     While there was no impact evaluation conducted at any stage of the project, the project
improved the reliability and quality of the water supplies in Lusaka and the townships in the
three districts under the jurisdiction of LWSC. Additional water has been provided in all areas,
the quality of treatment has been improved substantially, and specific target to improving and
expanding supplies to low income peri-urban areas has been achieved as captured in the Special
Performance Audits carried out annually in the last four years as part of the implementation of
DFAPE. Thus it is fair to state that in providing access to safe water to these beneficiaries many
of whom are poor, the project improved the well-being of these people and likely had some
impact on overall poverty reduction. Similarly impacts on gender are envisaged to have been
positive given that women and children are usually responsible for managing water, sanitation,
and hygiene related issues at the household and community levels. The ICR notes that it may
have been useful for the project to more rigorously assess improvements in public health as a
result of the project.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening
64.     In order to achieve the objective of improving the technical efficiency and financial
viability of LWSC, a performance management system has been developed and all employees
trained and the system implemented starting 2009. Technical assistance and goods were provided
to enhance the technical and financial capacity of LWSC. Support was provided towards
restructuring of LWSC aimed at integrating the management of the Additional Districts within
the LWSC’s corporate structure through the provision of goods, consultants’ services and
training. As a result, the performance of LWSC has improved substantially and it has managed
to break-even financially. While the capacity of MLGH remains weak, its important policy and
coordination role in the sector means that continued and more directed capacity building was
needed.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
65.     The project impact on the performance of LWSC and its transformation from a losing
entity to a financially and technically viable utility has been instrumental in changing the
perception of other Cooperating Partners (CPs) in the water and sanitation sector in Zambia. The
WSPIP project model and Kalingalinga pilot sanitation project have helped in obtaining a grant
of US$355mn from the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) to support water, sanitation
and drainage in Lusaka City. The project’s engagement in rehabilitation and expansion of the
                                               18
water supply system in Chongwe attracted DANIDA’s finance for construction of a modular
water treatment plant to assist in provision of improved and sustainable access to safe drinking
water. In addition, EIB financed a pre-feasibility study for a sanitation project in Lusaka which
AfDB and KfW have expressed interest in financing.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
66.    No formal beneficiary survey was conducted at the completion of the project. However,
feedback obtained from customers during site visits during the ICR mission revealed that the
project has led to improvement in services particularly in the peri urban areas with the
construction of 100 water kiosks in Lusaka. Feedbacks from customers during site visits in the
four townships have also indicated that the quantity, quality and reliability of the water supplies
have improved considerably. There was also a strong support from the customers for the pre-paid
meters since they now pay for what they consume unlike in the past when payment was for
assessed quantities and not consistent with actual consumption.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial
67.     Before the project, LWSC was a loss-making utility mainly due to poor management,
high losses and low collection rates. Through the course of the project, and to a large degree as a
result of the technical assistance and investments financed under the project, LWSC is now a
well-managed utility with significant efficiency gains and has broken-even financially. More
significantly, with the backing of the project, LWSC has been able to attract more significant
investment funds – the US$355 million grant from MCC, and interest from EIB, AfDB, KfW,
JICA to finance additional investments.

68.     The major obstacle to the financial viability of LWSC was non-payment of arrears by
government institutions. While a significant number of institutions have improved their timely
payments, the problem lingers. The MCC project required clearance of public arrears as an
“entry into force” condition, and this was achieved, allowing entry into force on November 15,
2013. As a long term strategy, LWSC has embarked on a program of installation of pre-paid
meters, and the project has financed the procurement of aver 18,000 prepaid meters which are
being installed on new connections and replacement of old meters. At project closure LWSC had
installed over 6,000 prepaid meters in Lusaka and the four townships. The GRZ has shown
strong support by having pre-paid meters installed at state house and giving directives to
government institutions to cooperate with LWSC in the installation of the meters. However, the
ICR assesses that the problem of poor payment from government institutions remains a
substantial threat to the outcomes achieved by the Project. The ICR recognizes that the use of
prepaid meters is relatively new to the sector, and the region, and notes that the project has
contributed to a forthcoming study lead by the Water and Sanitation Program on the
effectiveness of prepaid meters to improve service delivery. Lusaka is one of six case studies of
the study.

69.    Groundwater management needs more focus in view of its contributions to drinking
water in Lusaka and the risk of over-abstraction and contamination. The project had financed the
development of 10 high yielding boreholes to augment the water supply in Lusaka. Given that
groundwater (boreholes) contribute 53% of the drinking water in Lusaka, there is need for
                                                19
Lusaka to prepare a groundwater master plan to address among other things water availability,
monitoring and protection in the wake of the expansion of the city and extensive dependency on
onsite sanitation estimated at over 80% of the properties. The proposed new sanitation project
will also help address this issue.

70.      Sustainability: It is important that the improvements achieved through the project are at
least maintained or improved. The ICR Team noted that the company has made huge strides in
re-arranging and streamlining its institutional arrangements. The company has also positioned
itself to be able to collect more revenue through the installation of meters to previously non-
metered customers and more particularly through the installation of pre-paid meters. However
the taking over of more service areas by the company of which most are very small and far e.g.
Luangwa (350 km and current customer base of 4,000) will certainly increase the operational
costs of the company including supervision and oversight. Thus there is need for further
institutional review, possibly restructuring and streamlining to ensure profitability is enhanced.
LWSC will need to sustain efforts to ensure arrears (both public and private) are eradicated and
in the long run put measures in place to ensure arrears are minimized/eradicated. Such measures
include installation of pre-paid meters. The mission learnt that LWSC has adopted a performance
based incentive system which started in 2011 drawing from the WSPIP Project. However there is
need for careful review of the structure and level of the incentive to ensure continuity of
motivation of staff.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
71.      The Bank facilitated preparation and appraised the operation such that it was most likely
to achieve planned development outcomes and was consistent with the Bank’s fiduciary role. A
Quality Enhancement Review was carried out by the Bank before the project appraisal that
discussed appropriateness of the financing instrument, use of incentivized performance
agreement and buy-in from GRZ and the regulator and implementation capacity of the
implementing agencies. The project was consistent with the Government’s development
priorities. While the project was prepared as a two phased APL flexibility was demonstrated by
the Bank in moving forward with a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) on the basis of GRZ request,
and with additional financing half way through implementation of the original SIL to ensure that
the development objectives of the project would be achieved. However, the ICR has downgraded
the rating of the Bank’s performance at ensuring quality at entry from S to MS due to the
extended preparation time, and due to the shortcomings of the results framework. The project
design did not sufficiently shift from the original APL (in which the first phase would focus on
institutional strengthening and subsequent phases on investment) to the final SIL. The PDO
included increases access as an objective, but this was not included as PDO indicator, and this
has resulted in inadequate focus in the results framework. The original implementation period of
3 years was also too short for this type of institutional reform project.




                                               20
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
72.     The implementation of the activities under the original credit was delayed due to delayed
payment by GRZ on settlement of the lapsed loan in completed projects. While this is outside the
control of the project, the Bank continued to provide technical support and advice to the
implementing agencies in preparatory activities, until funds flow began and implementation
commenced. The project had three TTLs during its lifetime. This had an impact on continuity
and institutional memory. However, the last two TTLs were based in the field in the region and
this enabled them to have a close follow up on implementation progress through frequent short
technical follow up visits with key team members. The major weaknesses and threats to progress
of implementation were repeatedly flagged by the Bank Team and solutions for improvement
suggested to the implementing entities. These had led to reorganization of the PIU and training
and designation of dedicated staff to key sub projects. This resulted in major improvements in
implementation and completion of sub projects.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
73.     The overall Bank performance is based on the Moderately Satisfactory rating in both
quality at entry and quality of supervision dimensions.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
74.      The Government’s performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The project was high
in the Country’s priorities for the water and sanitation sector and the Government remained
strongly committed to achieve the PDO. However, once the original credit was approved and
became effective, it took GRZ nine (9) months to pay the lapsed loan payment of US$680,000,
during which project implementation virtually stalled. The lost implementation time was made
up for by a request by Government for extension of the closing date by one year, and subsequent
Bank approval. The Government requested for Additional Financing for the project to enable
achievement of the development objectives. The condition for its effectiveness, which was
payment by GRZ of arrears of water and sewerage services billed by LWSC to government
ministries and departments, was not met in a timely manner. It took 23 months for the GRZ to
fulfill the conditions of effectiveness for the AF. This was a serious obstacle to implementation
of the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
75.     Both implementing agencies (LWSC, and MLGH) faced procurement, financial
management capacity and overall implementation constraints. Both agencies faced challenges at
several occasions during implementation. Challenges related to weak coordination between
technical and procurement staff as well as weak contract management capacity and finally their
inability to maintain sufficient staff throughout the life of the project. Despite these challenges,
the implementing agencies were committed to the project and the PDO, and in the case of LWSC
fully embraced the DFAPE instrument, improved its performance, both technical and financial,
which became the main factor for its substantial success. With regard to MLGH, the high turn-

                                                21
over of higher management staff had a negative impact on implementation of its component
(Component B) to the extent that an important consultancy could be completed only partially
during the project implementation period. As project implementation advanced and the
implementation agencies gained experience with Bank practices, the agencies delivered on their
respective roles, which allowed for remarkable improvement in implementation of and nearly
full disbursement of the loan and substantial achievement of the PDO.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
76.     Overall Borrower performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory based on the ratings for
each of the two dimensions.

6. Lessons Learned
77.     Performance contracts can be an effective tool to improve service delivery: The use of
the Development Financing Agreement for Performance Enhancement (DFAPE) in the
implementation of the project has proven to be very effective in helping LWSC achieve
significant financial performance and improved service delivery and overall efficiency through
relatively modest IDA funds. The institutional strengthening of LWSC to continue the
performance improvement achieved under WSPIP needs to be continued and sustained as turning
around an institution is not simply achievable through one operation. The performance
contracting mechanism needs to be further explored to link the incentive system to LWSC’s
operational resources. The potential grant from the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory
Facility (PPIAF) that was discussed recently with MoF could provide technical assistance in
performance contracting. In order not to lose momentum in other areas of institutional
strengthening, it is critical that the Bank consider supporting LWSC as part of possible follow on
support to the sector. The ICR has contributed to a forthcoming note on the use of performance
contracts to improve water services in African water utilities.

78.     There is a need for vigilance on quality of designs and appropriate contract packaging:
Major causes of delays in implementation were inadequate designs and specifications and
inappropriate contract packaging. The former resulted in variation in scope and cost overruns,
and the later led to failure to attract qualified contractors and suppliers. In addition, in-house
designs if not properly carried out and subjected to quality control, may result in poor
specifications. Sufficient attention need to be paid to these issues in the project design stage.

79.     There is a need for early involvement of stakeholders for timely completion of works:
Completion of works and commissioning of the 10 boreholes in Lusaka was substantially
delayed due to delayed connection of electricity since the Zambia Electric Supply Company
(ZESCO), the Power Utility Company, was not involved in good time. However, this was
corrected under the contracts for supply and installation of a Modular Water Treatment Plant in
Luangwa and the construction of three boreholes in Chilanga where ZESCO was engaged in
good time and the contracts did not experience any significant delays.

80.    The Government needs to assign qualified and dedicated contract management staff for
large contracts: while the use of dedicated PIUs (with qualified staff in the key areas of
engineering, procurement and financial management) within the structure of utilities helps to
                                               22
focus on project implementation as separate from day to day operations, it is important to assign
dedicated contract management staff for specific large contracts for more focused attention. This
become more important in projects implemented in distant centers (such as Luangwa). It was
observed that slow moving contracts picked up speed when the PIU of LWSC assigned dedicated
qualified staff to the works in the four townships.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies
81.     The client prepared and submitted a detailed completion report for the project (attached
to this ICR as Annex 7). The report clearly identified the challenges faced with respect to
procurement, contract management and cost escalations. The client’s completion report also
resonates with the Bank’s appreciation of the Performance Agreement between the GRZ and the
utility LWSC as a powerful management tool that helped focus and achieve improvements in
service delivery. Overall the Borrower assessed the achievement of the PDO as substantial.

(b) Co-financiers
N/A

(c) Other Partners and Stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                               23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                          Actual/Latest
                                            Appraisal Estimate                                  Percentage of
               Components                                                   Estimate
                                             (USD millions)                                      Appraisal
                                                                         (USD millions)
Component A                                          18.50                     31.90                  172
Component B                                           1.10                      1.10                  100
               Total Baseline Cost                   19.60                     33.00
Physical and Price Contingencies                      3.40                      0.00                  0.00
                Total Project Costs                  23.00                     33.00
Front-end fee PPF                                     0.00                      0.00                 0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                    0.00                      0.00                 0.00
        Total Financing Required                     23.00                     33.00                143.48

(b) Financing
                                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                   Type of                                     Percentage of
                Source of Funds                                    Estimate       Estimate
                                                 Cofinancing                                    Appraisal
                                                                 (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                            0.00           0.00            0.00
International Development Association
                                                                      23.00            33.00              143.48
(IDA)

(c ) Project Eligible Expenditure and Disbursement
                                             Allocated                        Disbursed
                Category                     Amount                            Amount             (%) Disbursed
                                              (USD)                             (USD)
 1)Goods, Works, Cons, Training Part 1          27,938,074                     26,645,976.96                       95.4

2)Operating costs Part 1                                     4,707,797          3,946,300.82                       83.8
3) Refund of PPF advance                                       463,062            464,896.19                       100
4) Goods, Works, Cons, Training Part 2                       1,157655             559,093.08                       48.3
DA-A Designated Account                                              0             -41,917.50
DA-B Designated Account                                              0               1,630.26
Total                                                     34,266,588           31,575,979.81                  92.15 1




1
    With respect to the original credit amount in equivalent USD, the total disbursement becomes 95.68%

                                                          24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A: Support to LWSC
Under Original WSPIP: the outputs are
(a)     Support to implementation of the DFAPE, including consultancy services, goods, and works and
operating costs. Under this sub-component the following outputs were achieved in Lusaka:
    • Works: Installed 30,000 domestic (15mm) and 181 Bulk post-paid meters; Constructed 100 water
        Kiosks in selected peri-urban areas; Constructed 1no customer service center for Central Branch
        in Lusaka; Installed 202no prepaid meters on premises of government agencies; Installed power
        factor correction equipment on our major pumps at Iolanda Water Works.
    • Goods: Procured the following: 18,000 prepaid domestic meters and 237 installed to date in
        Lusaka; Installed SCADA system in Lusaka and Iolanda treatment plant; Installed a financial and
        business enterprise resource planning solution, Sage Accpac at LWSC; Procured computer and
        office equipment, software and imagery for the GIS, specialized leak detection equipment,
        Laboratory equipment to improve water quality monitoring, GPS Survey equipment, water
        distribution materials for network repairs, various specialized water and sewer equipment, 33no
        motor vehicles and fleet management software to enhance operations, water treatment chemicals
        for Lusaka, pumps and valves for boreholes.
    • Consulting Services and Operating Costs: Supervision services for installation of customer and
        bulk meters; Conducted a special performance audit for DFAPE; Paid performance incentive to
        deserving employees for year 1, 3 and 4 of the DFAPE; Paid for electricity bills, license fees and
        operational costs relating to operation and maintenance of 33no new fleet of vehicles for Lusaka.

 (b)    Rehabilitation works for bulk water production, repair of distribution systems, repair of sewer
networks and plants and boreholes, including carrying out of related studies, designs and supervision
services, through the provision of consultants’ services, goods, works and operating costs. The following
outputs were achieved under this sub-component in Lusaka:
     • Works: Rehabilitated Iolanda Water Works and Transmission main; Constructed 10 new
        boreholes; Rehabilitated LWW Plant 1 and Lumumba booster stations; Rehabilitated reservoirs
        and water distribution networks,
     • Consulting Services: Carried out supervision services for Emergency works; Conducted an audit
        of the environmental management plan; Prepared designs for sewer networks and treatment
        plants; Conducted a study to improve efficiency of the Sedimentation and Filtration systems at
        Iolanda treatment plant in Kafue, and conducted an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
        of the WSPIP Additional Financing for water supply and sanitation services in 3 district towns of
        Chilanga, Chongwe, Kafue and Luangwa.

 (c)    Design and implementation of a human resource strategy through the provision of technical
assistance and training and performance payments. The following outputs were achieved under this sub-
component:
        • Engaged a consultant to design a performance management system (PMS),
        • Trained all employees in PMS, and
        • Implemented a performance management system (PMS) for all employees in 2009

Under WSPIP Additional Financing: the outputs are
(a)     Rehabilitation works for bulk water production; Repair of distribution systems; Repair of sewer
networks and plants and boreholes, including carrying out of related studies, designs and supervision
services, through the provision of consultants’ services, goods, works and operating costs. The following
outputs were achieved under each township:

                                                   25
1.       Kafue
         • Replaced 3no intake pumps complete with motor control center, electromagnetic meters and
             dozing pump and rehabilitated the intake structure;
         • Replaced the 3no high lift pumps, 2no back wash pumps, 1no compressor, 1no vacuum
             pump, electromagnetic flow meter and gas chlorination system at Kaseba Treatment plant
             complete with motor control center;
         • Rehabilitated the sedimentation tanks, lime mixing chamber, pulsating chamber, filter media
             complete with under drain system at Kaseba treatment plant;
         • Replaced 12 no pumps at 6no sewage pump stations; and
         • Renewed 2,500m of DN500mm transmission main from reservoirs to Estates area.
2.       Chilanga
         • Constructed 2no new boreholes, 600m of DN150mm rising main and a new 105m3 ground
             reservoir at Game and Fisheries;
         • Constructed 1no new borehole, rehabilitated 1no existing borehole, constructed
             pump/chlorination house complete with 2 no high lift pumps and gas chlorination system at
             Chilanga Estates;
         • Constructed 680m of DN150mm rising main from pump/chlorination house to elevated
             reservoir at Chilanga Estates; and
         • Replaced existing 135m3 reservoir at Chilanga Estates.
3.       Chongwe
         • Installed 1no 300m3/h high lift pump and the water treatment plant;
         • Constructed 1,600m of DN250mm rising main from the treatment plant to elevated tank at
             LWSC office;
         • Replaced existing 450m3 and 490m3 elevated tanks at LWSC office and Chongwe Secondary
             school respectively; and
         • Renewed 6km of existing and constructed 3.2km of new water distribution network.
4.       Luangwa
         • Constructed new intake structure on the Zambezi river complete with 2no new pumps;
         • Constructed 898m of DN200mm rising main from intake to treatment plant;
         • Installed a new 120m3/h capacity modular water treatment plant complete with high lift
             pumps;
         • Rehabilitated ground reservoir and replaced old 80m3 elevated reservoir; and
         • Constructed a new chlorination shelter complete with gas chlorination system.
(b)      Support towards restructuring of LWSC aimed at integrating the management of the Additional
Districts within the LWSC corporate structure through the provision of goods, consultants’ services and
training. The following were achieved:
         • Installed 6,143 prepaid domestic meters in Chongwe, Kafue and Luangwa; installed SCADA
             system in Kafue Town;
         • Procured Motor Vehicles, one each for Chilanga, Chongwe, Kafue and Luangwa;
         • Procured computer and office equipment for Chongwe, Kafue and Luangwa; and Procured
             Laboratory Equipment for Luangwa.

Component B: Support to MLGH through the provision of goods, TA and Training
The support to MLGH was only under the original financing. There were three activities:
(a)     Provision of technical assistance for the development of a national water supply and sanitation
policy.
        • Consultant was engaged and the development of the policy was at 2nd draft stage as at credit
           closing date of 30th June 2013. The MLGH will finance the completion of the policy
           (scheduled by December 2013) from its own resources.
                                                  26
(b)     Provision of technical assistance for the development of a financing mechanism for the water
supply and sanitation sector.
        • A financing mechanism was developed and agreed for rural water supply and sanitation
             program.
(c)     Carrying out a program of activities related to the development of the sanitation and hygiene
component of the National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program including strengthening the
capacity of staff of the MLGH through the provision of technical assistance, Training and goods.
        • Procured computer and office equipment for the Department of Housing and Infrastructure
             Development (DHID).
        • Procured 5no vehicles for the expanded DHID.




                                                 27
      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

                                         Lusaka Water and Sewerage Company Limited
                                    Economic and Financial Analysis for the years 2008 to 2013

     I.          LWSC Operational and Financial Analysis

     1.      As part of the ICR review, key operational and financial results were reviewed and analyzed in
     order to assess overall performance in the context of project investments, as well as to provide a base for
     an economic analysis of net project benefits. LWSC provided all data reviewed. Key figures for fiscal
     years 2007 through 2012 are summarized below.

                                              Lusaka Water and Sewerage Company
                                        Key Operational and Financial Indicators, 2007 – 2012
                                               Kwacha ‘000 except where indicated
                                                    2007                 2008                 2009                 2010                2011          2012
Key Operational Information:
Water Produced (Average per day;
                                                  210,464              214,462              227,095               227,051            234,493       230,883
m3)
Water Sold (Average per day; m3)*                 103,128              109,376              118,089               118,067            124,281       120,059
UFW                                                51%                  49%                  48%                   48%                47%           48%
Total Connections                                 53,653               61,039               64,672                64,737             65,649        67,549
Total Residential Connections                     42,922               48,831               51,738                51,790             52,519        54,039

Key Financial Information:
Operating Revenue                               77,564,616           98,419,058           119,683,913          140,023,241          177,562,415   186,707,829
Operating Expenses**                            69,028,535           82,865,247           96,341,422           113,207,922          132,751,965   165,016,160
Net Operating Revenue                           8,536,081            15,553,811           23,342,491           26,815,319           44,810,450    21,691,669
Operating Ratio
                                                   112%                 119%                  124%                 124%               134%          113%
(Revenues/Expenses)

Depreciation                                     8,382,970            8,500,195            8,565,779            9,267,157           13,929,519    16,530,385
Interest Expense                                 1,816,338            1,370,229            1,679,665            373,765,             363,896       564,611
Provisions for Uncollected
                                                 4,658,945            4,740,015           14,976,601            9,179,016            8,896,622     8,935,812
Revenues

Net Profit/(Loss)                               (6,159,772)           1,473,322           (1,198,906)           8,416,196           22,156,209    (3,975,061)

Other:
Metering Ratio                                      48%                  52%                  54%                   58%                60%           65%
Collection Ratio                                    91%                  73%                  72%                   74%                75%           96%

Customer Receivables, end of year               27,960,763           55,616,275           58,287,124            77,117,169          102,512,322   100,696,211
LWSC Payables, end of year                      26,494,663           37,562,479           48,889,251            53,238,983          59,353,772    67,831,327

Estimated Cash Revenues***                      70,583,801           71,845,912           86,172,417           103,617,198          133,171,811   179,239,515
Operating Ratio (cash basis)                      102%                  87%                  89%                  92%                  100%          109%

Average revenue per m3 sold
                                                   2,060                 2,465                2,776                3,249               3,914         4,260
(Kwacha)
Real increase in per m3 revenue+                                        19.6%                (1.4%)                8.3%               13.9%          2.3%
Average revenue per m3 sold
                                                   $0.50                 $0.57                $0.59                $0.69               $0.79         $0.83
(US$ equivalent)++
     * Water sold is derived from the amount of water produced and the rate of unaccounted-for water (UFW), both provided by LWSC
     ** Operating Expenses do not include depreciation, provisions for uncollected revenue, or interest expenses.
     *** Based on reported collection ratio.
     + based on the nominal increase in revenue per m3 sold and the average annual rate of inflation in Zambia.
     ++ based on average Kwacha/US$ exchange rate each year.
                                                                                 28
2.       LWSC’s operational highlights that stand out include the following:

     •   Water production has increased from a pre-project amount of approximately 210,000 m3/day to
         about 230,000 m3/day. This is presumably the result of project investments in borehole
         expansion. In addition, project investments in rehabilitation of the main water treatment works at
         Iolanda have enabled the maintenance of production levels there. At a 50 percent loss rate, this
         additional 20,000 m3/day enables an additional 15,000 residential connections to consume 10 m3
         per month.
     •   Through a combination of the above increase in production and a slight reduction in unaccounted-
         for water (51 percent to 48 percent), LWSC now sells approximately 120,000 m3 of water per
         day, or a nearly 20 percent increase over pre-project sales.
     •   LWSC individual water connections increased over the project period by nearly 14,000
         connections, of which over 11,000 were residential connections, serving at least an estimated
         66,000 individuals. Interestingly, LWSC reports 1,251 new government connections and 1,529
         commercial connections. It seems likely that the new government connections are the result of
         bulk connections being broken up into smaller connections, possibly as part of LWSC’s strategy
         to improve the billing and collection of government water consumption.
     •   LWSC’s metering ratio has increased considerably, from 48 percent in 2007 to 65 percent in
         2012. This is a direct result of the project, which financed new meters. It is not clear, however,
         how the increase in metering has affecting LWSC’s billing and collection ratios.

3.       Financially, LWSC has generally been on a positive trend. Prior to 2007, LWSC had generally
not been able to cover its operating costs (much less cover the depreciation of its assets or to finance
rehabilitation or expansion). Over the last several years, LWSC has shown improved operating ratios, and
has been able to cover its depreciation expense, interest expense, and provisions for uncollected revenues
in several years. That said, its financial performance deteriorated somewhat in 2012, recording a net loss,
and because most comparisons here are between 2012 and 2007, the improving trend seen in 2009, 2010,
and 2011 are not necessarily evident. The review notes the following: 2

     •   LWSC’s operating revenues have increased between 2007 and 2012 from ZK77.5 billion to
         ZK186.7 billion. Nominally, this is a 141 percent increase; however, this review estimates that
         most of that increase has been due to nominal and real increases in the tariffs. Approximately 20
         percent is due to increased water and other revenues.
     •   While tariff structures and increases were not reviewed as part of this analysis, the average
         revenue per m3 sold has increased steadily between 2007 and 2012 – from ZK2,060/m3 to
         ZK4,260 per m3. 3 This is presumably due mostly to inflationary and real tariff increases,
         although some may be due to increases sales or billing of water billed at higher tariff rates than
         previously. In U.S. Dollar terms, average revenue has increased from $0.50/m3 to $0.83/m3,
         bringing per m3 revenue closer to sustainable levels.
     •   Operating expenses – which, as defined in the PAD do not include depreciation, interest expense,
         or provisions for uncollected revenues – have increased from ZK69 billion in 2007 to KZ 165



2
   The Zambia Kwacha was revalued in 2013; 1,000 old Kwacha is currently equivalent to 1 new Kwacha. All
figures are provided in old Kwacha.

3
 Note that this includes revenues for sewerage services, as LWSC’s revenues include both water and sewerage
billings.

                                                    29
          billion in 2012, an increase of 139 percent, which is well above the cumulative inflation rate of 75
          percent. This results in a net operating ratio (operating revenues / operating expenses) of 113%
          for 2012, which is effectively the same as that in 2007. It should be noted that the operating ratios
          for 2009, 2010, and 2011 were significantly stronger – 124% in 2009 and 2010 and 134% in
          2011. This review notes that staffing and electricity expenses have increased at a rate
          significantly higher than inflation (159% and 124%, respectively).
      •   LWSC has been able to cover its depreciation expense, interest expense, and provisions for
          uncollected revenues in three of the last six years, which is a very positive step that bodes well for
          its ability to meet its debt obligations. It would appear that LWSC should shoot for an operating
          ratio of at least 130% if it is to safely cover its cash and non-cash expenses.
      •   On a less optimistic note, it does not yet appear that LWSC is provisioning sufficiently for
          uncollected revenues, and on a cash basis still struggles to cover its operational costs. LWSC has
          been provisioning between approximately 5 and 6 percent annually for uncollected revenues
          (with an exceptional 12.5 percent provisioned in 2009). However, its collection ratio
          (collections/billings) has ranged between 72 and 75 percent for 2008 through 2011. Collections
          were stronger in 2007 (91 percent) and 2012 (96 percent), and LWSC reported that collections in
          the first half of 2013 were 101 percent. The generally low collection ratios are due both to low
          residential collection and collections from government entities, and the recent strong collection
          rates in 2012 and 2013 may reflect government commitments to repaying past due amounts made
          in the context of the Millennium Challenge Corporation’s large grant for expansion of water
          service in Lusaka. Improvements may also be due in part to the installation of pre-paid meters on
          government connections. That said, LWSC significantly underprovisioned for uncollected
          revenue up until 2012, resulting in cash revenues being unable to meet operating expenses in
          three years and only just being able to meet them in two years.
      •   Weak collections have resulted in higher customer receivables and LWSC payables to suppliers
          each year. Despite a 96 percent collection ratio in 2012, LWSC’s payables to suppliers increased
          by ZK7.5 billion; it is unclear why LWSC was unable to pay its creditors and reduce its payables
          that year given its relatively strong cash collections.
      •   This analysis has not included detailed projections of performance, however, given ongoing
          pressure on LWSC’s ability to pay suppliers and credits (as evidenced by its increase in
          receivable), LWSC will have to continue to improve its financial performance through (i)
          increasing sales through reducing UFW; (ii) minimizing any increases in operating expenses in
          order to increase its operating revenue; and (iii) improving its billing and collections efficiencies.
          Without these improvements, LWSC will likely find it difficult to repay the IDA credit without
          assistance from the Government.

II.       Financial Analysis: Calculation of Financial Rate of Return

4.      The original financial and economic analyses of the project were undertaken on a with- and
without-project basis. For the financial analysis, the difference between LWSC’s net cash flows in the
with-project scenario and the without-project scenario was projected over time, resulting in a projected
FIRR of 17 percent and an NPV, calculated using a discount rate of 10 percent, of ZK22 billion.

5.       For the post-project financial analysis, as it is not realistic to create a without-project scenario, a
simplified projected cash flow model was prepared based on (i) LWSC’s actual operational performance
between 2007 and 2013; (ii) project disbursements between 2007 and 2013 and projected interest and
loan payments; and (iii) operational and financial projections based on LWSC’s 2012 performance. No
changes in operating or financial performance were assumed. Cash flows were projected to 2038 using
the following assumptions:


                                                       30
               Daily water production                                        230,883 m3
               UFW                                                              48%
               Operating revenue per m3 sold in 2012                          ZK4,261
               Operating cost per m3 produced in 2012*                        ZK1,958
               Annual Inflation                                                 6.5%
               Collection Ratio                                                 95%
               Interest rate of IDA credit                                     0.65%
               IDA credit grace period                                        10 years
               IDA credit repayment period                                    30 years
                * Does not include depreciation, provisions for uncollected revenues, or interest
                costs. Uncollected revenues are incorporated into the cash flow through the
                collection ratio; interest costs are incorporated into debt service projections.

6.       Note that the post-project financial analysis does not include the operational and financial
changes resulting from the project’s Additional Financing investments in the towns of Kafue, Chilanga,
Chongwe, and Luangwa. The results can reasonably be compared with the pre-project analysis, but do not
reflect the full US$32 million investment of the Original and Additional Financing. Due to time and
information constraints, it was not possible to separately analyze the results of the Additional Financing.

7.      The projections result in an FIRR of 24 percent and an NPV calculated using a 10 percent
discount rate of ZK93.4 billion.

8.       The analysis notes that these results are highly sensitive to the collection ratio. The assumed
collection ratio of 95 percent, while reflecting the 2012 collection ratio, is significantly higher than
LWSC’s actual performance in 2007 through 2011. If LWSC’s collection ratio falls only to 90 percent
(which is still far higher than LWSC’s actual collections in previous years), the FIRR falls to 9 percent,
and the NPV falls to negative ZK2.1 billion. Changes in assumed UFW also affect the projections: if
LWSC improves its UFW to 40 percent, the FIRR rises to 31 percent and the NPV to ZK198 billion. In
contrast, if UFW reverts to the pre-project rate of 51 percent, the FIRR falls to 6 percent and the NPV to
negative ZK11 billion. These results are summarized below.

                        Base Case         90% collection Ratio            40% UFW                   51% UFW
 FIRR                     24%                     9%                        31%                        6%
 NPV (ZK billion)         93.4                   - 2.1                       198                       - 11

9.       This review notes that, while the project is likely to have contributed to the above results, they
cannot be fully ascribed to the project. In particular, the review notes that tariff increases have exceeded
inflation, resulting in a net financial benefit to LWSC that contributes to the positive results. The review
also notes that the positive cash flows are dependent as well on the concessionary terms of the IDA credit
– the 0.65 percent interest rate, the 10-year grace period, and the 30-year repayment period. The above
cash flow analysis does not incorporate depreciation costs, which, although they are not a cash expense,
would have a greater impact on LWSC’s accounting profits than the debt service obligations resulting
from the IDA credit. LWSC’s performance is not yet at a level at which it could cover its operational
expenses, its debt service, and the true cost of its assets as reflected in the depreciation expense.

III.    Economic Analysis: Calculation of Economic Rate of Return

10.     The original economic analysis for the project indicated an expected IRR of 29 percent and an
NPV of US$17.6 million based on a discount rate of 10 percent. The analysis as described included
estimates of benefits stemming from (i) incremental water sales resulting from additional production; (ii)
cost savings for consumers benefitting from new standposts in peri-urban areas; and (iii) time savings for
                                                         31
consumers benefitting from the new standposts in peri-urban areas. These benefits were added to the
financial benefits to LWSC to reach the 29 percent IRR and US$17.6 million IRR.

11.     As part of this ICR, the original economic analysis was reviewed, including the original
spreadsheets. It appears that there may have been several errors in both the economic model and in
spreadsheet calculations that, combined, overstated the projected return. These errors include the
following:

    •   Incremental water sales resulting from additional production seem to have been double-counted –
        first in the financial analysis, as they result in additional revenue to LWSC, and then again in the
        economic analysis as a benefit to consumers. Because project beneficiaries purchase water from
        LWSC – an economic transfer from consumers to the utility that result in the financial returns to
        the utility – the consumer benefits presumably should not have been added to the financial returns
        to LWSC to come up with a total economic benefit. (If consumer water payments had been
        subtracted from consumer benefits, this would have worked; however, it does not appear that they
        were.) This was an overstatement of project benefits.
    •   Cost savings for consumers benefitting from new standposts in peri-urban areas were
        significantly overstated due to an error in the spreadsheet calculations. In fact, according to the
        project assumptions, consumers of water from LWSC standposts would actually be paying more
        for water than previously (ZK750/m3 vs. ZK500/m3) after the project. While the project would
        certainly bring benefits in terms of the amount of water available and the quality of water, it
        would not have been possible to calculate cost savings for consumers in peri-urban areas.
        However, the error in the spreadsheet resulted in significant benefits from cost savings. This was
        an overstatement of project benefits.
    •   The economic analysis did not include the time savings accruing to households with new
        individual household connections either in conventional (non-peri-urban) or peri-urban areas. As
        there were significantly more households that benefited from new individual connections than
        benefitted from new standposts, the omission of those time savings resulted in a significant
        understatement of project benefits. (Note that, depending on where new customers were located
        and earlier service, there may or may not have been direct cost savings resulting from the new
        connections and the availability of additional water. There would, however, have been benefits in
        terms of the availability of water, the quality of water, and time savings.)

12.      The economic analysis undertaken for the ICR was a significant simplification from the original,
calculating only the time savings accruing to new LWSC customers. Based on information in the PAD
regarding the cost of water for non-LWSC customers, it did not appear that consumers’ cost savings
would be a significant factor in the analysis. And, despite likely improvements in the quality of water, the
analysis has not assessed the value of health benefits to new consumers.

13.      The analysis has removed inflation from the calculation, basing all benefits on 2007 prices in
local currency, then converted into US dollars based on the 2007 average exchange rate. The analysis
calculated the IRR up to 2032, or for a 20-year period following the end of the project. As in the financial
analysis, there was not sufficient information to incorporate the investments and benefits in Kafue,
Chilanga, Chongwe, and Luangwa into the economic analysis. The analysis therefore looks only at the
effect of the original financing on the original service territory of Lusaka.

14.      The review notes that because the original analysis did not incorporate time or cost savings for
new customers with individual connections, this analysis has made assumptions regarding the amount of
time such customers would have required to collect water prior to the project as well as after the
installation of individual yardtaps, assuming that some households would have had bulk water delivered
                                                    32
to the households (requiring significantly less time to collect water), while others fit the profile of peri-
urban households accessing communal taps. It has been assumed that most new customers have installed
yardtaps (at the edge of property), rather than internal connections. As in the original analysis, the local
minimum wage, discounted 30 percent to account for unemployment, was used as a proxy for the value of
time spent collecting water. Data used in the analysis is as follows:

              Peri-urban standpost investments:
               New standposts                                                        99
               Households using each standpost                                       50
               Pre-project time collecting water per household per day           2.05 hours
               Post-project time collecting water per household per day         1.025 hours
              New individual residential connections
               Number of new residential connections, end-of-project               13,878
               Pre-project time collecting water per household per day           1.25 hours
               Post-project time collecting water per household per day             0.625
              Hourly minimum wage, discounted 30%                                 ZK3,012

15.     The results of the analysis are as follows:

                          IRR                                    19%
                          NPV, discounted at 10%              US$9,374,920

16.     This summary notes that, unlike in the financial projections, where it was necessary for
sensitivity analyses to be incorporated due to factors affecting future performance, this economic
analysis is based on time savings that are already in place, and therefore no sensitivity analysis
has been carried out.




                                                      33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

Task Team members
                                                                               Responsibility/
           Names                             Title                     Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
N. Jane Walker                 Lead Water & Sanitation Specialist   AFTU1 Task Team Leader
Devendra Bajgain               Senior Water & Sanitation Specialist AFTU1
Fook Chuan Eng                 Senior Water & Sanitation Spec.       EASIS
Belinda Lorraine Asaam         Program Assistant                    AFTU1
Bwalya Mfula Mumba             Contracts Officer                    GSDCP
Said Al Habsy                  Chief Counsel                        LEGAF
Edith Ruguru Mwenda            Senior Counsel                       LEGAM
Marjorie Mpundu                Senior Counsel                       LEGES
Jonathan Pavluk                Senior Counsel                       LEGOP
Joseph Gedek                   Consultant                           EASCS
Kazimbaya Barbra Senkwe        Water & Sanitation Specialist        EWDAF
Sudeshna G. Banerjee           Sr. Economist                        SEGEN
Modupe A. Adebowale            Senior Finance Officer               LOAG2
Fenwick M. Chitalu             Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM
Wedex Ilunga                   Senior Procurement Specialist        AFTPE
Banu Setlur                    Environmental Specialist             MNSEE
Kristine Schwebach             Social Development Specialist        AFTCS
Clarissa Brocklehurst          Social Scientist (Consultant)
Archer Davis                   PSP Consultant
Knud Lauritzen                 Financial Analyst (Consultant)

Supervision/ICR
Michael John Webster           Senior Water & Sanitation Specialist   AFTU1 Task Team Leader
Luiz Claudio Martins Tavares   Lead Water & Sanitation Specialist     AFTU1 Task Team Leader
Solomon Alemu                  Consultant                             AFTU1 ICR Author
LingsonChikoti                 Financial Management Specialist        AFTME
Chloe Oliver Viola             Infrastructure Economist               AFTSN
Theresa Marissa J. Gamulo      Procurement Analyst                    AFTU1
Belinda Lorraine Asaam         Program Assistant                      AFTU1
Wedex Ilunga                   Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPE
Mohammed Kumbakumba            Consultant                             AFTN1
Midori Makino                  Lead Evaluation Officer                IEGPS
Dennis Daniel Mwanza           Senior Water & Sanitation Specialist   TWIAF
Kazimbaya Barbra Senkwe        Water & Sanitation Specialist          TWIAF
Elisabeth Sherwood             Senior Financial Specialist            AFTU1
Neta Mulenga Walima            Program Assistant                      AFCS3
Zvikomborero Hoko              Consultant                             AFTU1
William Muhairwe               Consultant                             AFTU1


                                               34
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of Staff Weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                    2.45                           9.33
  FY02                                   10.01                          69.09
  FY03                                   19.55                         115.99
  FY04                                   18.61                          84.39
  FY05                                   57.38                         248.20
  FY06                                   21.15                          83.78

                          Total:        129.15                         610.78
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                   15.92                          72.49
  FY08                                   38.93                         140.37
  FY09                                   43.70                         156.70
  FY10                                   20.09                          94.32
  FY11                                   17.38                         141.91
  FY12                                   16.05                         130.68
  FY13                                   11.95                         100.39
  FY14                                    0.50                          26.55

                          Total:        164.52                         863.41




                                       35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                      36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                        37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                     GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
                        LUSAKA WATER AND SEWERAGE COMPANY




       WATER SECTOR PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                  IDA: CR NO. 42330-ZA/4550-ZA

                               BORROWER COMPLETION REPORT


                                                       AUGUST 2013


Table of Contents
1.0 Introduction405
2.0 Project Context, Development Objectives and design405
  2.1 Context at Appraisal ............................................................................................. 405
  2.2 Original Project Development Objectives .............................................................. 41
  2.3 Revised Project Development Objectives............................................................... 41
  2.3 Original Project Components.................................................................................. 42
  2.4 Revised Project Components .................................................................................. 42
  2.5 Other significant changes........................................................................................ 43
3.0 Implementation43
  3.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality in the Project Preparation Phase ............ 43
  3.2 Implementation ....................................................................................................... 44
  3.2.2 Component B ....................................................................................................... 45
  3.3 Monitoring and evaluation ...................................................................................... 45
  3.4 Safeguards and fiduciary compliance ..................................................................... 46
  3.5 Post Completion Operation and Maintenance ........................................................ 46

                                                                  38
4.0 Assessment of Outcomes47
  4.1 Relevance of objectives, design and Implementation ............................................. 47
  4.2 Achievement of Project Development Objective ................................................... 47
  4.3 Efficiency ................................................................................................................ 47
  4.4 Justification of overall outcome rating ................................................................... 48
  4.5 Overarching themes, other outcomes and impacts ................................................. 48
  4.6 Other unintended outcome and impact ................................................................... 49
  4.7 Potential Benefits from the project ......................................................................... 49
5.0 Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome50
6.0 Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance50
  6.1 Bank performance ................................................................................................... 50
  6.2 Borrower’s performance ......................................................................................... 51
7.0 Lessons learned51




                                                                    39
1.0 Introduction
The vision of the Government of The Republic of Zambia (GRZ) in the water sector, as
expressed in the 2001 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), is to ensure that sector
resources are effectively developed to contribute to poverty reduction. Zambia has demonstrated
a long standing commitment to the water sector reform process, which started in 1994, with the
adoption of a forward looking National Water Policy. The National Water Policy paved way for
the development of the institutional and legal framework for the water supply and sanitation
(WSS) services delivery. The Water Supply and Sanitation Act (1997) provided for the efficient
and sustainable WSS services under the regulation of the National Water and Sanitation Council
(NWASCO) and the establishment of commercially viable water utilities (CUs).
LWSC is responsible for provision of water and sewerage services in Lusaka Province. The
company was established in 1988 though only started operations in 1990. The vision for Lusaka
Water and Sewerage Company is “to be a world class water and sanitation service provider”. The
Company is further guided by a mission of “to provide quality water and sanitation services to
customers in Lusaka Province at commercially and environmentally sustainable levels”. In 2008,
a ministerial directive instructed the districts of Chongwe, Luangwa, Kafue and Lusaka to form
one regional water utility. To facilitate this, GRZ transferred all the existing assets in the four
towns from the relevant district councils to LWSC.
The Government of the Republic of Zambia signed a Financing Agreement with the International
Development Association (IDA) to support the Water Sector Performance Improvement Project
(WSPIP). The Project was approved by the Executive Directors on October 5, 2006 for SDR
15.7 million (US$23 million equivalent). The Financing Agreement for the Project (between the
GRZ and IDA) was signed on December 22, 2006. The project became effective on March 22,
2007

2.0 Project Context, Development Objectives and design

2.1 Context at Appraisal
During appraisal of the project, LWSC was providing water services to about 45,880 connections,
of which 33,370 were domestic connections, for the 1.5 million residents in Lusaka with a
coverage rate of about 80% on the network. Less than 30% of the connections in Lusaka were
metered and the rest were billed on assessed values. As at 2004, LWSC’s water production was
230,000m3/day and lost 20% through technical losses and 30% through commercial losses.
Most poor people in Lusaka, with an estimated population of 830,000, lived in peri-urban areas
called “compounds”. Approximately 430,000 people or 50% compound dwellers were serviced
primarily by LWSC communal taps. Using a person-per-tapstand rate of 500, this meant that 860
taps were required to serve these people adequately at current population levels. However, it was
estimated that there were just over 500 tapsstands. There was thus a “tap gap” of 350 tapstands;
that is about 70% increase in tapstands was needed to provide a minimum level of access for the
current population.
Financially, LWSC was typical of Zambia’s Commercial Utilities (CUs) as revenues covered
only about 70% of operating costs as a result of inefficient performance and tariff levels that
were set below cost-recovery. The table below captures key performance indicators of LWSC in
2005

                                                40
                       Table 1: Key performance indicators of LWSC 2005
                       Indicator                           Performance
                       Unaccounted-for-water (%)           55.8
                       Water quality compliance (%)        74
                       Water service coverage (%)          79
                       Sanitation coverage (%)             9
                       Hours of supply                     15
                       Metering ratio (%)                  39
                       Staff per 1000 connections          12
                       Collection efficiency (%)           77
                       O & M cost coverage (%)             75
Source: NWASCO, 2005

Effective 1st February 2008, LWSC became a regional water utility taking over operations in
three more districts of Chongwe, Kafue and Luangwa, and Chilanga Township. A synopsis of
the status at appraisal in each district is set out below:
Kafuehad the worst raw water quality problem of all the towns due to the collapse of the water-
borne sewerage system which led to raw sewage flowing into the Kafue River. This affected
residents of the town directly, but also indirectly affected Lusaka residents because the raw water
for Lusaka was drawn from the river at this point.
The Township of Chilanga experienced a severe shortage of water, with some parts of the
township having no water at all. None of the water supplied was treated.
Chongwe had very poor water quality and sometimes seasonal shortages as well. The source of
raw water needed both to be upgraded and diversified in order to reduce the risk of shortages.
Water was untreated and subsequently was high in coliforms and deemed unfit to drink. The
main storage reservoir and distribution system were run down and had significant leaks
Luangwa is located next to two large rivers – the Luangwa and the Zambezi. The available
ground water was salty and therefore boreholes were not an acceptable source of drinking water.
Water abstracted from the Zambezi was not treated and resulted in an unsafe and turbid supply.
Although approximately 200 residents had connections, there were areas that were not connected
and relied on salty borehole water.

2.2 Original Project Development Objectives
The project development objective was to support the GRZ’s on- going commitment to urban
and rural water sector reforms by improving access and sustainability of WSS services for
consumers in Lusaka and by supporting a more comprehensive institutional structure which
would lead to a coordinated approach for WSS investments, both public and private. This
intervention should complement LWSC’s short-term efforts to improve efficiency and supports
its goals of financial recovery and robust commercial and technical performance improvements.

2.3 Revised Project Development Objectives
The original WSPIP project covered the city of Lusaka only. The city of Lusaka and its
immediate environs had a population of about 1.2 million people. In December 2006, LWSC was
appointed as “Statutory Manager” for the water and sewerage services in Kafue district. This was
followed by a Ministerial directive for the districts of Kafue, Chongwe, Luangwa and Lusaka to

                                                 41
form one regional utility. Effective February 1, 2008, LWSC became fully responsible for
management of the water and sanitation services in the new districts as well as in Lusaka. This
meant that LWSC expanded its responsibilities to another 150,000 consumers and to a service
area that covered all urban areas within Lusaka Province
Due to the increased service area represented by the 3 districts, it was necessary to change the
project's development objectives so that they reflect the new responsibilities of LWSC (See
Table 1). Furthermore, although the restructuring was necessitated by the enlargement of LWSC,
the Additional Financing was also used as an opportunity to refine and strengthen the PDO for
component B, so that it is more reflective of the support that the credit is providing to the GRZ.
This is mainly due to the fact that some of the initial key activities were taken over by other
cooperating partners due to the time it took for the credit to become effective. This shift was also
reflective of the changes that took place in the sector over the last year with regard to GRZ’s
intention to move towards a SWAp for the water sector.

                             Table 1: Original and Revised PDOs

Original PDOs                                  Revised PDOs
(i) improvement of access to, and              (i) To improve the technical efficiency, and
sustainability of, the water supply and        financial sustainability of LWSC and improve
sanitation services in Lusaka                  access to water supply and sanitation services for
                                               urban consumers in Lusaka Province
(ii) development of a comprehensive            (ii) To strengthen the effectiveness of national
institutional structure supporting a           water supply and sanitation planning
coordinated approach to water supply and
sanitation investments



2.3 Original Project Components
Component A: Support to LWSC - US $20 million- Specific items included:
Support to the DFAPE - goods, works, operational cost support; Emergency goods and works;
Support to a Human Resource strategy, training and performance payments; Preparation of
designs, feasibility studies, and completion of EIA for capital works expected to be supported
through a SWAp
Component B: Institutional capacity building in MLGH- US $1 million–items include:
    (i) Support to Restructuring of the WATSAN Function within MLGH
    (ii) Strengthening Strategic Analytical Function for WATSAN in MLGH
    (iii)Support the Operationalisation of the RWSS Financing Mechanism and harmonization
         with other government mechanisms
Taxes and duties: During appraisal of the project, the GRZ requested that the Credit include an
allocation for taxes and duties of about US $ 2 m, US$1.9 million for Component A and
US$100,000 for Component B. This represented about 10% of the credit.

2.4 Revised Project Components
The revised project components are as follows:
                                                 42
Component A: Support to LWSC
  (a) Support to LWSC through provision of consultants’ services, goods, works and operating
      costs for the implementation of the Development Financing Agreement for Performance
      Enhancement
  (b) Carrying out of rehabilitation works for bulk water production, repair of distribution
      systems, repair of sewer networks and plants and boreholes, including carrying out of
      related studies, design and supervision services, through the provision of consultants’
      services, goods, works and operating costs.
  (c) Design and implementation of a human resources strategy, through the provision of
      technical assistance and Performance Payments
  (d) Support towards the restructuring of LWSC aimed at integrating the management of the
      additional districts within the LWSC’s corporate structure through the provision of goods,
      consultants’ services and training;
Component B: Support to MLGH for the preparation of a coordinating mechanism for water
supply and sanitation, including:
    (a) Provision of technical assistance for the development of a national water supply and
        sanitation policy;
    (b) Provision of technical assistance for the development of a financing mechanism for the
        water supply and sanitation sector
    (c) Carrying out a program of activities related to the development of the sanitation and
        hygiene component of the National Rural Water and Sanitation Programme including
        strengthening the capacity of staff of the MLGH through provision of technical assistance,
        Training and goods
Note that the descriptions of the subcomponents under component B have been revised slightly
in order to better reflect the revised PDO and activities being supported.

2.5 Other significant changes
The planned completion date was 30th June 2010 as provided in the Project Appraisal Document.
The first extension was granted up to 30th June 2011 due to delayed effectiveness of the credit.
With the approval of the Additional Financing for the WSPIP covering additional scope of works
for the three districts of Chongwe, Kafue and Luangwa, and Chilanga Township, the closing date
was extended to 30th June 2012. The Bank granted a final extension of the credit closing date to
30th June 2013 due to delayed procurement processes.

3.0 Implementation

3.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality in the Project Preparation Phase
Project Preparation
Project preparation benefited directly from the extensive reform agenda that was already
developing in the urban water sector in Zambia. The Bank had long involvement in Zambia’s
urban water and sanitation sector through two major operations – the Urban Restructuring and
Water Supply Project – URWSP (1996-2000) and the Mine Townships Services Project – MTSP
(2000-2005).


                                               43
IDA also benefited from efforts of other donors working in the sector in the preparation of the
project. In a few years prior to preparation of the project, there was significant donor
harmonization to help Zambia develop an institutional structure for Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation (RWSS). This effort was further consolidated as part of this project credit and
partnering of donors in developing a coordinated approach.
Project Design
The project was primarily focused on LWSC and incorporated precise and readily monitorable
performance outputs through use of the Development Financing Agreement for Performance
Enhancement (DFAPE). The DFAPE had 10 quantifiable indicators and was audited annually, in
line with IDA fiduciary norms, by a third party professional organization through a Special
Performance Audit (SPA).
The management and staff of LWSC were fully supportive of the DFAPE and the performance
targets they were responsible for and were expected to deliver. In 2005 and 2006, prior to
effectiveness of the credit, LWSC developed programs that included short term, medium term
and long term visions for improving the company and included plans to meet a variety of
performance indicators which set ground work for the DFAPE.
Significant effort was made in project preparation with respect to stakeholder consultations in all
the project areas and the respective environs, with the Local Authorities, NGO’s, Ward
Development Committees and other groups for example through the Consumer Association of
Zambia and a communication program was included in the project for both components.
Quality at entry
The projects quality at entry was rated Satisfactory. Studies and consultations conducted during
this preparation phase were used to constructively lay groundwork for well-targeted
interventions.

3.2 Implementation
3.2.1 Component A
Designs for works contracts
Original WSPIP – The Engineering designs and tender documents for all the 8no works contracts
were done by a consultant. The following problems were encountered during construction phase;
    • There was no comprehensive analysis of the various meter installation scenarios on the
       ground by the design consultant before proposing standard meter installation assembly
       for the contract for supply and installation of domestic and bulk meters.
    • Some installations at the water treatment plant under the contract for Rehabilitation of
       Iolanda Water Treatment plant such as valves were wrongly specified
    • The design missed out reinforcement for top slabs of water kiosks under the contract for
       construction of 100 water kiosks
The above issues lead to delays in executing the works and attracted additional costs due to
scope variations to tray and correct the shortfalls.
Additional Financing – the designs were prepared by a team of selected LWSC staff. Some
items in the bill of quantities were not very clear as to what was expected of the contractor as
there were no detailed engineering working drawings and this lead to variation orders.


                                                44
Procurement of goods and works:Most of the works and good contracts under the original and
additional financing credit were subjected to clearance by the Zambia Public Procurement
Authority (ZPPA). Clearance of bid evaluation reports for procurement of goods and works
contracts took as long as 2 months before a no objection could be granted by ZPPA. This lead to
delayed procurement of contractors and suppliers and in turn affected overall project progress.
Supervision of contractors by consultants:During implementation phase of the project, we
encountered instances where the consultant had not been to site for over a week but works were
on going. LWSC had to rely on presence of its project staff on site to monitor contractor’s works.
The consultant was reprimanded. Another deputy team leader was brought in to replace the one
who was weak in supervision and this improved consultant’s performance.
Land for Water kiosks and boreholes: LWSCencountered a challenge in securing land
fordrilling boreholes and construction of water kiosks. In some cases, land would be available for
drilling of boreholes but the geophysical investigations indicated non availability of ground
water. We had to strike a compromise between land availability and presence of ground water.
The water kiosks were constructed in peri-urban areas which were not properly planned and
there was no space for construction of water kiosks, and in most cases with a rocky formation.
This has affected performance of soak ways in the rainy season.
Delays in securing tax remissions:For the original credit, LWSC obtained tax remissions for all
imported goods either as supply and delivery or those incorporated as part of the works. The
remissions had to be approved by Ministry of Local Government and Housing and then Ministry
of Finance before finally being issued by the Zambia Revenue Authority (ZRA). This took over
three months in some cases and LWSC suffered penalties from contractors for delaying the
project and extension of contract expiry dates in other cases. However, this was corrected by
paying taxes for contracts under the additional financing credit.

3.2.2 Component B
Goods procurement: The MLGH procured furniture and motor vehicles for the Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) program. These enhanced the operations of the RWSS Unit in the
MLGH
Consultancy Procurements: Development of a Water Supply and Sanitation Policy: MLGH
engaged an individual consultant to facilitate the development of the water supply and sanitation
policy. As at project closing date, the MLGH had produced a second draft policy document. The
cost for completion of the assignment shall be financed by GRZ. .
Development of a WSS Financing Mechanism: The MLGH undertook and completed the
consultancy study for a suitable financing mechanism for RWSS.
Trainings: Under this component, the MLGH undertook various capacity development programs
for staff at national, provincial and district levels.

3.3 Monitoring and evaluation
Monitoring and Evaluation design:The results framework and arrangement for results
monitoring in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were maintained, except for a few changes
which were done through a deed of variation to the DFAPE. The indicator for energy reduction
in Kwh/m3 of sewage discharged was dropped because the contract for sewer networks and
treatment plants rehabilitation was dropped from the procurement plan due to oversubscription

                                               45
on some other works contracts. The other amendment was a deed of variation to include
indicators for the districts of Kafue, Chongwe and Luangwa under Additional Financing credit.
Implementation:LWSC signed a performance agreement with the Government of the Republic
of Zambia through the Ministry of Local Government and Housing based on the DFAPE for the
WSPIP. LWSC engaged an independent technical auditor to conduct special performance audit
of the indicators on an annual basis. The technical auditor reported to the Development
Financing Agreement Review Committee (DFARC) comprising members from the major
stakeholder institutions, including MLGH, LCC, NWASCO and two non-executive Board
members of LWSC. This information was also shared with the Bank task team on an annual
basis.
Utilisation: LWSC adopted the format of the DFAPE results monitoring framework and used it
to monitor achievement of the targets on a quarterly basis. This information was submitted to the
Bank, NWASCO and the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. It has helped LWSC monitor
its financial and technical performance even after the Bank credit has expired.

3.4 Safeguards and fiduciary compliance
3.4.1 Component A
Environmental and Social Safeguards:The Project triggered three safeguards: (i) OP 7.5 on
International Waterways for which an exception was granted; (ii) OP 4.01 Environmental
Assessment; and (iii) OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. The Bank’s safeguards specialist
conducted a safeguards mission in April 2013 and found the project in compliance with all
safeguard policies. .
Financial Management:Financial Management performance and FM rating for LWSC
(component A of the credit) was rated Satisfactory during the June 2013 implementation
support mission.Disbursements under both the original and additional financing credits improved,
with US$30,647,287.90 disbursed out of the credit total of US$33,000,000.00, giving a
disbursement rate of 92.9%. See Annex 2.
Procurement:There were no significant procurement issues at the time of preparing the report.
3.4.2 Component B
Environmental and Social Safeguards: there were no environmental and Social Safeguard
issues under this component
Financial Management: Financial Management performance and FM rating for MLGH
(component B of the credit) was rated Moderately Satisfactory during the June 2013
implementation support mission.
Procurement: There were no significant procurement issues at the time of preparing the report.

3.5 Post Completion Operation and Maintenance
Original credit: All the plant and equipment that were rehabilitated and newly installed under
the credit are operational. There were breakdowns experienced on the intake pumps installed at
Iolanda Water Treatment Plant, but these were rectified by the contractor and are currently
operational. The boreholes in woodlands extension experienced voltage serge, leading into
burning one of the pumps. The pump was replaced and is operational. LWSC maintenance team
conducts periodic maintenance of the plant and equipment installed under the project.


                                                   46
Additional financing credit: The newly installed modular water treatment plant in Luangwa is
operational. An operator at the level of Technician has been employed to run the plant and will
be complimented by a laboratory technician. This team is receiving support from the
Maintenance department in Lusaka. There is an operations team running the system in Chongwe
that has taken over operations of the new network installed. The newly rehabilitated and installed
Plant and Equipment in Kafue district and Chilanga Township have been handed over to Kafue
Branch which is in charge of operations in the two areas.

4.0 Assessment of Outcomes

4.1 Relevance of objectives, design and Implementation
Project Objective:The Project Development Objective to improve technical efficiency and
financial sustainability of LWSC and improve access to water supply and sanitation services for
consumers in Lusaka, Kafue, Chongwe and Luangwa Districts was relevant is line with the
Zambia’s priorities via PRSP which emphasized the role of infrastructure in growth and diversity,
with one of the major issues being to ensure that water resources are effectively developed to
contribute to poverty reduction. It also significantly contributed to Zambia achieving the water
supply and Sanitation MDG.
Design:The project design continued to be relevant throughout project implementation. The
project was primarily focused on LWSC and incorporated precise and readily monitorable
performance outputs such as customer service, operation optimization finance and corporate
strategy through use of the Development Financing Agreement for Performance Enhancement
(DFAPE). The DFAPE had 10 quantifiable indicators and was audited annually, in line with IDA
fiduciary norms, by a third party professional organization through a Special Performance Audit
(SPA). LWSC has continued to use the results framework developed under the project to monitor
its technical and financial performance and has been reporting on a quarterly basis to the Bank
and the Board.
Implementation:In the course of implementing the project, very few and appropriate
amendments were made in line with the changes in the activities of the project. The indicator for
energy reduction in Kwh/m3 of sewage discharged was dropped through a deed of variation
because the contract for sewer networks and treatment plants rehabilitation was dropped from the
procurement plan due to oversubscription on some other works contracts.

4.2 Achievement of Project Development Objective
The project development objective was achieved as can be seen from the results framework and
arrangement for results monitoring where the intermediate results of reducing operational costs
by 2% and outcome indicator of LWSC achieving coverage of operational costs through its
operational revenues were achieved as evidenced from LWSC’s earning of performance
incentive payments for year 1, 3 and 4 of the DFAPE.

4.3 Efficiency
The efficiency of the project is assessed based on the results achieved with the amount of
resources consumed. Most of the activities under the project were implemented within cost as
planned in the contract.
Original credit: There was no reduction in scope for most contracts except for the contracts for
Rehabilitation of Iolanda Water Treatment Plant, and Supply and Installation of Domestic and
                                              47
Bulk meters. The reduction in scope was because the contract amounts were almost twice the
estimates in the procurement plan. The estimates for these contracts were done in 2006 but the
contractors were procured in 2008, hence contractors’ rates were higher than LWSC estimates.
The other scope change was for the contract for construction of 10 new boreholes where the
material for blind and screen casings had to be changed from Common Carbon Steel to Stainless
Steel due to corrosive nature of the ground water. This attracted an extension of the contract
completion date by nine moths to allow for supply and delivery of the Johnson Stainless Steel
Screen casings. However, everything was done within the respective contract prices.
Additional Financing: the scope for rehabilitation works in Kafue and Chilanga had to be
increased through an addendum to carter for increase in the scope of replacing the DN600mm
pipeline with DN500mm from 270m provided in the contract to 2,500m. The addendum also
covered the new pipeline from ground reservoir to elevated tank in Chilanga. Similarly for the
contract for rehabilitation works in Chongwe and Luangwa, LWSC issued an addendum for
supply and installation of new elevated reservoirs in Chongwe and Luangwa. The contracts were
extended by a month and there was no budget overrun

4.4 Justification of overall outcome rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The project is rated Moderately Satisfactory because we achieved most of the targets in
DFAPE. This can also be assessed by comparing the baseline performance of LWSC in 2005 to
the performance in 2013. There has been an improvement in the performance targets set out in
the DFAPE.

4.5 Overarching themes, other outcomes and impacts
The project has recorded some significant outcomes and impacts as follows;
Improved Access to water supply and sanitation services:Increased access to water supply for
5,000 people living in peri-urban areas through construction of 100 water kiosks; improved
billing and collection ratio through installation of 30,000 post paid metered connections for both
new and existing customers; the number properties receiving less than 8hrs of water supply per
day has reduced from 5,000 to 854 during the project period, improving quality of service; the
number of biological samples failing has reduced from 17.7% to 3% during the project period
Improved Financial viability of LWSC: Energy consumption in kWh/m3 of water produced has
been reduced by 17.7% during the project period; Non-revenue water has been reduced from
51% to 46% during the project period; Operating margin has improved the operating profit as a
percent of turnover is at 5%; Collection ratio (collected/billed) has increased from 91% to 95%.
Enhanced Corporate strategy: LWSC has improved staff productivity through;
    •   implementation of a human resources strategy which introduced performance
        management system where employees sign performance agreements, and performance is
        assessed based on performance targets
    •   training of staff in procurement, financial management, project management and human
        resource management thereby improving skills
    •   performance payments through the DFAPE and PMS for qualifying employees



                                               48
The project (through the Water and Sanitation Program) also supported a Pilot Sanitation
Project in Kalingalinga, a high-density, peri-urban neighborhood of Lusaka, that is generating
useful lessons from testing low-cost sewerage collection systems and warrants further scaling-up

4.6 Other unintended outcome and impact
The project has been instrumental in leveraging support from other Cooperating Partners (CPs) in the
water and sanitation sector in Zambia, including:
    •   DANIDA financed Water Supply Improvement Project in Chongwe district which
        supported construction of a modular water treatment Plant. This has given about 25,000
        inhabitants of Chongwe town improved and sustainable access to safe drinking water
    •   The WSPIP project model and Kalingalinga pilot sanitation project have helped leverage a grant
        of $355mn from the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) to support water, sanitation
        and drainage in Lusaka City.
    •   EIB financed a pre-feasibility study for a sanitation project in Lusaka which AfDB and
        KfW have expressed interest in financing
    •   LWSC was able to get a commercial loan from ZANACO, a Zambian Bank to finance
        the water distribution network extension project in Farms 1080 and 917, South of
        Hillview and Rockfield newly developed residential areas in Lusaka, giving 17,304
        residents access to sustainable water supply.
    •   The project has improved LWSC’s financial sustainability. This coupled with boreholes
        drilled under the project in woodlands extension newly developed residential area of
        Lusaka, has prompted LWSC to undertake a project to extend its water distribution
        network to the area. The project is ongoing and is expected to benefit a population of
        3,376 with access to sustainable water supply.

4.7 Potential Benefits from the project
4.7.1 Installation of prepaid meters
    •   The prepaid metering project has political by in because the first properties to be metered
        are those for workers at State House. GRZ issued a circular to all government agencies
        consuming LWSC water to cooperate with the installation of prepaid meters. This will
        significantly reduce and eventually eliminate debt by public institutions.
    •   Installation of prepaid meters will help reduce the operating costs of LWSC associated
        with meter reading, printing of bills and delivery of bills, sending reminders and
        disconnection notices to customers, disconnecting customers, reconnecting those that
        have complied
    •   Leakages at customer premises will be reduced due to introduction of prepaid meters
        because customers know that every drop of water costs money
    •   Some customers interviewed in Kafue and Lusaka expressed confidence in the prepaid
        metering system in that they will only pay for what they consume unlike in the past
        where they paid an assessed charge which was not consistent with their water
        consumption
4.7.2   Increased water production
The increased water production in Luangwa due to installation of a new 120m3/h modular water
treatment plant has created potential for more people to have access to safe water supply. The

                                                 49
local authority has expressed willingness to partner with LWSC to finance refurbishment of the
existing water distribution network and extend the network to un-serviced areas. This will
increase LWSC’s customer base.
In Kafue, the replacement of the leaking main transmission pipeline from reservoirs to Kafue
Estates with a new DN 500mm pipeline will increase transmission efficiency and increase access
to safe water for residents.

5.0 Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
The realization of expected development outcomes faces a number of risks. The rating of overall
risk to development outcome is moderate.
The risk of not covering a substantial percent of operational costs through revenue, Moderate:
achievement of financial sustainability for LWSC is a key outcome indicator for the project.
LWSC was provided with funds under the original credit and additional financing, incremental
operating costs under category 2, to promote efficiency in water operations. LWSC has already
achieved the DFAPE target on operating margin. LWSC has also put in place a policy to install
prepaid meters on all customer connections as a long term solution to reduce customer debt. This
will reduce the cost of operations and ensure guaranteed income to LWSC.
Inaction with respect to DFAPE for LWSC or political interference, Moderate: the DFAPE
operated on incentives for LWSC to strive for higher efficiency standards. The performance
score for year 1, 3 and 4 of the DFAPE earned LWSC some performance incentives.
Failure to regularize the timely payment by government agencies of LWSC billing, High: the
risk was expected to be substantially minimized by the Economic Management and Growth
Credit, in which a time-bound restructuring plan for payment of the outstanding GRZ arrears to
utility companies was adopted. LWSC is currently installing prepaid meters at GRZ agencies as
a way of averting the risk.
Failure of LWSC to pay current bills in timely fashion, Moderate: LWSC fell behind in its
payments to suppliers due to growing arrears from government agencies. Once the installation of
prepaid meters on government agencies is complete, LWSC will be current with payments to its
suppliers.

6.0 Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

6.1 Bank performance
Component A: Banks performance in ensuring quality of the project – Satisfactory
The banks coordination and guidance on the project activities:During design phase of the
project, the Bank facilitated a participatory process that led to submission of all required
documents to the World Bank Board for approval. The Bank team was composed of well trained
and experienced specialists who did their best to guide the borrower’s team during design of the
project. There Bank’s disbursement team from Chennai conducted an in-depth financial review
of the project in 2010. A number of payments that LWSC had made were declared ineligible
expenditures despite the project presenting no objection letters from the task team leader. There
was no consistency in guidance on financial issues between the disbursement management team

                                               50
and the project task team on some issues, which in the view of the LWSC project team needed to
be harmonized.
Delays in disbursements: LWSC experienced delays in disbursements due to introduction of the
e-disbursement system. The signatories at the ministry of Finance faced challenges in appending
e-signatures and in most cases had to access the signature window by going to the World Bank
local office in Lusaka. This was also compounded by change in the disbursement management
from Chennai to Nairobi without proper notification to the LWSC project team. However, the
Nairobi team was very helpful in ensuring that our Withdrawal Applications were prioritized
after we managed to communicate with them.
Quality of implementation support missions: the Bank successfully undertook implementation
support missions every six months to review progress on the project. There was a change in Task
Team leaders in May 2011. However, the transition was well coordinated and this did not affect
implementation of the project.
Component B
Banks performance in ensuring quality of the project – Moderately Satisfactory

6.2 Borrower’s performance
Borrower performance in implementing the project – Moderately Satisfactory
Delayed effectiveness of the project:The additional financing credit for the project was approved
by the Bank management on 16th April 2009 but only became effective on 29th March 2011. This
prompted the extension of the closing date from June 2011 to June 2012 and greatly reduced the
implementation time for the project.
Delays in approvals of major procurements: The long response time from ZPPA for
procurement request submitted by the project team affected performance rating of the project.
There were delays in obtaining procurement clearance from the ZPPA, in some case by more
than three months in total. Procurement of the major works and goods contracts was severely
delayed and this lead to another extension of the credit closing date to 30th June 2013. This really
affected performance of the project because the implementation of the works contracts was not
based on reasonable timeframe but available time before closure of the credit.
Delayed disbursements on the project: the project experienced delays in disbursements due to
reluctance by some contractors to submit Interim Payment Claims. This was the case with most
Chinese Contractors. The other delay was due to the long lead time for procurement of
electromechanical equipment by contractors. Due to time constraint on the project, most
electromechanical equipment was delivered towards closing date of the project and this affected
the rating of the project during implementation support missions.

7.0 Lessons learned
The project implementation team draws a number of lessons from the project. Significant among
the lessons for informing future programming of similar investment include:
Design issues and project quality at entry: The borrower should invest in planning for the
project so that the packaging of contracts is relevant to the PDO. The idea of having a lot of
piecemeal contract packages with very minimal impact on the project is undesirable. This was
                                               51
the case with the contract for rehabilitation of sewer networks and sewage treatment plants,
which never took off due to budgetary constraints. The allocation in procurement plan was
US$950,000, but the investment requirement was later determined to be more than US$10million.
It is important for a project to timely hire competent consultants to clearly deign the scope of
works and undertake comprehensive designs. Tender documents have to clearly define what is
expected of bidders and the intended output of the project. This eliminates scope variations and
ensures completion of the project within time and budget.
Implementation issues: The early involvement of stakeholders in the project helps in speedy
completion of works. The case in point is the project for construction on 10 boreholes under the
original credit where the completion of works was substantially delayed due to delayed
connection of electricity to the newly constructed boreholes by ZESCO, the Power Utility
Company. However, this was corrected under the contracts for supply and installation of a
Modular Water Treatment Plant in Luangwa and the construction of three boreholes in Chilanga
under the additional financing credit. The power utility was engaged in good time and the
contracts did not experience any significant delays.
The involvement of local communities in the project, particularly the Water Committee of the
Ward Development Committee in areas where water kiosks were constructed in Lusaka
cultivated a sense of ownership and will ensure that facilities are protected for sustained benefit.
Instilling a sense of ownership in local communities is key to the sustainability of project
benefits. Involvement of the local leadership at Local Authority and Community level helped
instill a sense of ownership which will help in the sustainability of project benefits. However,
prolonged delays in completing projects may yield frustration in communities and this can lead
to vandalism.
Project leadership management style: The project management model adopted on the project
where management of the project was done by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was good.
The PIU was accountable to a project steering committee of the project on a monthly basis. The
project steering committee in turn fed into Senior Management, Works and Development
Committee of the Board of Directors for LWSC. LWSC also submitted quarterly progress
reports to NWASCO and the MLGH. However, it is important that the PIU is adequately staffed
with relevant specialists such Engineers, Accountants and Procurement personnel. This
eliminates possible delays due to the bureaucracy that obtains in the mainstream institutions. The
PIU had appointed specific staff to supervise major components of the project. This built
capacity in project management and improved quality of supervision.
Project outcome and need for projects next phase: The introduction of prepaid meters on
government institutions and domestic properties in Chongwe, Kafue and Luangwa has had a
positive effect. The usage of water is now properly regulated by customers and suddenly there is
excess water available for supply to other areas. It has reduced on cost of operations and the
customer debt owed to LWSC will with time be minimized, and eventually eliminated. Hence
there will be more revenue for LWSC. The impact will be more once LWSC completes the
installation of meters in Lusaka, where we expect that water loss at customer premises will be
greatly reduced, operational costs reduced and non-revenue water will come down.




                                                52
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage of
           Components                                Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                        millions)
Component A                              18.5              31.9             172
Component B                               1.1               1.1             100
            Total Baseline Cost          19.60             33.00
 Physical and Price Contingencies         3.40              0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs         23.00             33.00
Front-end fee PPF                         0.00              0.00            0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00              0.00            0.00
     Total Financing Required            23.00             33.00           143.48



(b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                 millions)   millions)
Borrower                                           0.00        0.00        0.00
International Development
                                                   23.00        33.00         143.48
Association (IDA)




                                          53
Annex 2: Allocation of Project Proceeds


           Category                 Initial Credit(expressed in XDR)          Additional Financing          Total         Total        Percent of
                                                                               (expressed in XDR)        Allocation    Expenditure     Appraisal
                                  Original     Revised        Actual        Allocation       Actual      (expressed    (expressed in
                                 allocation   Allocation   Expenditure                   Expenditure      in XDR)         XDR)
  (1) Goods, works,              9,400,000    12,250,000   12,159,001.11    5,850,000    4,080,833.76    18,100,000   16,239,834.87      89.7%
  consultants’ services,
  training, and Performance
  Payments under Component
  A of the Project
  (2) Operating costs for        2,400,000    2,400,000    2,412,502.28         650,000    78,348.77     3,050,000     2,490,851.05      81.7%
  Component A of the Project
  (3) Refund of Project           300,000      300,000      301,188.30            n/a         n/a         300,000       301,188.30        100
  Preparation Advance
  (4) Goods, consultants’         750,000      750,000      362,214.83            n/a         n/a         750,000       362,214.83       48.3%
  services, and training under
  Component B of the Project
  (5) Unallocated                 2,850,000        -             -              -               -             -             -             0%
  Total:                         15,700,000   15,700,000   15,699,786.14    6,500,000     4,498,516.06   22,200,000   19,394,089.05




                                                                           54
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                      55
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.    Project Appraisal Document (PAD) WSPIP- August 30, 2006
2.    Financing Agreement (WSPIP) December 22, 2006
3.    Financing Agreement (Amendment) September 29,2010
4.    Project Paper for Additional Financing – March 18, 2009
5.    Project Restructuring Paper, April 25, 2012
6.    Aide Memoires
7.    Implementation Status and results reports (ISRs)
8.    Development Financing Agreement for Performance Enhancement (DFAPE) between GRZ
      and LWSC
9.    Deed of Variation to the Development Financing for Performance Enhancement between
      GRZ and LWSC
10.   Special Performance Audit (WSPIP) – Year 1
11.   Special Performance Audit (WSPIP) – Year 2
12.   Special Performance Audit (WSPIP) – Year 3
13.   Special Performance Audit (WSPIP) – Year 4




                                            56
                                   22E                                                                                26E                                                                                     30E

                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lake
                8S                                                                                                                                                                                 Tanganyika

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sumbu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sumbawanga       AN ZAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TAN Z AN I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                Kaputa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mpulungu
                                                                                                                                                                                 Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                Mweru                   Lake                              Mbala                                  o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                         ZAMBIA                                                                                                                                                                        Mweru                                                                   Mbeya
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Wantipa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mporokoso
                                                                                                                                                                                        Nchelenge                                                                   Mwenzo
                                                                                          DE
                                                                                           EMMO CRAT
                                                                                                CRAT IC REPUBLIC
                                                                                              OCRAT                                                                                                                                                                                           o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                                             Kawambwa                                                                                      Karonga
                                                                                                   CO NGO
                                                                                               O F CONGO                                                                                                                                                                  Mafinga Hills
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2301 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Luwingu                         Kasama




                                                                                                                                                                                           PU
                                                                                                                                                                                         A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NORTHERN




                                                                                                                                                                                      LU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mzuzu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lake
                                                                          o
                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                          Mansa                     Bangwelu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Chambeshi                                               Malawi
                                                                       Caianda

                                                                                                                                                                                                     Samfya
                                                                                          Mwinilunga                                                                                                                          Kope

                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                 o                                                                                  Mpika




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    gw
                12S                                                                                                  Solwezi                                Lubumbashi                  Chembe                                                                                                             12S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Luan
                                                                                                     Chisasa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MOZAMBIQUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M
                                                                                                                                Mutanda
                                                       To
                                                        o                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mwanya
                                                                                                NORTH-                                                                       Mufulira                                                g




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  a
                                                     Lumbala                                                                                            Chingola                                                                 n
                                                                                                WESTERN                                                                            o Mokambo
                                                                                                                                                                                  To                                          hi
                                                                                                                                                                         Ndola                                           uc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M                             Mfuwe
                                         Chavuma                                                                          Kawana                    COPPER-                                                  Serenje                                                                     AW I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M AL AW
                 A N G OLA             Lun
                                             gw      Zambezi                            Manyinga
                                                                                                        Kasempa                                      BELT
                                 o
                                To             eb                                                                                ga                                                                                               Chisomo                      Chipata
                                                 u
                                                                                                                             L un
                             Lutembo                                                                                                                                                                 Mkushi
                                                   ng




                                                                                   Kabompo                                                                                                                                                    EASTERN
                                                      u




                                                                                                                                                                   Kapiri Mposhi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                 Busanga                                                                                              CENTRAL                                                               Katete
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lilongwe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Petauke




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            fwa
                                                                                  Swamp                                                         K afu                                                                                                                           o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                          Lukulu                                                                                  e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          em
                                                                                                                                                 L u k a n g a Kabwe                               Old Mkushi                                                              Furancungo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Luns
                                                                                                                          Lubungu                                                                                                        Nyimba
                                                                                                                                                 Swamp                                                                                                     MOZAMBIQUE
                                                              ezi




                                                                                   Kaema                                                                                                          Machechete
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MOZ AMBIQUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MOZAMBIQUE
                                                          Zamb




                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1488 m)
                                         Kalabo                                                                                                                                                 Rufunsa
                                                                                                                                                  Mumbwa
                                                                                         Luampa
                                                                                                                                                                    LUSAKA                                    Kaulishishi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ZAMBIA
                                                                    Mongu                                                                                                                                                 To

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WATER SECTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                   Chongwe                    (1420 m) Cahora o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
                                                                                                                                                                                                 AK
                                               Mavua                                                                                       ue                                                                               Bassa Bassa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Cahora
                                                                     WESTERN                                                            Kaf                                  Chilanga                        Luangwa
                                                                                                                                                                                        LUS
                                                                                                                     Namwala

                16S
                                                                                                                                                  Mazabuka                  Kafue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PERFORMANCE
                                         Mulonga                                             Kataba
                                o
                               To
                             Chiume       Plain
                                                                      Senanga

                                                                     Sitoti                                       SOUTHERN
                                                                                                                                                                         Chirundu            To
                                                                                                                                                                                              o
                                                                                                                                                                                            Harare                                                 IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                         Shangombo                               Malundano                                                                                   Kariba                                                                                        PROJECT SITES AND AREA
                                                                                                                                                         Pemba
                                                                                                                                      Choma                                                                                                                                CITIES AND TOWNS
                                              Cu                                           Mulobezi
                                                                                                                                                                         Lake                   ZIMBA BW E
                                                                                                                                                                                                ZIM BABW                                                                   PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                               an
                                                   do




                                                                                                                  Bowwood             Kalomo                             Kariba                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                              Sesheke                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVERS
                                                                                         To
                                                                                          o                                Senkobo
NOVEMBER 2013




                                                                                        Ngoma                                                                0         50       100       150       200 Kilometers                                                         MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 40502
                                                                    NAMIBIA
                                                                    NAMI BIA                                              Livingstone Pokuma                                                                                                                               RAILROADS
                                                                                                      o
                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                Mpandamatenga
                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                  o
                                                                                                                                                             0               50             100           150 Miles                                                        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                Matetsi
                                   22E                                           BOTSWANA
                                                                                 BOTSWANA                             26E                                                                                     30E                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
