Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20591
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CREDIT 2424-UG)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15.79 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
June 8,2000
Rural Development Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ugandan Shilling (UShs.)
At Appraisal: US$ = UShs. 1,000
At Completion: US$ = UShs. 1,356
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 -June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEP       Agricultural Extension Project
ARTP      Agricultural Research and Training Project
ASAC      Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CSDP      Cotton Sub-Sector Development Project
DFI       District Farm Institute
EFMP    Economic and Financial Management Project
FAO/CP  Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program with the World Bank
FEW       Field Extension Worker
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
MAAIF   Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
MTAC    Management Training and Advisory Center
NAADS   National Agricultural Advisory Services Program
NARO    National Agricultural Research Organization
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NURP    Northern Uganda Rehabilitation Project
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SCRP      Smallholders Cotton Rehabilitation Project
SMS       Subject Matter Specialist
SWRAP   South West Region Agricultural Project
T&V       Training and Visit
UES       Unified Extension Service
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director: James W. Adams
Sector Manager/Director: Sushma Ganguly
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: David Nielson



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
1.  Project Data                                                            1
2.  Principal Performance Ratings                                           1
3.  Assessment of Development Objective and of Quality at Entry             2
4.  Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                    5
5.  Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                     11
6.  Sustainability                                                         12
7.  Bank and Borrower's Performance                                        14
8.  Lessons Learned                                                        16
9.  Partner Comments                                                       17
ANNEXES
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators                                    19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                   20
Annex 3. Cost Benefit Analysis                                         22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                   23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs by
Component                                                              24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                      25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 7a Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                      26
Annex 7b Economic Benefits                                       34
Annex 7c ICR Mission's Aide Memoire                              45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






1. PROJECT DATA
Report Date:        June 8, 2000
Name:               Agricultural Extension Project
Country/Department Uganda/AFTRI                        Credit          2424-UG
Number:
Sector/Subsector:    Agriculture                       Region:         Africa
Key Dates                   Original                   Revised/Actual
Identification             Not Available               January 1990
Preparation                 Mid-1991                   April 1992
Appraisal                   April 1992                 May 1992
Approval                    September 1992             September 29, 1992
Effectiveness              December 1992               June 18, 1993
Mid-Term Review             March 31, 1992             September/October 1995
Closing                    June 30, 1998               December 31, 1998
Borrower                    Government of Uganda
Implementing Agency        Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
Other Partners             None
Staff                       Current                    AtAppraisal
Vice President              C.Madavo                   E.Jaycox
Country Director           J.Adams
Sector Manager             S.Ganguly                   J.Shivakumar
Team Leader of ICR         D.Nielson
ICR Primary Author         FAO/CP
Team Leader of Appraisal    -                          V.Mackrandilal
2. PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS
Outcome                       Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                Unlikely
Institutional Development     Modest
Impact
Bank Performance              Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance          Unsatisfactory
QAG                      ICR
Quality at entry              Not available            Marginally Satisfactory
Project at Risk at any time   Not available            Yes



3. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND OF
QUALITY AT ENTRY
3.1 Objective:
The broad objectives of the project were to address urgent needs for disease control and
yield improvements in agricultural production and to build public sector capacity to deliver
and support effective extension services. To this end the project aimed to improve: a)
efficiency in the delivery of extension services in 16 out of 38 districts in the country; b)
training capacity and skills of extension agents and farners; c) adoption of improved
techniques by farmers; and d) efficiency in management services in the Ministry of
Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAIFF) in order to support the delivery of
extension and ensure its sustainability. In addition to the stated objectives, it was foreseen that
the lessons and experiences gained through implementation of the project in the 16 originally-
targeted Districts would provide the basis for the design of an extension service which would
eventually achieve national coverage.
The original objectives were clear and continue to be important to the country. Project
preparation began on the heals of years of civil strife and economic mismanagement which
had devastated the economy. Agriculture was the most important sector in the economy. From
1986, with the return of political stability, agriculture had begun to recover, mainly through
expansion of the area under cultivation. By the early 1990s, however, agricultural production
was still slightly below that of 1970, while the rural population had increased by two thirds,
and rural incomes and productivity of land and labor had declined below levels achieved in
the late 1 960s. To address the deterioration and fragmentation of public agricultural research
and extension services, the two ministries responsible for crops, livestock, and fisheries were
amalgamated in 1991 to form MAAIF, and in 1992 the research programs were merged to
form the National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO). The Agricultural Extension
Project (AEP) and the Agricultural Research and Training Project (ARTP) were intended to
support MAAIF and NARO respectively, and thereby disseminate and develop improved
technologies aimed at increasing productivity and returns to agriculture. In this respect, the
AEP's focus on institution building was appropriate, and responded to government's
agricultural sector priorities and its overall objective of promoting broad-based economic
growth. Similarly, the AEP's objective was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) of supporting efforts to improve the climate for private investment and
production.
3.2   Components:
The project objective was to be achieved through four components:
(a)   Strengthening the delivery of extension services (US$9.55 million) through
provision of transport, equipment, rehabilitation of facilities, and incremental
operating costs;
(b)   Improvement in training capacity and skills (US$6. 10 million) through i)
provision of equipment, supplies, facilities and transport for regular in-service
training of extension staff and periodic farmer training at the District Farmer
Institutes (DFIs), with the involvement of research staff, ii) rehabilitation,
curriculum development and upgrading of staff capabilities at Bukalasa
2



Agricultural College; and iii) demonstrations at the DFIs and fanner-managed
trials in their own fields;
(c)   Strengthening of management systems (US$1.81 million) through i) training in
management and team building for MLAAIF staff at headquarters and in the project
districts; ii) staff training and consultancy services to improve financial
management, procurement, and budgetary procedures; iii) operational support for
monitoring and evaluation; and iv) improved office equipment and facilities;
(d)   Studies (US$0.28 million) on i) rationalization of the Training Institutes and
Colleges of MAAIF; ii) efficiency and impact of alternative technology transfer
mechanisms; iii) a Mid-Term Review and assessment; and iv) design of a follow-
on project.
In September 1994, roughly two years after the start of the project, the Development
Credit Agreement was amended to expand project coverage to 20 districts and to include
Arapai Agricultural College under the training component. Taken together, the array of
components formed a plan of investments and activities reasonably consistent with achieving
the project objective, including improving the management and implementation capacity of
MAAIF at its headquarters as well as at lower levels.
Operationally, the project supported a consolidation of several parallel programs of
publicly provided extension. Prior to 1992, agricultural extension was being carried out by
several ministries including the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Animal Industry, the
Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Energy, Minerals, Water, and Environmental Protection,
and the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, Cooperatives, and Marketing. With the support of
the Project, the Ministry of Agriculture was merged with the Ministry of Animal Industries
and Fisheries in 1992 to form the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industries, and Fisheries
(MAAIF). With this merger, the overall responsibility for agricultural extension, like that for
agricultural research, was consolidated into a single unified system within the new MAAIF.i
The consolidation of the parallel ministerial programs into a unified national system
was motivated by the desire to increase the efficiency as well as the effectiveness of public
extension programs by eliminating duplication of effort between the parallel services while
taking advantage of possible economies of scale by consolidation into one larger program. A
further reason for the consolidation of the parallel programs was the recognition that fractured
programs were not producing technologies and advice which were geared toward whole-farm
management. At times, the technical messages which were being broadcast by the parallel
programs were even contradictory in content.
Underneath the umbrella of the unified extension service, a Training and Visit (T&V)
system of management was instituted. A few months before appraisal, pilots of the new
extension program were launched in eight counties of four districts. Partly on the basis of the
progress observed under these (still, at the time, relatively short pilots), it was decided early
on and reported in the SAR that over time the new system would be introduced and supported
in all project districts.
This merger of public sector extension services into a single institutional entity led to the use of the title
"Unified Extension System" (UES).
3



As outlined above, it could be argued that the design of the program addressed a
number of the central concerns which were held with regard to the public sector agricultural
extension program at the time. Even so, both the ideas of the Unified Extension Service
(UES) and of the Training and Visit system of management were, from the beginning and
throughout the duration of the project, contentious design issues. This was particularly the
case outside the Bank, where skepticism with regard to the approach (based upon experiences
elsewhere) was widespread from the outset. Critics from among the ranks of Government,
development partners, and farmers themselves were increasing vocal in their concerns about
the approach as the program unfolded. Inside the Bank, the approaches chosen reflected the
mainstream thinking at the time and were being widely supported and applied across Africa.
The conclusion of this report is that sought after results on the ground were elusive. The
program never managed meaningfully to escape either the supply-driven top-down character
of the methodology nor the bureaucratic problems (such as ultimately unaccountable financial
management) which critics had feared. Over time, both critics and supporters of the original
program design began to converge in their thinking around ideas of how the extension
program could place more emphasis on empowering communities and farmers to analyze and
find their own solutions with assistance from outside facilitators. At the same time, there has
been a growing trend towards funding and delivery of extension (and research) in a mix of
public and private arrangements, decentralization of management, and ensuring that service
providers are more demand driven. The emerging consensus among stakeholders on these
issues has guided the design of the proposed follow-on program - the National Agricultural
Advisory Services Program (NAADS).
In retrospect, it seems clear that the design of the AEP was optimistic in expecting that
constraints to implementation of prior projects in Uganda such as inadequate and tardy
counterpart funding, poor salaries, and weak management and financial systems would be
addressed by measures under other Bank supported projects (SAC, ASAC, and EFMP2). Still,
to minimize institutional and financial risks, the AEP provided considerable support for
human resource development and the strengthening of management capacity and processes,
and for incremental recurrent costs. Nevertheless, the capacity of government to meet even a
small counterpart contribution proved to have been optimistic. To reduce complexity, the
design focused on extension, and rightly planned phased implementation thus allowing for
adjustments based on experience and resource availability. In practice, the project was scaled-
up much more rapidly than had been planned originally. This stretched resources and limited
management capacity - perhaps beyond what they could reasonably have been expected to
sustain.
3.3 Quality at Entry:
An assessment by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group is not available. The ICR rates
the quality at entry marginally satisfactory. The project objective was and remains
compatible with government priorities and the Bank's CAS. Preparation of the chosen
program design was in many respects fully satisfactory. As indicated above, the chosen
program design was in-line with the mainstream thinking of the Bank at the time. However,
as was argued from the outset by many observers, project design reflected a degree of
2 Structural Adjustment Credit, Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit, Economic and Financial Management
Project
4



centralization in its institutional structure which, in hindsight and with the benefit of wider
experience, proved to be overly bureaucratic and insufficiently responsive or accountable to
the needs of farmers. In addition, it can be argued that critical institutional and counterpart
funding constraints which had already plagued the performance of other Bank-supported
projects were not sufficiently dealt with in the project design. As a result, these issues, too,
haunted the project's performance throughout its period of implementation. Given the (even
then) mounting criticism from outside observers and the (even then) accumulating evidence of
frustrating results in the field, it remains unclear why, the program design chosen for this
program was and continued to be a mainstream approach to agricultural extension.
4. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE AND OUTPUTS
4.1 Outcome/Achievement of Objective:
The outcome of the project is rated unsatisfactory. Neither the desired improvements in
the efficiency and effectiveness of the extension program, nor the desired impact of the
extension program in terms of higher on-farm productivity and profitability were satisfactorily
achieved relative to what might have been hoped for. While some improvement in the
efficiency of extension delivery was achieved in the project districts, the extent of this gain
was significantly constrained by concentration of vehicles at the central level, late payment of
operating budgets and staff allowances, the non-linking of incentives to staff performance,
inadequate supervision, and the impact of government's public sector reform and
decentralization initiatives. Those efficiency gains that were achieved have not been sustained
post project. Further, despite significant investment in full time technical assistance at the
Headquarters level, very limited improvement in the efficiency of management services in
MAA1F was achieved as indicated by the poor project management and financial control
systems, tardy disbursement of project funds, late procurement of goods and services, delayed
civil works, establishment of inadequate monitoring and evaluation systems, and eventual
abolition of the Directorate of Agriculture Extension and transfer of responsibility for
coordinating extension to NARO.
While targets for training of central and district level agricultural staff were exceeded
and resulted in improved technical capacity, a high proportion of the beneficiaries left public
service, and achievements for training of FEWs and farmers fell well below target. Despite all
these shortcomings, training combined with the project provision of transport, operating
budgets and travel allowances for extension staff did contribute to some increase in awareness
and adoption of technologies. However, farmer contact and adoption of improved
technologies was markedly lower than planned in the SAR. An analysis of available data
indicates that the AEP did not have a significant impact on productivity and that the aggregate
increase in production and returns was insufficient to justify the project investment.
4.2 Output by Components:
a) Strengthening the Delivery of Extension Services (US$9.55 million, 54% of
costs)
This component provided for establishment and implementation of the new extension
system for crops, livestock, and fisheries in 16 districts or 67 counties. Mass media was to be
used to reinforce direct contacts between FEWs and farmers. Project coverage was to be
phased in over three years. Pilot operations had been started in eight counties of four districts
in the first season of 1992 with funding from ongoing projects and were to be expanded with
5



PPF funding in the second season. To implement this component, the project provided for
transport (vehicles for HQ and district officers, motorcycles for county officers, bicycles for
FEWs), equipment, and incremental operating costs, and long-term international technical
assistance.
Implementation of the component was unsatisfactory. The project became effective in
June 1993. All 16 districts were phased in by January 1994, well ahead of schedule. The pace
of the expansion of the program may have precluded the possibility of adequately adjusting
program design in response to problems which developed and probably outpaced the
development of experience and management capacity within the extension institution at every
level. In mid-1994, AEP assumed responsibility for financing extension in three more
districts formerly supported by the SWRAP, and in mid-1995 a further district was included
bringing the total to 20 districts with 87 counties, though one district was later absorbed by
the CSDP3. In effect the accelerated phasing and expansion of project coverage diluted the
resources available for the districts and severely challenged the program's still weak financial
and technical management capacity.
While FEWs who had been specialists in crops, livestock or fisheries now took on a
polyvalent role, concerns were widely raised as to the effectiveness of technology transfer
when FEWs dealt with topics outside their original expertise. Training was employed to help
to deal with this problem. However, only two thirds of FEWs were sent on short courses to
enable them to operate as generalists. Those who did get such training often received it well
after the functional unification had been launched. Organizational unification of agricultural
extension and technical services under a single authority was never fully institutionalized.
Initially, functional unification was achieved through designation of a district extension
coordinator from among the department heads, but FEWs remained staff of the various
MAIFF directorates. Heads of district departments performed as SMSs, although their
administrative functions and other duties assigned by their respective directorates in MAIFF
limited their availability to technically backstop the FEWs. Beginning in 1993, all district
staff became employees of the district governments. Their salaries and operational costs were
financed through unconditional block grants from central government. In each district a
District Production Department was established along commodity and disciplinary lines. A
large number of FEWs, mainly certificate holders, were retrenched reducing the intensity of
extension in many areas to as low as one FEW to 3000 farmers. Some districts immediately
abandoned functional integration and reverted to using specialized FEWs. By 1998 few
districts, if any, had institutionalized or were operating a UES effectively.
Procurement and distribution of transport to the 20 AEP districts was delayed and
inadequate relative to the number of staff and the area to be covered: only 14 vehicles, 197
motorcycles, and 536 bicycles for around 1100 field staff, SMSs and district managers. Of
these, 820 of these were FEWs. This meant that the ratio of field extensionists to farm
households was of the order of 1:2155.
During the period when functional integration of the program lasted and operating
budgets and allowances were available, the FEWs did increase contact with farmers,
undertaking on-farm demonstrations, field days and seed multiplication activities, including
3The UES/T&V approach was also introduced in nine other districts, eight of which were financed by the Bank
under the CSDP/SCRP and NURP operations and the ninth by DANIDA.
6



formation of mixed gender, women's and youth groups. A beneficiary assessment conducted
in 1997 indicated that each FEW regularly met with only 4 to 8 groups averaging 10 to 15
households. These figures were much lower than had been planned. Given these numbers, it
is estimated that about 40,000 to 100,000 farmers had regular contact with FEWs, about 2 to
5% of farmers in the project area. The project's coverage was further limited relative to plans
in that it made less use of mass media than had been envisaged at appraisal. For those farmers
with whom they did have contact, FEWs conveyed a range of technologies and
technical/management messages (improved seed, pest and disease control, simple crop
practices, improved livestock husbandry, aquaculture) and at least some farmers adopted4.
Collaboration with other projects and NGOs, particularly in supply and multiplication of
planting material, contributed to adoption. Adopting farmers reported yield increases but over
the project life national production data did not indicate any aggregate increase in
productivity.
From 1995, the third year of operation, late provision of counterpart funds and late and
non-payment of staff allowances adversely affected project activities including levels of
supervision, staff performance and morale. hnproved efficiency and cost effectiveness could
have been achieved if payment of staff allowances and salary support had been linked to
performance indicators. In 1997/98, a Village Level Participation Approach (VLPA) was
launched in eight districts aimed at increasing farmer participation and capacity in the
identification of priorities and the formulation of action plans. VLPA was widely appreciated
as a tool for encouraging and nurturing community level planning processes. However, for
many it was a disappointing experience in that, on its own, it provided only passive guidance
as to how communities might access resources with which to carry out the plans generated by
the VLPA process. As a result, introduction of this broad based approach within the context of
an agricultural extension project, which had only one year of implementation remaining,
resulted in unmet expectations. These observations emerged in a post-project beneficiary
assessment of the VLPA experience.
b) Improvement in Training Capacity and Skills (US$6.10 million, 34% of costs)
In general, implementation of this component was marginally satisfactory. There was
over-achievement of targets in terms of postgraduate training, study tours, and
demonstrations, resulting in over-expenditure against the training category. On the other hand,
much of the training was theoretical and there was under-achievement with FEW retraining,
farmer training, in rehabilitation of the District Farm Institutes and Agricultural Colleges, and
in improving the relevance of training provided. While a locally contracted Training
Specialist was employed throughout the project period, no counterpart was provided, a
training needs assessment was not carried out until mid-1997 (too late for project purposes),
and no evaluation of training impact was carried out.
Rehabilitation of the Arapai and Bukalasa Agricultural Colleges was not done. This is
largely due to the failure to employ a suitable civil engineer until near the end of the project
4 AEP contributed to adoption of a range of simple and more complex technologies. The 1997 beneficiary
assessment indicates that among the 2-5% of farmers who received regular contact from extensionists,
adoption averaged 60% for simple practices (timely planting, weed control and harvesting) and from 2545%
for improved seeds and planting material (in particular for maize and cassava), pest and disease control and
proper storage. Other less widely adopted technologies included fishpond development, and improved
livestock feeding and management.
7



and inadequate availability of counterpart funds. The curriculum of Bukalasa Agricultural
College was revised with the assistance of Makerere University and also adopted by Arapai
Agriculture College. The Bank questioned the appropriateness of the new curriculum in that it
offered four diplomas in various disciplines instead of one diploma for polyvalent technicians.
Notwithstanding these concerns, the colleges proceeded to implement the four options. The
target of upgrading 30 college staff was partially achieved: 18 lecturers were sponsored on
masters programs and on other training courses and study tours.
Rehabilitation of six District Farm Institutes (DFIs) was programmed including
provision of equipment and operational costs for staff and farmer training and to provide
audio-visual support. However only two of the DFIs were rehabilitated and procurement and
supply of equipment was delayed, adversely affecting their capacity to provide adequate staff
and farmer training. For example less than half of the courses targeted for farmers was
achieved. Despite these problems, the AEP reported implementation of over 800
demonstrations, about three times the target, of proven techniques (including animal traction
and agricultural processing equipment) on the farms attached to the DFIs. The AEP also
reported implementation of about 300,000 on-farm demonstrations over the life of the project.
A breakdown by type of demonstration is not available. Effective supervision of FEWs was
impeded by mobility constraints and late and non-payment of allowances, and independent
monitoring and evaluation of demonstrations was not undertaken. Therefore, the high number
of reported demonstrations and impact should be treated with caution.
About 60% of the planned orientation and reorientation courses on the extension
approach were implemented. Pre-season planning workshops for relevant staff were held
more or less as planned. Retraining of all FEWs in 5-week courses at the Agricultural
Colleges, to better equip the FEWs with the knowledge and skills required to operate as
generalists, was under-achieved, and the balance between theory and practice was considered
unsatisfactory by the Bank: 16 courses were implemented out of the 35 targeted.
Implementation of the retraining courses began long after functional integration of extension
had been established, and was suspended in 1997 due to inadequate funds. As a result only
5 10 out of some 820 FEWs were retrained. The intention to sponsor 80 Field Assistants
(certificate holders) through Agricultural Colleges for one year on specially designed diploma
courses was not implemented, reportedly because this category of staff was abolished.
Monthly planning and review meetings for FEWs and monthly training days conducted by
SMSs were reportedly held on a regular basis. FEWs considered this training inadequate, but
no other evaluation of this training is available.
Only a third of the planned bi-monthly technical workshops for SMSs to interact with
researchers were held, mainly due to shortage of funds. It was planned to sponsor at least 15
district level SMSs on masters programs at Makerere University, and six SMSs on overseas
degree training in specialized interdisciplinary areas for which there was no program at
Makere. In practice, 47 SMSs (plus the 18 lecturers noted above) were sponsored on masters
degrees, of which nine went abroad. In addition, 7 FEWs were sponsored on first-degree
programs and another six FEWs were sponsored on six- to eight-month postgraduate diploma
courses abroad. Public sector restructuring resulted in retrenchment of over 50% of the staff
who undertook postgraduate training with project assistance.
Compared to the 30 targeted at appraisal, 49 internal and external study tours were
organized involving staff, civic leaders, and farners. Towards the end of the project a number
8



of training courses and workshops, for project staff, civic leaders and farmers, were organized
in order to implement the Village Level Participatory Approach in eight districts.
c) Strengthening of Management Systems (US$1.81 million, 10% of costs)
Implementation of this component was unsatisfactory. Project management allocation
of resources was concentrated at the national rather than the district/local level, in terms of the
number of vehicles (21 out of 36 vehicles procured were assigned to the headquarters level),
over achievement of national level training targets and under achievement of district/farmer
targets, and the four-fold increase in non-field recurrent expenditure. This imbalance in
resource allocation reduced project effectiveness and impact. A locally contracted finance
officer was recruited from 1993 to 1996, but an effective counterpart was not assigned until
1996. The number and capacity of support staff was inadequate and implementation of
training for AEP and district accounts staff delayed5 As a result, for most of the project period
financial procedures, accounting systems, and controls were inadequate, and caused a
bottleneck. Besides poor budget monitoring and control, asset management was almost non-
existent, and control of payments and advances was weak and serious cause for concern. In
particular, lack of supporting documentation for expenditure was common, especially for field
staff allowances. A locally contracted procurement specialist was employed from 1993 to
1998, without a counterpart. It took three years to complete most of the procurement.
Provision for management training seminars for senior and district level management staff
was under-achieved: 24 seminars were organized by MTAC compared to the 33 targeted. A
short-term international management-training specialist was not recruited as planned, to avoid
duplication of similar assistance expected from, but never provided by, the Agricultural
Sector Management Support. Planned construction of new offices and rehabilitation of
existing ones was not undertaken due to the long delay in recruiting a civil engineer, changes
in priorities and the higher levels of counterpart funding required.
Provision was made to support the design and implementation of an improved
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system. An M&E unit comprised of two senior officers and
two support staff was established in MAIFF under the Commissioner for Agricultural
Planning. A local consultant was employed for six months in 1993 to design the M&E
system. The SAR provided a list of progress and impact indicators and these were more or
less adhered to in AEP reporting. Rather general and vague definition of the impact
indicators, however, led to difficulties in meaningfully quantifying and measuring project
impact. Reporting by FEWs and consolidation by each level of management provided the
basis for developing the management information system. The number of studies to assess
effectiveness and impact was less than planned, especially in relation to quantitative
assessment. A baseline survey for 1992 was not undertaken until 1994, resulting in probable
recall bias. In 1995, district extension staff carried out a farmers follow up survey, and zonal
officers implemented an extension staff survey. Some questioned the credibility of those
reports which were generated systematically. For example, the high level of reported contact
with farmers, and of farmer awareness and adoption of recommendations was an issue.
Sampling procedures and biased reporting by FEWs and of enumeration by district staff were
criticized. The beneficiary assessment conducted by a local consulting company in 1997 and
other independent surveys indicated lower levels of farmer contact.
An international recruited financial management specialist was recruited for six months to streamline the
accounting system and train accounts staff.
9



d) Studies (US$0.28 million, 1.6% of costs)
Implementation of this component was unsatisfactory. Government's ICR for the AEP
reports that the required study on rationalization of the roles of the Training Institutes and
MAAIF was partly covered by the Training Needs Assessment carried out by MTAC in 1997.
While the MTAC assessment provided a basis, albeit rather late, for the preparation of
training programs it fell far short of the required output. The study on efficiency and impact of
alternative technology transfer mechanisms was not carried out. As a result of the failure to
complete both of these studies, opportunities were missed to ensure more cost-effective use of
public resources. The mid-term review (MTR) was completed in October 1995, six months
later than scheduled. A proposal for design of a follow on project was completed in October
1997, Both the MTR and the proposal for a second phase failed to anticipate the current vision
for support to extension which puts the sub-county level of government and farmers in the
driving seat and allows outsourcing and a plurality of service providers and methodologies.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic and Financial Rates of Return:
As was the case for many similar projects, the SAR did not provide a calculation of the
Net Present Value of the project. It provided an economic justification for the AEP by
comparing plausible outcomes to the minimum incremental agricultural GDP which would
have been required in order to have achieved an internal rate of return (IRR) of 15%. The
figure 15% was, somewhat arbitrarily, treated as the break-even rate. The key assumptions
were that in the project area 55% of farmers would be contacted and 60% of these farmers
would adopt improved technologies, giving an adoption rate for all farmers of 33%. Based on
these parameters, as little as a 1.2% increase in project area productivity would be sufficient
to generate an incremental return of US$8 per adopting household and an aggregate 15% IRR
for the project. This level of increase was judged feasible.
For the ICR, an expost analysis of the same sort has been carried out using data from
AEP surveys6, other related study findings, and secondary data sources. Allowing for a
multiplier effect, it was assumed for the purposes of the economic analysis here that directly-
contacted farmers (around 2-4% of all farmers) spread the information they received to their
neighbors so that an estimated total of 8% of all farmers gained awareness of the messages
being disseminated by the AEP extension staff (an assumption consistent with the beneficiary
assessments of the program. The 8% of farmers regularly becoming acquainted with FEWs'
messages was much lower than planned, and the adoption of improved technologies at 40%
was also lower. At these levels a productivity increase of 14.5%, equating to an incremental
return of US$97 per adopting farm household, would have been required to achieve an overall
IRR of 15% for the project. The feasibility of achieving the incremental production and
increased farm household returns has been assessed using indicative enterprise budgets and
farn household returns based on regional farming system models incorporating the improved
technologies and practices extended by AEP. The models indicate that with farmers adopting
four to six of the improved technologies for annual crops and bananas, the incremental return
per household for the different regions ranged from US$23 to US$4 1. These levels of
household incremental return are inadequate for the project to generate an IRR of 15%. At 8%
extension coverage and 40% adoption, farmers would have had to adopt a number of
6 AEP studies to assess project effectiveness and impact were much less comprehensive than had been planned,
especially in relation to quantitative assessment. Consequently, data from these sources do not provide a
sufficient basis for the evaluation. For this reason, estimates of project benefits have been prepared here
using secondary data sources.
10



additional improved practices for perennial crops to generate the required incremental return
of US$97 for the project to break even7. The probability that this occurred is very low as these
improved practices involve significantly higher input costs, and farmers' inability to access
credit is a major constraint to adoption. On this basis, it can be judged with near certainty that
the incremental farm household returns generated by the project were inadequate to result in
an overall IRR of 15% for the project, and, further, it is clear that the AEP had a very limited
impact on overall productivity. This conclusion is supported by national agricultural
production statistics, which do not indicate any improvement in productivity over the life of
the project.
4.4 Institutional Development Impact:
Institutional Development Impact was modest. Significant investment in training has
improved the capacity of a large number of professionals that will benefit government, other
projects and the private sector. However, as noted earlier the UES was not institutionalized
and functional integration of extension is no longer practised. The modest efficiency gains in
the delivery and management of extension achieved by the project have not been sustained
post project. Central government's transfer of responsibility for financing and implementing
extension to the Local Government Councils in 1994, the retrenchment of a large number of
agricultural staff at both the central and district levels, the abolition of the Directorate of
Agricultural Extension in 1998 and the transfer of responsibility for coordinating.extension at
the national level to NARO are potentially positive institutional changes but were not
instigated by AEP.
5. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
5.1    Factors outside control of government or implementing agency:
Factors outside control of govemment or implementing agency which influenced
implementation of project activities included:
* limited private sector involvement in agricultural sector service delivery and marketing;
* low commodity returns.
5.2 Factors subject to government control:
Factors subject to government control which influenced implementation of project
activities included:
*  limited farmer access to input supplies (including improved seed, fertilizer, and credit)
and markets;
*  poor rural infrastructure;
* insufficient sensitisation and awareness raising of district governments, prior to and
during project implementation resulted in limited project ownership and reduced
commitment;
*  public sector restructuring and decentralization reduced the number of FEWs in project
areas and resulted in retrenchment of many staff who had benefited from postgraduate
training under the project;
7 Sensitivity analysis indicates that if extension coverage is increased to 20%, which is optimistic, and adoption
reduced to 25%, incremental retums of US$65 per adopter are needed to reach the break-even point For the
same extension coverage and adoption at 40% an incremental return of US$38/adopter is required.
11



* inadequate and delayed counterpart funding particularly affected civil works and
incremental operating expenses, which in turn negatively affected performance and staff
morale;
* organizational restructuring at MAAIF and the transfer of extension responsibility to
NARO in 1998 disrupted project implementation and financing.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control which influenced
implementation of project activities included:
* staff salary supplements and allowances were not performance based;
* deficient financial management;
* weak project management;
* centralised implementation and concentration of resources at the headquarters level,
reduced project impact at the district and field levels;
* the positive bias in monitoring and evaluation reporting misled project management, the
government, and the Bank;
* increased linkages with other extension service and technology providers (NGOs,
education institutions, research institutions, and local governments) contributed to
technology adoption.
5.4 Costs and Financing:
The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at US$17.75 million over 5 years. The
Bank's commitment amounted to US$15.79 million or 90% of overall costs, for civil works,
vehicles and equipment, technical assistance, training, demonstrations and field trials, and
incremental recurrent costs. Government's commitment amounted to US$1.96 million.
During the project significant changes were made in expenditure ceilings and financing
percentages under particular categories, such that the Bank ended up financing 95% of total
project costs. In part this reflected increases in the scale and scope of some activities, which
occurred with the addition of the four extra districts, increases in levels of training and
operating expenses, and changes in priorities in terms of civil works and other activities that
required higher levels of counterpart funding. Significant transfers (over US$2.2 million)
were made from civil works and consultant services (US$0.35 million), and used to fund
incremental expenditure on training (additional US$1.5 million), field operations (additional
US$1.3 million) and non-field operations (additional US$1.2 million, or 4 times the original
provision). As a result, at project closure field and non-field operating costs accounted for
48% of total Bank costs, and training 25%. Overall Bank disbursements amounted to US$15.7
million (98.8% the original target), with only US$116,000 cancelled.
6. SUSTAINABILITY
6.1 Rationale for Sustainability Rating:
Sustainability is rated unlikely. The project focused strongly on institutional capacity
building through human resource development and the strengthening of extension service
delivery by providing financial support for operating expenses and staff allowances. The
improved capacity in human resources is sustainable in the short term. However, the
extension delivery system as supported by the project is not. The extension delivery system
adopted was relatively high cost, and required large recurrent expenditures to maintain it. Its
12



bureaucratic structure was heavily criticized and lost political and popular support. The
project did not assess alternative more cost-effective approaches, or establish performance-
based mechanisms that would have improved accountability, or introduce mechanisms that
would increasingly leverage cost sharing by different levels of government, the private sector
and beneficiaries. Government and donors continue to place high priority on agricultural
extension and show a willingness to invest substantial amounts of money in an effective
program - but not a program structured along the lines put in place under AEP. On the
positive side, farmers who adopted the technologies and improved their returns are likely to
continue utilizing these techniques.
At design, it was estimated in project documents that a 10- to 15-year period would be
required before government itself would be able to absorb the recurrent costs of agricultural
extension. In the five years of AEP, public sector reform and decentralization resulted in
reduced staffing levels and the transfer of extension staff to district government, restructuring
and downsizing of MAAIF at the central level and transfer of responsibility for coordinating
extension to NARO. One outcome of the transfer of administrative and financial
responsibility to district government during and after the project has been a tendency in most,
if not all, districts to change back from the UES to a technical line department FEW approach.
In general, this has been accompanied by further reductions in recurrent budget allocation to
extension. District governments are provided with unconditional block grants but they have
shown little commitment to meeting the costs of the agricultural extension system established
by AEP. Since project completion, district agricultural offices have been given only very
limited funds and extension activities have been severely curtailed. Funds to maintain and
upgrade the technical skill levels developed during the project are also likely to remain very
limited. At the national level the rationalization of MAAIF has resulted in a large number of
project trained staff moving outside the ministry. The existing MAAIF budget is inadequate to
sustain the level of technical support provided to district offices during the project. A new
more sustainable approach will be adopted under the follow-on project (National Agricultural
Advisory Services program) under which funds will channeled directly to the Districts and
Sub-counties on a matching conditional grant basis.
6.2 Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation:
In 1998, Government approved a presidential initiative to recruit, under permanent and
pensionable conditions of service, university graduates in agriculture, veterinary services and
fisheries to serve at each sub-county in the country. As there are 888 sub-counties this implies
recruitmnent of 2,664 graduates. The salary and operational costs associated with the graduate
scheme are being met by conditional grants out of the Poverty Action Fund from the center to
the districts. By November 1999, 43 out of 45 districts had recruited a total of 444 graduates
and a tender had been launched to purchase motorcycles for the graduates.
The recently approved ARTP-II provides bridging finance for design of the Bank's
follow-up support including pilot activities to test modalities to improve technical support for
the decentralized extension services. In August 1999, under the auspices of government's
Modernization Plan for Agriculture, a Task Force on Agricultural Extension presented a
report entitled "Strategic Framework for Agricultural Extension in Uganda". Subsequently a
group of donors have agreed to work with the Task Force in the design of a National
Agricultural Advisory Services (NAADS) program. The program will be based on the
following principles: further decentralization of responsibilities for extension to the sub-
county level and possibly beyond using conditional matching grants, separation of public
13



funding from public implementation of extension in the field to be accomplished through
contracting out of extension services, cost-sharing between levels of government and clients,
greater interface with the agricultural research community to be achieved by giving
extensionsists and farners and local governments more control over research activities
through giving them a budget to hire in research activities, and through giving them more
voice at research planning and priority setting meetings; strong emphasis from extension on
(among other things) the management of the farm as a business enterprise and improving
farner's capacity and skills at accessing and using input and output markets. Donors have
indicated that they are interested in joint financing the NAADS. Ajoint donor pre-appraisal
mission to review progress is planned for May 2000.
7. BANK AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank played a key role in the design of a program which, in retrospect, was overly
centralized and bureaucratic. It did not help to establish an incentive and institutional
framework that would motivate and support staff performance and enhance accountability to
their clients, or increase cost-sharing by public and private sector stakeholders. All of these
factors hindered extension's effectiveness and its ultimate sustainability. Further, the design
did not adequately take into account or address other major constraints (access to credit, weak
market systems, limited private sector provision of supporting services, poor infrastructure)
that affect farmers' adoption of technologies. It also over-estimated government
implementation and financing capacity and did not give sufficient priority to establishment of
sound financial management and monitoring and evaluation systems.
7.2 Supervision:
Twenty-three supervision missions were undertaken during project implementation over
the period, 1992 to 1999. The supervision reports seem on the whole unjustifiably positive
about results being achieved on the ground. This led to often contradictory conclusions. On
the one hand most reports noted serious project management and financial problems, poor
auditing, delays in operating funding and allowances adversely impacting staff performance,
the lack of an operational financial management system, weak mnonitoring and evaluation
systems, lack of proper management of the training program, lack of counterparts for
contracted technical assistance staff. On the other hand the reports consistently indicated
important training achievements, impressive progress with FEW-farmer contact, widespread
farner adoption of improved technologies and practices, and steady improvement in the
quality of M&E reporting. The unsatisfactory performance of three out of four project
components, and the low level of FEW-farmer group contact and lower than targeted adoption
rates call into question the reliability of the assessments conveyed in the field reports which
were prepared for supervision missions.
In general, where supervision missions left recommendations, there seemed to be little
effective follow-up and most of the major issues were long-standing with key issues which
had been discussed during numerous supervision missions remaining unresolved over the life
of the project. While a number of assessments of the effectiveness of the program were
carried out, they were not put to use during the mid-term review in a manner which might
14



have effected a reform in the design of the program along the lines being pursued during the
follow-on project. Nor did they lead to effective solutions to the persistent problems with the
programs financial management. Nor did they lead to reforms which might have shifted the
pattern of expenditures under the program so that a greater share of program funds might have
been channeled away from headquarters and into the field where extension agents were
frequently left without funds with which to operate.
One area where Bank supervision was responsive to the issues emerging in project
implementation was in the development of the VLPA initiative. This was clearly an attempt
to instill more meaningful client participation into the direction of the program. While the
ultimate results of the VLPA experience were mixed, important lessons were learned (these
are now being articulated through the analysis of a beneficiary assessment undertaken
subsequently to the close of the project).
7.3 OverallBankPerformance:
Overall Bank Performance is rated unsatisfactory. In hindsight, it is clear that neither
the design nor the supervision of the project was fully satisfactory in leading to the
development of an extension institution which could ultimately be either effective or
sustainable. The failure to begin dealing with the problems in the program's design at the
mid-term review stage prolonged the emerging problems. However, lessons have been
learned and are playing a central role in the articulation of the approach which will form the
basis of the follow on project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The design of the extension institution was overly bureaucratic and centrally controlled.
7.5 Government Implementation Performance:
The establishment of a substantial institutional structure with which to carry out
extension was an impressive achievement. However, it was far too inflexible in nature and it
was never satisfactorily operated or maintained. Lack of adequate counterpart staffing for the
technical assistance, delayed counterpart funding, poor financial control, and the failure to
formally institutionalize the UES system were major issues during implementation. The mid-
project decentralization of the extension services to Districts was a good decision, but not
enough was done to prepare and support this fundamental change in the structure of the
extension services.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The decision to speed up the phasing in of districts and expand project area coverage
spread resources more thinly and stretched the limited management and technical
backstopping capacity. Throughout the project period, administration was weak. Financial
management and disbursement systems were inefficient delaying fund allocation and
distribution to the districts. This impacted significantly on the level and effectiveness of
project activities. Poor auditing practices delayed presentation of audited accounts. While
technical assistance support in terms of long-term staff was provided with an extension
adviser, financial, procurement and training staff, the effectiveness of this support must be
questioned given the lack of operational systems and procurement delays. Inadequate
monitoring and evaluation systems were established, and a number of planned studies to
15



assess quantitative performance and impact, and the effectiveness of alternative extension
systems were not undertaken, and were a major constraint in assessing the project
performance and providing a basis for adjustments. This led to concerns as to the reliability of
survey data and findings.
7.7 Overall Borrower Performance:
Taking into account the weaknesses in project preparation, delayed and inadequate
government funding, and poor implementation of the project, overall borrower performance is
rated unsatisfactory.
8. LESSONS LEARNED
Market Linkages
Liberalizing input and output markets, together with public sector financing of
technology development and dissemination, are on their own insufficient conditions for rapid
and widespread adoption of technologies. Other interventions in support of market linkage
development are required: road network improvements; development of farmer organizations
to help increase farmers' bargaining power and reduce transaction costs for suppliers and
buyers; development of savings and credit associations and linkages with financing
institutions; supporting rural stockists/buying agents by facilitating links to wholesalers and
access to credit and by providing training in stock management and input use. Working with
farmers to help them to become more capable and effective in dealing with these issues
should be a more central part of the job description for extensionists in their work with
farmers.
Project Management and Capacity Building
Priority should be given to the establishment of sound financial management, internal
auditing and progress monitoring systems at all levels, and to closely monitor and backstop
operation of the systems throughout the project period.
Greater efforts are required to ensure reporting is more objective and that it provides
management with the information required to make adjustments necessary to improve
performance and cost-effectiveness. Potential conflict of interest in impact assessments could
be reduced by outsourcing to local organizations but with supervision and critical review
provided by independent external consultants.
Provision for training should ensure a proper balance between theory and practical skills
and should be more demand-driven. Systematic assessment of training needs, effectiveness
and impact is required. A strong training emphasis should be given to enabling extensionists
to become more effective at participatory techniques of problem identification and action
planning.
16



Approach to Extension
Effectiveness and sustainability of any publicly financed extension service, regardless
of the methodologies used, will be difficult to achieve if mechanisms are not put in place to
ensure that extensionists (and researchers) are more accountable to their clients and financiers.
Given the range and diversity of client needs and requirements, and the variety of
extension approaches available, the institutional structure of the program should support
pluralism in approach depending upon the need. Different extension approaches and delivery
systems (public, private, NGO) which respond to these pluralistic requirements should be
considered including empowerment of farmer organizations and lower levels of government
to pull in specialists in accordance with their priorities. Evaluations and comparisons of
approaches should be one of the important roles of the central level extension office.
The various extension providers - government, farmer organizations, and NGOs -
tended to focus independently on the same farmers. However, where it took place,
collaboration and cost sharing between these various programs contributed to technology
adoption. A great deal of attention should be devoted to establishing ways to encourage joint
working and financing.
Supervision and assessment of impact of a large number of FEWs delivering a wide
variety of simple messages and supporting a large number of small on-farm demonstrations is
costly and difficult. Maintaining farmer group cohesion is difficult unless the FEW is
perceived as having something to offer either in knowledge or material terms. The quality of
dialogue and the multiplier effect may be higher with fewer, better-trained and well-supported
extensionists. Similarly, focusing on a smaller number of high impact, strategically located,
and verifiable demonstrations of technology options may be more cost effective. Incentives
for extensionists should be linked to verifiable performance.
9. PARTNER COMMENTS
(a) Borrower/Implementing Agency:
In November 1999, the Permanent Secretary to MAIFF presented a policy paper on
agricultural extension to a National Forum on Decentralization. In the assessment of
experience with extension to date the paper states "Efforts to revive the Agricultural
Extension Services since 1986 have made very little impact particularly in respect to food
production. These efforts have been criticized for lack of ownership by the major
beneficiaries, the farmers, thus making the interventions non-responsive to farmers' needs and
concerns but rather supply driven by the center, largely offering unviable and unsustainable
packages. The research-extension-market linkages and the delivery systems have also been
inadequate. Extension agents reach less than 10% of the farmers, technology adoption rates
are estimated at less than 35% while on-farm technology production levels are below one
third of the research station performance levels. The agricultural sector remains a low-input,
low-output activity with high levels of transaction costs, post harvest losses and therefore, low
levels of agricultural enterprise profitability." In contrast the contribution to the ICR prepared
in December 1998 by the out-going management of the AEP claims that "The project has
successfully contributed toward institution building, capacity building, capacity utilization
and above all in improving production and the socio-economic status of the farmers. The
17



project facilitated the development and organization of an integrated system, which is being
implemented in 33 districts of Uganda. This has resulted in improved extension service
delivery as 75% of the farmers reported contacts with extension staff, ...the diffusion of
improved technologies under the project generated substantial increases in agricultural
production, awareness of recommended crop practices increased for 60% of farmers and of
these 75% adopted the recommendations". The findings of this ICR strongly support the
statement made by the Permanent Secretary to MAIFF and seriously question the reporting by
the AEP.
(b) Other partners (donors/NG(Os/private sector):
In June 1998, a memorandum from the Bank's Country Director for Uganda to the Task
Manager for AEP stated "For all of its achievements in establishing a national service, the
current project has received a great deal of criticism within Uganda". The ICR mission's
meetings with numerous major donors and NGOs confirmed that other partners considered
the AEP unsatisfactory and that it had had little development impact.
18



Annex 1
Key Performance Indicators
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Adopting farm families                                    392,000                                  80,000
No. of adopting women and young farmers                     60,000                                    NA
% of readopting families                                     90%                                      NA
% of adopting families practicing agro-forestry               15%                                     NA
% of families practicing agro-pastoral systems               25%                                      NA
Average % increase in yields from baseline
crops                                                         50%                                     NA
livestock                                                     35%                                     NA
no. of fishponds established                                 2,000                    3683 (2860 stocked)
Average increase in family income (current US$)                 10                                     30
* Latest estimates provided by the project were considered inflated and therefore have not been listed. The only estimates given are
based on comparison and assessment of various AEP surveys and other related studies. NA indicates that reliable data were available
neither from the implementing agency.
Output Indicators:
Vehicles procured                              __________                                           100%
Counties covered                                               6787
Fanning families contacted                                710____ 000_                            200,000
Improvement in Skills of Extensionists and Farmers
Rehabilitation of Bukalasa College % completed                                                        0%
Lecturers trained                                                                                      18
Retraining of FEWs                                                _                                   510
No. of SMSs trained                                             15                                     55
Person days spent on training by researchers                  256                                   1,380
Demonstrations of Improved Techniques          l_100%_____
No. of demos at DFIs                                          290                                     862
No. of demos on farmers' plots                               1850                                 305,127
Strengthening of Management Systems
Person days of training                                       685                                     720
Person days of training for district staff                    533                                     480
Studies
Rationalization of Ag. Training                                                                  not done
Institutes/Colleges atDFIs29
Efficiency of various extension methods                                                          not done,
Preparation of follow-on project  sta0completed
1 9



Annex 2a
Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Delivery of Extension                      |8.09                               NA
Extension Training                                    5.14                     NA
Management Systems                                    1.54                     NA
Studies                                               0.24          |NA||
Total Base Costs                                      15.01                    NA
Physical Contingencies                                1.63                     NA
Price Contingencies                                   1.11                     NA
TOTAL Project Costs                                   17.75                    NA
NA=Not Available.
IDA Disbursements by Expenditure Category (in US$ million equivalent)
lCivil Works                                           2.38                    0.12               5.1%
{Vehicles and Equipment                     |1.86                    |1.90                       102.1%
Technical Assac                                        .011                                       54
Training                                              2.48                     3.96              159.8%
Demonstrations and Field Trials                       00.64                                      101.8%
Incremental Recurrent Costs: Field Operations         4.58                     5.88              128.3%
Incremental Recurrent Costs: Non-Field                0.36                     1.56              432.9%
Operations                                                            __|_ __I
Refund of PPF Advance                                  0.5                     0.41              82.0%
Sub-total                                             14.29                                       0.0%
Unallocated                                           1.50                                        0.0%
TOTAL             15.79                    15.60             98.8%
20



Annex 2b
Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent) 11
E E | l | l  g g  g .901    0.251                   3.151                     
1E || |  I || I      |  .881         0.21           2.181                     
| | | | || | | |        1|1  1  1 5.531     15531                   
| | 0 | 1|1 lg  |       1~6.89            i6.89                                         i
I | |1E g| g  1!  4.781    0.351    12.621          17.751                    
Note: NBF= Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultants
imder trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items).
The procurement arrangements for items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as NBF
need to be explained in footnotes to the table.
1/ Actual disbursement data by procurement method not available.
21



Annex 2c
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent) 1/
Management Systems    1.63        0.18
Studies          ~0.28      0.01
Total Project Costs    15.79      1 96
1/ Note: Actual disbursement by component not available.
Annex 3
Cost Benefit Analysis
15%.      Less than l15%1 __ _ _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _
Note The SAR did not include a traditional cost benefit analysis. The methodology used was
based on a sector program approach, and involved estimating the incremental GDP required
from adopting farmers in the project for it to generate an IRR of 15%, which was used as the
break-even rate. As no baseline without project or with project economic data was collected
during AEP, the ICR has used a similar methodology, and in addition has assessed whether the
incremental retums were feasible at the household level using regional fami models that
incorporate improved technologies. The results indicate that AEP was not viable as the IRR is
less than 15%.
See main text and the Annex 7b on Economic Benefits for additional information.
22



Annex 4a
Bank Inputs: Site Visits
. l  |   i   _ J a~~~Jn  90 - Apr 92  |                    n.a.          |n.a
. l  |   |   N May-S~ay-ep, 92    |Ag.Ec.Ex.FA.ln.Pr
.        ' |      _Noov 13-25, 92    AS.EX          __1_           _ _
|  l   |    M ar2;~~ar 11,93    EC                       rT  
1/Key to typesJul of23,expert2xise:
|  l   |    S e~~~Sp   4-8, 93      TEX.I_     
Ag  Agriculturalist    Ja  n  19-Feb 4, 94 nEC FAn ge.men
AS =  griclturl Sevice  MEg Moniorin and9 Evaluatio
i   Diursemen OctGOspecia24-27,94         TEX.
. l  l   |   _ J a~~~Jn  12-20, 95   |EX.       _                          s      
Ec  EconomistNRMp 16 Natur,  Anes c.2Ex.Tr.20p Mana
i  |  i F      e~~~Fb   1-14, 96  6 Ag.Di.Ex ME O         sI
Ex  Extension              Opr 2 O      peratin,6 OgMEr
FAv-22 Fiania |An.AlS. i 2xTPr S Prcuemn
FM=FinancialManagement Tr 19Educat,i97  |Ag.FMnTr aU iS
H Hgluaiaty ui 12 U7 S TSa .Eti XFA-OPaNGOtU oS
23.EX.OP.NGO
_   J      a       n~~~~~~~a 21-29, 97   |AS              I                  
0 _     J     u      n~~~~~~u 30-Jul 17, 98 Ec_+8 others                   s      
_>n~~~~~~~~a 23-Feb 5, 99 12EC.EX.OP                                     S  
I/Key to types of expertise:
Ag = Agricufturalist        In =  Institutions and Management
AS  = Agricultural Services  ME  =  Monitoring and Evaluation
Di =  Dibursement            NGO  =  NGO  specialist
EG =  Economist              NRM  =  Natural Resource Management
Ex =Extension                Op =Operations Officer
FA =Financial Analyst        Pr =Procurement
FM =Financial Management   Tr = Education and Training
2/ Performance Ratings recorded in Form 590slPSRs and in the ICR:
HS = Highly unsatisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory; S = Satisfactory
23



Annex 4b
Bank Inputs: Staff *
| | | 11  |    ~14.6                  25.4
2 | | | 10 lX    26.6                   78.3
| | l | | |    E   173.3                539.7_
| 0 | 11  11[~~                        71.9
| | | S 01  g    214.5                 715.3
Annex 5
Ratings for Achievement of Objectives ** / Outputs by Components
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Notes:   Also ildes Bank-fi e a
I s to t  o  
24 I   x
11_               I           I x - I                I                  I~~~~~~
1 _    1              1           1_  1                 1    X    I~~~~
I I I I I~~~~~~~
Notes: *Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants
**Relates to the objectives specified in the SAR
24



Annex 6
Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
25



Annex 7a
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, ANIMAL INDUSTRY AND FISHERIES
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(CR 2424-UG)
DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREPARED BY
DIRECTORATE OF AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION, DECEMBER 1998
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
Agricultural Extension in Uganda has undergone numerous changes since
independence. In the colonial and immediate post-colonial era, it was mainly regulatory and
carried out by chiefs, who enforced the production of certain crops (e.g. coffee, cotton), which
were for foreign exchange earnings. In the 50's, the Government recruited extension workers
in different sub-sectors of agriculture. Until mid-1991, four ministries were principally
involved in agriculture.
Each of these ministries had extension workers, distributed on the basis of
administrative levels (district, county and sub-county). These were responsible for advising
farmers in the disciplines of the agricultural sub-sectors of each Ministry. In addition, various
donor funded projects adopted the commodity approach and had parallel extension workers
employed specifically for a commodity. The resultant fragmentation of extension services into
various ministries and departments had adverse effects on extension services delivery. This
coupled with poor facilitation resulted into low extension contact with farmers and
consequently low production and productivity.
To address the above shortcomings, the government undertook the restructuring of the
agricultural sector to strengthen agricultural support services.
SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
In 1987, an action plan for the Agricultural Policy Agenda was developed as part of the
economic recovery programme. The Government of Uganda (GOU) and the International
Development Association (IDA) agreed to set up two technical working groups - 9a for
research and 9b for extension where strategies were developed for effective sustainable
research and extension services. The recommendations of the two working groups led to the
preparation of investment programmes for research and extension by the Task Force
established by the Agricultural Policy Committee (APC). This resulted in the creation of the
26



National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO) and the Unified Agricultural Extension
Service (UAES).
The Agricultural Extension Project (AEP) was conceived to support, strengthen and
expand the implementation of the Unified Extension Service started under the Headstart
Programme of Agricultural Research and Extension (HARE). The project which became
effective on 18t June 1993 was scheduled to end by June 36*, 1998 was extended to 31 "
December 1998. This extension was to allow continuation of support for on-going operations
and to prepare the follow-on project.
OBJECTIVES
The broad objectives of the project were to address the urgent needs of disease control;
improvements in yield and build capacity to deliver extension services as well as to
specifically support an effective extension service.
Specifically, AEP aimed at improving:
(a) Efficiency in the delivery of extension services in 16 districts;
(b) Training capacity and skills of extension agents and farmers;
(c)  Adoption of improved techniques by farmers; and
(d) Efficiency in management services of MAAIF in order to support the
delivery of extension and ensure its sustainability.
COMPONENTS
AEP had four components, namely:
- Strengthening of the delivery of extension services
* Improvements in training capacity and skills
- Strengthening of Management Systems in MAAIF
* Studies
DESIGN, ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
National Level
At national level, the project was fully integrated into the regular organizational
framework of MAAIF. The Permanent Secretary assisted by Director of Agricultural
Extension (DAE), Director Crop Resources and Director of Animal Resources were
responsible for the overall management of the project. However, the Director of Agricultural
Extension was responsible for the day today management of the project assisted by the
Commissioners, Zonal Extension Officers and Subject Matter Specialists (Headquarters) from
different sub-sectors.
27



District Level: The post of the District Extension Coordinator (DEC) was introduced
by MAAIF to coordinate extension activities at district level. He/she was assisted by a team of
SMSs.
County Level: Similarly, the County Extension Coordinator was made responsible for
coordination at county level.
Circle Level: A new operational area called circle was put in place. It is a geographical
operational area of the FEW covering between 1000 to 3000 farm families. This corresponds
to two to several parishes depending on population density, availability of staff and
geographical spread. Several modifications were made in the original design of the project,
which are printed in the text.
STRENGTHENING THE DELIVERY OF EXTENSION SERVICES
METHODOLOGY
The Unified Extension Approach is characterized by programme planning based on
farming systems involving farmers, extension workers and researchers. A front-line extension
worker is responsible for transfer of technology to groups of fanners in a manner that
encompasses a farming systems approach. The methodology focuses on a group approach to
transfer technology to farmers through demonstrations, group meetings, and on-farm trials. In
addition, field days are held to show the achievements of farmers to the community. Inter- and
intra-district study tours also formed an important educational means. Mass media are used to
disseminate educational messages as well as creating awareness of new developments to the
farming community and the general public. Bottom-up planning is emphasized through
systematic client consultation by the FEW and other extension staff at all levels.
EXTENSION ACTIVITIES
The extension methods used for transfer of technology and motivating farmers for
adoption include: visits, group identification/formation, training, result demonstration, method
demonstrations, group meetings, field days/study tours, radio and TV, and literature.
INTERVENTIONS TO STRENGTHEN EXTENSION DELIVERY
In order to strengthen the delivery of extension services, the following interventions
were introduced:
(i) Farmer-to-Farmer Seed and Stocking Material Multiplication;
(ii) The Village Level Participatory Approach (VLPA);
(iii) Information Dissemination Strategy;
(iv) Pilot Demonstrations; and
(v) Cost-Benefit Analysis of Enterprises.
28



PARTNERSHIP WITH OTHER INSTITUTIONS AND SERVICES
The MAAIF collaborated with various institutions and NGOs. The institutions included
Makerere University, NARO, Management Training and Advisory Centre (MTAC), National
Institute of Extension Management (MANAGE, India) and Agricultural and Rural
Development Foundation (ARDF, Philippines). The extension programme also collaborated
with NGOs such as CARE, World Vision, Uganda National Farmers Association (UNFA) and
SG 2000.
TRAINING COMPONENT
The training component was incorporated to build capacity among extension workers
and farmers. The following types of training were provided:
(a)  Orientation Courses,
(b)  Pre-seasonal Planning Workshops,
(c)  Monthly Training Programmes (MT),
(d)  Technical Workshops (TWs),
(e)  Inservice Training Courses,
(f)  Re-training of FEWS,
(g)  Management Training Programmes,
(h)  Farmers Training,
(i)  Long Term Training, and
(j) Study Tours, Visits, Workshops and Courses.
STRENGTHENING MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Under the management component six committees were established to strengthen the
management systems. They included the Policy Committee, Technical Committee, Technical
Advisory Committee, Procurement Committee, Finance Committee, and Fanner-Research-
Extension-Linkage Committee.
In order to strengthen the above committees, a Desk Officer was appointed to closely
work with the Director of Agricultural Extension. In addition, six zonal teams, eleven lead
persons as well as eight Subject Matter Specialists were put in place.
To build the local capacity, the following consultants were hired on long-term namely:
Extension Advisor, Extension Training Specialist, Procurement Specialist, Finance Officer
and Civil Works Engineer.
Besides the above Consultants a number of short-term consultants were recruited by the
project.
29



STUDIES
The Studies conducted to improve the implementation and management of AEP
included the following:
* Baseline Survey
* Farmers Follow-up Survey
* Extension Staff Survey
* Monitoring and Evaluation Surveys
* Mid-term Review
* Beneficiary Assessment of the Agricultural Extension Project
* Manpower Status, Training Needs, Training Plan and Personnel Specifications;
* Rationalising the Roles and Responsibilities of the Various Training Institutes,
Colleges and Centre under MAAIF and Development of their Curricula;
* Evaluation of monthly Training Programmes, and
* Design of a Follow-on Project.
PROCUREMENT
Procurement activities fell under three categories namely: Procurement of services,
Procurement of works, Procurement of goods.
The project met constraints in civil works and consequently it carried out some
rehabilitation of only Ikulwe DFI. Work at Kyembogo DFI did not commence.
With regards to goods: vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, office and field equipment were
procured.
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
The appraised project costs were estimated at US$ 17.75 million. The International
Development Association (IDA) and Government of Uganda (GOU) were to contribute US$
15.79 million and US$ 1.96 million respectively.
ACTUAL FINANCING
Out of the US$ 17.7 million by 30Q October 1998, AEP had spent US$ 16.87 million.
This gives an overall positive variance of US$ 0.83 million. Out of the total expenditure pf
US$ 16.87 million, GOU contributed US$ 1.83 million, which is approximately 93% of the
contribution stipulated in the DCA. The IDA contributed US$ 11.5 millions, which is
approximately 92% of what was stipulated. Besides, the project has streamlined the Financial
Management System by introducing Imprest System for the district financing, comparison of
accounts and training of financial staff.
30



DONOR AND GOU SUPPORT
Donor and government performance was cordial and effective throughout the period of
implementation of the project. There were frequent and regular visits by the IDA teams to
backstop the project operations. The Government of Uganda also provided promptly the
required counterpart funds; although there was a short fall in the counterpart funding during
1995 which to some extent affected the field activities.
Several suggestions are given in this document to improve further the donor and
government performance. In addition, the project also established good working relationships
with public agencies and NGOs especially, NARO, UNFA, SG 2000, MANAGE, CARE,
MTAC and Makerere University. This helped to promote AEP activities.
BENEFITS AND RESULTS
The benefits and results of the project revealed by the studies conducted by the Midland
Consulting Group, Management Training and Advisory Centre, Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit of MAAIF and reports are summarised below:
(a)  The project facilitated the development and organisation of an integrated
extension system, which is being implemented in 33 districts of Uganda.
This has resulted in improved extension service delivery as 75 per cent of
the farmers reported contacts with the extension staff.
(b)  The project significantly contributed to capacity building through human
resource development by enhancing skills and capabilities of 1000 staff and
500,000 farm families. Besides, 71 SMSs and lecturers were trained at post-
graduate level, 7 undergraduates and 510 FEWs were retrained. In addition,
58 inservice training programmes together with 49 study tours were
undertaken.
(c)  The diffusion of improved technologies in the districts under the project
helped to generate substantial increases in agricultural production, which
improved the nutrition and standard of living of number of rural families.
The extension services reached both directly and indirectly over 900,000
farm families.
(d)  Women farmers benefited from improved production and processing
technologies in addition to labour and energy saving devices. Thus, gender
concerns received special focus in the project.
(e)  The awareness of the recommended practices by 60 percent of crop farmers,
40 percent of livestock farmners and 100 percent of fish farmers was
attributed to AEP. Among the farmers who were aware, 75 percent of crop
farmers have adopted the recommendations.
(f)  The crop yields were reported to have increased by 20 to 50 percent and
milk yield rose from 1 to 2 litres per day in local cattle and 5 to 10 litres in
exotics.
31



RECOMMENDATIONS
v Unified Agricultural Extension Programme should be extended throughout the country by
introducing interventions like VLPA.
/ The various training programmes, demonstrations, field days, study tours and visits that
contributed a great deal to increased farmers awareness adoption of the recommended
technologies and increased production should continue in the follow-on project.
/ The World Bank Resident Office should be given adequate capacity and authority to
handle some financial and procurement matters as well as supervision problems.
/ Whenever a programme approach is adopted and the projects are integrated into the
organisational framework of the ministry, without having a coordination/implementation
unit, a proper appraisal should be made of the local management capacity. Besides, it is
necessary to clearly spell out the roles and responsibilities of each actor involved in its
management. This should also take care of delegation of authority commensurate with the
responsibilities to all concerned.
v For continuity, capacity building and sustainability, a team of counterpart staff rather than
one individual should be assigned to each TA as conditionality.
v It is recommended that the monitoring and evaluation be strengthened by establishing
management information systems.
The GOU should release adequate counterpart funds on time to ensure timely, sustained
and effective implementation of project activities.
v The project had Memoranda of Understanding with some stakeholders. It is recommended
that similar arrangements should be formalised with all other stakeholders, including
districts.
/ As a result of the collaboration with MTAC in providing management training
programmes, there were improvements in management. Further training programmes of
this nature should be organised.
V It is recommended that the current rigid procurement procedures, which are slow and
rather cumbersome resulting in failure to complete the civil works, be reviewed.
The imprest system of releasing funds to the districts on quarterly basis should continue, to
ensure a steady flow of funds, and enable the districts to implement planned programmes
on time.
Districts should make deliberate efforts to harmonise, rationalise and integrate NGO
activities and resources into the district extension plans and programmes.
The positions of ZEC and DEC need to be established and institutionalised at the Ministry
headquarters and in all districts, respectively.
32



/ The computerised accounting system, which was developed by AEP, should be used in the
follow-on project as well as the entire MAAIF.
CONCLUSION
The Agricultural Extension Project has successfully contributed toward institutional
building, capacity building, capacity utilization and above all in improving production and
the socio-economic status of the farmers. In order to maintain this gain and to expand the
activities, it is necessary to put in place a follow-on extension project immediately.
33



Annex 7b
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(CR. No. 2424-UG)
Economic Benefits
1.   Background
Key assumptions underlying AEP were that improvements in the delivery of extension
services, in the skills of extension workers and farmers, combined with strengthening of
management systems in MAAIF would result in an improvement in extension service efficiency
and increased farmer contact, increased adoption of improved technologies and practices by
farmers and improvements in productivity of crop, livestock and fish enterprises.
1.1 SAR Methodology
The AEP Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) 1992, attempted to quantify the benefits that would
be attributable to the AEP using a sector program approach. This involved estimating the
minimum impact from planned project activities on GDP to achieve an internal rate of return
(IRR) of 15 per cent. While noting that there are a range of other factors besides extension
influencing the adoption of new technologies and innovations, the SAR outlined a number of key
assumptions underlying the analysis. Among the underlying assumptions were the following:
I)   That project coverage of farm families would increase from approximately 30 per cent in
year 1 to 60 per cent by year 4, and that adoption rates would increase from approximately
40 to 55 per cent in the last year of the project. This would result in 33 per cent of farmers
in the project area, approximately 390,000 farmers adopting some improved practices by
year 4 of the project.
2)   Agricultural GDP was conservatively estimated at US$800 million for the 1.2 million
famnilies in the project area. This estimate was based on a project area of sixteen districts
with estimated share of 1991 agricultural GDP (monetary and non-monetary) at 60 per cent.
This would mean adopting farmers would account for approximately US$260 million of the
GDP.
3)   The analysis based on these assumptions (SAR Annexl0) is reproduced in Appendix 1,
Table 1. The analysis was based on adopting farmers only requiring a I per cent increase in
net output, approximately US$8 per family, to generate an IRR of 15 per cent on project
expenditure, including recurrent expenditure in the post implementation period. The
estimate is based on a twenty-year period.
1.2  Project Quantitative Studies
The SAR outlined a number of process and impact indicators to be monitored during
implementation. Monitoring actually carried out during implementation fell short of that which
was originally planned. Several studies of the project's performance and impact were carried out
34



during the course of implementation. Taken together, project monitoring and the performance
studies fell short of providing the information which would have been required to undertake the
quantitative assessments of the project's performance which were foreseen in the SAR.
The AEP studies which were undertaken did not use a standard methodology and this has
limited their applicability as bases for definitive assessment of project effectiveness or impact.
The key studies completed during the course of the project were the following: the Baseline
Survey; the Farmer Follow-up Surveys; the Extension Staff Survey; and the Beneficiary
Assessment. VVhile in some of the studies the survey data collection method employed resulted in
potential bias, the studies do make it possible to do some qualitative assessment. A systematic
comparison of the surveys and the beneficiary assessment findings on adoption rates was not
possible due to the use of different numbers of project impact points in the earlier survey studies
and aggregation of the findings.
1.3  Related studies
The limited reliability of statistical data collected and reported by the project has made it
important to supplement this data with that collected and reported in a number of other related
projects and studies. These are:
*   South West Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (SWRARP) Implementation
Completion Report (ICR), 1997. The agricultural extension activities under this project
were taken over by AEP;
*   Agricultural Research and Training Project (ARTP) II Project Appraisal Document,
Economic Assessment of Agricultural Research in Uganda, 1999;
*   World Bank Uganda Agricultural Sector Memorandum, 1998;
*   Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, Agricultural Policy Secretariat,
Report on Economics of Crops and Livestock Production 1997;
*   Uganda Bureau of Statistics.
2.   Assessment Methodology
2.1 Methodology
The analysis reported here is based on a two part approach:
1) Sector Program Approach. The AEP SAR used a sector program approach to assess the
minimum required incremental output in terms of growth in agricultural GDP for the proj ect to
generate an IRR of 15 per cent. This rate of return is treated as the break-even rate.
Based on the AEP survey findings and those in related studies on the level of farmer contact
and farmer adoption of technologies, the GDP productivity increase and the increased returns
required per farm household is estimated to achieve an IRR of 15 per cent.
Sensitivity analysis is used to assess the impact of changes in the key variables (extent of
farmer contact and level of farmer adoption) on the required productivity increase and resulting
incremental farm household return to maintain the IRR at this level.
2) Farm Household and Enterprise Level Productivity. The feasibility of achieving the
incremental production and increased farm household returns is assessed using indicative
35



enterprise budgets and farm household returns based on regional farming system models, which
incorporate the improved technologies and practices extended by AEP. These estimates are
indicative, as in the absence of quantitative data from the project, secondary data sources have
been used.
3.   Project Impact and Effectiveness
3.1  Extension System Delivery
The Government of Uganda AEP ICR (1998) indicated that farmer group meetings,
technical workshops and farmer retraining were less frequent than planned in the AEP design, and
that management and supervision of project field extension worker (FEW) activities occurred at a
lower level than planned.
The project surveys indicated that over the period of the project there was an increase in the
FEW/farmer group contact (refer Table 1), though the level of contact was less than planned. The
surveys did differ in their findings on the level of systematic contact, with sampling procedures in
some of the surveys resulting in the risk of an over-estimation bias. Factors which reduced the
FEW contact levels were: the reduction in FEW numbers; the lack of operating budgets; travelling
distance; late payments of allowances and a lower level of supervision than planned.
An independent survey undertaken for the govemment by the World Bank Economic
Development Institute and CIET International (A Report Based on the Findings of the Baseline
Service Delivery Survey,1 995) indicated lower levels of FEW contact with farm households, with
11 per cent of households having contact with FEWs. This ranged from 15 to 21 per cent in three
districts and was less than lO per cent in the other six surveyed districts. A number of the districts
were AEP districts and in these districts group visits were less likely 53 per cent versus 70 per
cent in non AEP districts, and households in AEP districts were less likely to be visited. The mean
for FEW farmer visits in districts with AEP was 10 per cent, and for those districts without AEP
14 per cent.
The Beneficiary Assessment Report (1997) indicated that FEWs met with farmer contact
groups on a less regular basis than planned. The Beneficiary Assessment results indicated that
while FEWs were expected to meet regularly with 16 farmer groups, on average they actually
only met with five of the 16 groups as regularly as had been planned. On average, they met with
another third of their assigned groups on only an occasional basis, and with the final third of their
assigned groups they scarcely if ever met during the period examined. Based on these report
findings and the project area having approximately 820 FEWs (MAAIF AEP District Profiles,
April 1998), it meant that if groups averaged 12 persons each, approximately 50,000 farm
households were in regular direct contact with the FEWs. This is approximately 3 percent of the
1.8 million farm households in the project area.
Estimates from a sample of District Extension Coordinators (outlined in the World Bank,
Agricultural Memorandum, 1998) indicated that each FEW met with 4 to 8 farmer groups
(averaging 10 - 15 households) on a regular basis. When this estimate is applied over the proj ect
area it meant that if all groups consisted of twelve farmers, on average around 40,000 to 80,000
households were in regular contact with FEWs. That is 2 to 4 percent of farm households in the
project area. This estimate is of a similar order of magnitude to that reported in the Beneficiary
Assessment.
36



Table 1: Level of Farmer Involvement in FEW-Farmer Contact Groups
Project Studies        No. of Households(HH) No. of Districts        Level of farmer
Surveyed                                      involvement in contact
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ ___ ___ ____ ___ _   _ ___ ___ ___ ___ __ g rou p
Baseline Survey (based  767                             16            verage II%
on 1992 year), (1994)                                               (range 2-31%)
Farmer Follow-up       205                               7           Approxiiately 43% of HH
Survey (1995)                                                        in contact group, (range
3-50%/o), only 33% of
groups met regularly.
Extension Staff Survey  Extension staff: FEWs,           8           FEWs contact about 33%
(1995)                 county & district extension                    f farmers in their target
coordinators, subject                         area (circle).
matter specialists,
headquarter staff
Beneficiary Assessment 507                               8            6%
(1997)                                                               (range 30-55%)
3.2 Farmer Contact Group
While the FEW were an important factor in farmer group formation, a number of other
factors influenced this process including access to other resources, existing group based cultural
practices and operating in districts where other development players had established farmer and
community groups. The surveys indicated that lateral transfer of extension information did occur
from contact farmer group members to non-contact farm members, with farmers being an
important source of information particularly for the simpler technologies. While the focus was
technical messages to transfer to farmers, part of this contact group linkage involved
demonstrations, trials and field days.
3.3 Technologies
Under AEP a range of simple and complex crop, livestock and aquaculture technologies and
improved practices were extended. These technologies and practices were referred to as impact
points, and the main ones extended under the project are outlined in Table 2.
37



Table 2: AEP Impact Points
Sub-Sector Enterprise   Production Practice
Crop                    Improved plant materials
Timely planting
Optimum plant population
Soil & water conservation
Weed control
Pruning
Pest/ disease control
Timely harvest
Storage
Livestock               mproved breeds
Housing
Pasturage
Zero Grazing
Waterng
Supplementary feeding
Pest/ disease control
Aquaculture             Pond siting
Pond construction
Pond fertilization
Pond stocking
Supplementary feeding
Harvest cropping
Sampling
3.4 Farmer Awareness
The project surveys (baseline, farmer follow-up, beneficiary assessment) differed in the
number of impact points surveyed, and concems have been raised as to the reliability and
accuracy of some data. While noting these constraints the beneficiary assessment report indicates
some interesting trends in the three sub-sectors.
Crops. The beneficiary assessment report indicated that AEP did not significantly affect the levels
of awareness compared to previous extension practices for the simple technology messages:
timely planting; pruning of bananas and coffee; timely harvest and storage impact points;
optimum planting populations; and soil and water conservation.
AEP did significantly influence the level of farmer awareness for improved plant material
and for pest and disease control. With crops the main source of information was farmers and
FEWs.
Livestock The beneficiary assessment report indicated that while AEP had a significant impact
on farmer awareness of livestock housing, watering and zero grazing, for the other livestock
impact points the level of awareness was not significantly different from previous extension
services. With livestock impact points the main sources of information being FEWs and farmers.
38



Aquaculture. The beneficiary assessment report indicated that AEP increased farmer awareness
in promoting this activity with farmers, indicating that FEWs were the main source of
information.
Based on the survey findings, the overall trend across all impact points is that AEP had an impact
on the levels of farmer awareness for more complex recommended crop and livestock production
practices, while for the more basic and low cost production recommendations it did not
significantly differ from that of previous extension services. Farmer to farmer dissemination was
indicated as an important method of extension information transfer.
3.5 Farmer Adoption
Overall adoption rates were higher for the simpler technologies than for the more complex
technologies. A statistical analysis based on a comparison between the different project surveys
was extremely constrained as the earlier studies included fewer impact points and the survey
findings were aggregated for annual crops.
Crops. Moderate levels of adoption (40 to 60 per cent) were undertaken for most production
practices, with the simple and common production practices (timely planting, weed control and
harvesting) averaging around 60 per cent (Beneficiary Assessment, 1997). The least adopted
production technologies (improved cultivars and seeds, pest and disease control and proper
storage) with adoption rates ranging from 23 to 45 per cent, were those involving use of
purchased inputs, seeds, chemicals and herbicides. Generally there were only small differences
between contract group and non-contract group farmers in terms of awareness and adoption of
crop recommendations with the exception of improved planting material and optimum plant
population.
Livestock. Generally greater than 50 per cent of farmers who were aware of recommended
production practices had adopted them. The exceptions were for improved animal breeds, zero
grazing, improved pasture for sheep, improved housing (pigs) and pest and disease control (pigs
and sheep). Generally there was no significant difference between contact and non-contact farmer
adoption except for improved breed production practices.
Aquaculture. Contact group farmers had higher levels of adoption of recommended practices.
Overall, AEP increased the level of adoption of more complex impact points (improved
planting material, animal breeds, pest and disease management in livestock and crops, and
aquaculture) though it didn't cause a significantly different level of adoption from that of previous
extension services. Constraints to livestock adoption included the non- availability of breeding
stock, lack of capital and inputs, access to markets and poor rural infrastructure.
Sources of Information. The survey indicates that for crops, farmers and FEWs are the primary
source of information, while for livestock it is FEWs and farmers. FEWs were more important for
the more complex technologies.
4.   Agriculture Sector Institutional Expenditure and Project Financial Cost
4.1 Agriculture Sector Funding
Institutional expenditure in the agriculture sector is funded from a range of sources: the core
government budget that is for recurrent cost expenditure, and from the capital budget; and from a
39



range of development partners undertaking specific projects, that are often implemented in
defined geographic areas. This range of funding sources makes accurate estimation of total
expenditure difficult. The govemment estimate outlined in the Republic of Uganda, Statement to
the Consultative Group Meeting (December 1998), indicated that for 1998/99 total govemment
and donor funded expenditure in the agriculture sector was estimated at 57 billion shillings, with
donors accounting for two thirds of the total. In the budget, extension accounted for 17.5 billion
(US$ 13.6 million) with donors funding 8.7 billion shillings of this amount, research 12.5 billion
shillings and production and marketing 4.1 billion shillings.
4.2 AEP Project Expenditure
AEP project expenditure by component differed markedly from that planned in the SAR, in
that the capital investment program was drastically reduced and there was a large transfer of
project funds to meet recurrent operating costs and allowances. The planned transfer of recurrent
cost to the govemment over the period of the project did not occur. Actual project capital and
recurrent costs are adjusted to constant 1991 prices, and it is these expenditures that are included
when estimating actual project retums (refer Appendix 1, Table 2). Recurrent costs post project
are maintained at 75 per cent of the average recurrent expenditure over the last three years
(1 995/96 to 1997/98) of the project.
4.3  Project Cost Effectiveness
No studies were undertaken to assess the cost effectiveness of extension delivery systems
used under the project. It is likely that altemative low cost delivery systems may have been more
cost effective for the delivery of simple low cost technologies, while the higher cost direct FEW
farmer group contact is more appropriate for more complex technologies. The issue is raised in
the Govemment Statement to the Consultative Group Meeting (December 1998), where estimates
are provided of the cost of government extension services in terms of contact farmers of US$60
per farmer, compared with other delivery systems used in the IDEA project of US$2 per farmer
per demonstration, and for the Sasakawa-Global 2000 program of US$15 per farmer per
demonstration site. While such comparisons are only indicative, they demonstrate that depending
on the crop and technology alternate dissemination systems are available and may be more cost
effective.
5.   Agricultural Production
5.1  National Agricultural Production
The agricultural GDPhas increased over the period of the project (1992-1998). The
agricultural sector GDP has increased in real terms by 26 per cent, with an average annual real
increase of 4 per cent over this period. The agricultural sector GDP figures are detailed in
Appendix 1, Table 3. At an aggregate level in 1998 crop enterprises accounted for approximately
74 per cent of agricultural GDP and livestock enterprises 17 per cent. Based on the agricultural
production data (refer Appendix 1, Tables 4 to 6) yields have remained relatively constant over
the project period with the production increases being from increases in the crop area.
Productivity has not increased, being affected by: lack of modern technology inputs; availability
and access to improved varieties; low fertilizer use and the increase in land use intensity resulting
in reductions in soil fertility.
The national agricultural statistical data is generally of poor quality, as the data collection
systems used are non uniform and often fragmentary, and based on estimates and outdated survey
40



ratios which use 1989 as the base. As greater than 50 per cent of the food sub-sector output is
consumed on-farm, estimating this output is difficult.
The agricultural production data is collected by the MAAIF, and the Department of
Statistics collects the price and market data. While shortfalls exist in the data, key agencies such
as the World Bank consider that the general trends in the GDP (outlined in Appendix 1, Table 3)
are reliable and consistent with what is occurring. The data shortfalls limit the value of dis-
aggregation of data to district and regional level, and limit the confidence placed on inter-year
variation.
6.   Project Impact on Agricultural Production
In assessing impact it is difficult to isolate AEP activities and impact from other factors
which influenced production and from complementary activities on other related projects. The
absence of planned AEP studies is a further constraint.
While the Beneficiary Assessment Report indicated that for farmers adopting the improved
practices there was a large increase in yield and productivity, no studies were undertaken during
AEP that would enable any definitive assessment of project economic benefits. The survey
findings indicated that while AEP increased awareness and adoption of more complex
technologies and practices (i.e. improved cultivars and seeds, optimum plant population,
improved breeds and aquaculture) that these higher levels of adoption were not significantly
different from previous practices. These outcomes are indicative as there are concerns regarding
the statistical rigor of the surveys.
Based on the project and other survey results the estimates on farm contact and adoption of
improved technologies and practices was markedly lower than planned in the SAR. As outlined in
section 3 farmer group contact was estimated at 2 to 4 per cent. However, allowing for a
multiplier effect it is assumed that 8% of farmers gained awareness of the messages disseminated
by the AEP extension staff. Adoption of technologies ranging from 25 to 45 per cent for the more
complex technologies requiring cash inputs. These levels of adoption are comparable with some
othe.r related projects, the SWRARP ICR (1998) used an adoption rate for improved technologies
of 20 per cent after eight years, while the ARTP II PAD (1999) indicated adoption rates for
improved technologies with a number of crops: bananas (25 per cent over 20 years); maize and
beans (33 per cent over 10 years); cassava (50 per cent over 10 years). These estimated level of
farmer group contact and rates of adoption are comparable with those used in other related studies
and summarized in Appendix 1, Table 7.
The analysis (detailed in Appendix 1, Table 2) indicates that for the AEP level of farmer
extension contact of 8 per cent and technology adoption rates of 40 per cent that a productivity
increase of 14.5 per cent is required to achieve an IRR of 15 per cent (refer Table 3). The
productivity increase equates to an increase of $US 96.76 per adopting farm household. The
feasibility of farm households achieving this level of increase was assessed using enterprise
budgets.
Sensitivity analysis undertaken to assess the impact of changes in the key parameters (extension
coverage ranging from 8 to 60 per cent, and for farmers adoption rates ranging from 25 to 55 per
cent) is outlined in Table 3, and indicates that for:
41



*   Extension coverage of 8 per cent, and with adoption rates of 25 to 40 per cent the per
farm household incremental return required for an IRR of 15 per cent ranges from
approximately US$167 to US$97;
*   Extension coverage at 20 per cent which would be considered optimistic based on the
survey findings, and with adoption rates of 25 to 40 per cent the per farm household
incremental return required for an IRR of 15 per cent ranges from approximately US$65
to US$38;
*   Extension coverage at 40 and 60 per cent is unlikely, and with the adoption rate of 25 to
40 per cent would require a considerably lower incremental return ranging from
approximately US$33 to US$14 per farm household;
*   Adoption rates of 55 per cent while included in the analysis are generally unlikely and
would be limited to very simple technologies.
Table 3: Productivity Improvement and Incremental GDP Required to Achieve
an IRR of 15 % (per adopting farm household in constant 1991 US$)
Adoption Rates (%)
Project                                         Surveys
SAR
Extension Cover
! __ ___ ___ _ _      (55)             40              25
SAR (60)               1.450/          2.05/          3.400/
(US$9.68       (US$13.68,      (US$22.69
40                  2.10N             30/              5/
(US$14.01      (US$20.20)       (US$33.37
20                  4.000/c         5.700/          9.700/
(US$26.69      (US$38.04,       (US$64.73
8                  10.500/c        14.500/           25%
(US$70.07      (US$96.76'     (US$166.84
In the absence of any project enterprise budgets the detailed cost of production budgets
presented in the Report on Economics of Crops and Livestock Production 1997 (Ministry of
Planning and Economic Development, Agricultural Policy Secretariat) were used. Models of the
farming systems at regional level are used to indicate the impact of adoption of improved
technologies at the household level. These regional farm models and the summarized enterprise
budgets are outlined in Appendix 1, Tables 8 to 13. The 1998 Report on Economics of Crops and
Livestock Production was not available, though it is planned for publication in 2000. While
accepting the constraints of using 1997 data, in that the input and output price relativtes may have
changed since 1997, the budgets provide an effective benchmark for feasibility assessment. The
incremental retums are also presented in 1991 constant prices in these Tables (refer Appendix 1,
Tables I 0to 13).
In the analysis undertaken the focus is on cropping enterprises as it accounts for
approximately three-quarters of the agricultural GDP. AEP did not concentrate on all crops. Four
42



key crops on which technologies and improved practices were extended are used in this
assessment: matoke; maize; cassava and beans are assessed to determine the financial impact at
the household level. With three of these crops improved varieties were released prior to and
during the project period: maize (Longe 1 released in 1991); cassava (mosaic resistant varieties
released 1992/93) and beans (K13 1 and K132 in 1994). The yield improvements used are those
detailed in the Report on Economics of Crops and Livestock Production, and are in line with other
related studies (refer Appendix 1, Table 7) though lower than the general 3 5 per cent estimate
used in the beneficiary assessment report.
Regional Farm Models. The regional farm models detailed in Appendix 1, Tables 10 to 13
indicate the incremental crop enterprise returns from adopting improved technologies and
management practices.
Eastern Region. With the eastern region farm model (Appendix 1, Table 10) the incremental
retums (based on the average area of each crop grown) range from less than US$1 for a number of
crops, to US$46 for a single stand coffee crop and to US$49 for a mixed stand of coffee/ matoke.
For the core food crops the incremental returns were approximately wheat $US 10, maize US$16,
rice US$8.60, beans US$3 and for cassava US$3. If a farmer undertook all four improved
technologies they would increase returns by approximately US$40.
Central Region. With the central region farm model (Appendix 1, Table 11) the incremental
returns (based on the average area of each crop grown) range from US$87 for coffee, matoke
US$6, and for mixed stand crops (coffee/matoke, vanillalcoffee) of US$72 and US$22
respectively, to the annual crop returns of maize US$24, cassava US$8 and beans US$3. If a
farmer undertook all these three annual crop and matoke improved technologies they would
increase returns by approximately US$41.
Northern Region. With the northern region farm model (Appendix 1, Table 12) the incremental
returns (based on the average area of each crop grown) were significantly lower compared with
the other regions. Returns ranging from approximately US$27 for coffee, and for mixed stand
crops (maize/beans, maize/groundnuts) of US$5 and US$4 respectively, to the annual crop retums
of maize US$11, sorghum and groundnut of US$4 each, cassava US$2, and finger millet of US$2.
If a farmer undertook all these five annual crop improved technologies they would increase
returns by approximately US$23.
Western Region. With the western region farm model (Appendix 1, Table 13) the incremental
retums (based on the average area of each crop grown) range from US$47 to US$55 for Arabic
and robust coffee, matoke US$3, and for mixed stand crops (coffee/matoke) of US$24, to the
annual crop returns of maize US$14, sorghum, wheat and cotton each of US$4, cassava US$3 and
beans US$8. If a farmer undertook all these six annual crop improved technologies they would
increase returns by approximately US$39.
The farm models indicate that with farm households adopting four to six of the annual crop
improved technologies and improved technologies for matoke, the incremental return per
household for the different regions ranged from US$23 to US$41. With these levels of
incremental returns a farmer would need to adopt a number of improved practices for perennial
crops as well to generate the required incremental return of US$167-US$97 for extension
coverage of 8 per cent and adoption rates of 25 and 40 per cent), or US$65 for extension coverage
of 20 per cent and an adoption rate of 25 per cent to result in the proj ect having an IRR of 15 per
cent.
43



It is highly unlikely that farn households would be able to undertake this number of
improved practices at one time, as adoption of these practices involves significantly higher
incremental input costs, and farnmers assess to credit is a major constraint to adoption. This is
indicated by the very low percentage of farmers using purchased inputs. On this basis the
expected incremental farm household retums would be inadequate to generate an IRR for the AEP
to break even.
7.   Other Benefits
The benefits from the improved human resource skills developed with the project training
and the strengthening of the local institutional capacity have not been assessed quantitatively. The
project training to FEWs, extension staff, subject matter specialists and headquarter MAAIF staff
in technical and management areas will have improved skills and potential productivity. The
training of FEWs, village groups and farmer contact groups at the local level has strengthened
local institutional capacities. Both the human resource skills and institutional capacity will
generate benefits when used in other economic and non-economic activities.
8.   Conclusion
Both the project statistical analysis on project impact points, and the sector program
analysis and assessment at the farm household level indicate that AEP did not have a significant
impact on improving productivity. While at the farm household level awareness and adoption of
improved technologies and practices did improve returns the incremental increase was inadequate
for the project to generate an IRR of 15 per cent which would result in the project breaking even.
Further, the national agricultural production statistics do not indicate any improvement in
productivity. While a number of other factors influence productivity and yield (i.e. climatic,
retums) and the aggregate totals may mask some intra-regional or project and non-project effects,
very limited if any quantitative evidence is available to indicate improved yields.
44



Annex 7c
UGANDA: Agricultural Extension Project - Intensive Learning ICR Mission -
Back-to-Office Report
A. Introduction
Following terms of reference dated 21 October 1999, I visited Washington from 1-4 November 1999 to
collect documentation relevant to preparation of the Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report (ILI)
for the World Bank fnanced Agricultural Extension Project (AEP) in Uganda. From 6-14 November, I
joined a different FAO/CP mission in Mozambique charged with initiating discussions on
preparation of a rural development strategy (see separate BTO by M. Wales, TCIR). From 16-26
November, I visited Uganda with Allan Kelly (economist, consultant) to gather more information
on the AEP and to meet representative stakeholders. The ELI is expected to focus especially on
lessons leamed with a view to informing the stakeholders involved in the formulation of future
govemment and donor support for agricultural extension in Uganda.
Preparation of the ILI will follow a five-stage process. Firstly, this mission presented to
govemment in an Aide Memoire its preliminary impressions based on material gathered and
interviews with key informants. In Entebbe and Kampala the mission met relevant staff from the
World Bank, the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF), and the
National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO), and representatives from donors and
NGOs active in the agricultural sector. A field trip included meetings with district level
agricultural staff, field extension workers (FEWs) and farmers. Following further analysis of the
information obtained a draft ILI will be prepared. Secondly, a systematic consultation with
farmers, community leaders, extension workers, NGOs, and district officers in three districts
representative of the major agro-ecological zones is planned for January 2000. Local consultants
will be contracted to carry out the systematic consultation. Thirdly, a stakeholder workshop is
planned for February/March 2000 to discuss the findings of the consultation exercise and the draft
ILI. Fourthly, the ILI will be revised taking into account the stakeholder consultation. Fifthly the
ILI will be reviewed by Bank staff from the relevant sector/thematic group in another region and
by OED, and then finalized.
Preparation of the AEP started in 1990. The Bank appraised the project in May 1992. An advance facility
(PPF) of US$ 500,000 was provided in July 1992 to expedite project start-up. The US$15.79
million credit was approved in September 1992 and became effective on June 18, 1993. MAAIF
was the implementing agency. The Mid-Term Review took place in October 1995. The credit was
closed on December 31, 1998 compared to the original closing date of June 30, 1998.
. Salmen (World Bank) arrives Kampala 13 December to start up the systematic consultation exercise. The local
team will be contracted through FAO/CP. At the same time, M. Muchena (FAO/IC) is initiating a similar process
as in input into the ICR for the first Agricultural Research and Training Project. As far as is advantageous the
two consultation exercises will be harmonized. Consideration will be given to holding the stakeholder workshop
for AEP during the joint donor pre-appraisal of the National Agricultural Advisory Services Program.
45



B. Assessment of Development Objective and Design
Objective. The broad objective of the project was to address the urgent needs for disease
control and yield improvements and to build capacity to deliver and support effective extension
services. To this end the project aimed to improve: a) efficiency in the delivery of extension
services in 16 districts; b) training capacity and skills of extension agents and farmers; c) adoption
of improved techniques by farmers; and d) efficiency in management services in MAAIF in order
to support the delivery of extension and ensure its sustainability.
The objective was clear and continues to be important to the country. Years of civil strife and economic
mismanagement had devastated the economy. Agriculture was the most important sector in terms of GDP,
employment, and export earnigs. From 1986, with the return of political stability, agriculture had begun
to recover, mainly through expansion of the area under cultivation. By the early 1 990s, however,
aggregate agricultural production was still slightly below that of 1970, while the rural population
had increased by two thirds; and rural incomes and productivity of land and labor had declined
below levels achieved in the late 1960s. To address the deterioration and fragmentation of public
agricultural research and extension services, the two ministries responsible for crops, livestock,
and fisheries were amalgamated in 1991 to form MAAIIF, and in 1992 the research programs were
merged to form NARO. The AEP and the Agricultural Research and Training Project (ARTP)
were intended to support MAAIF and NARO respectively, in the dissemination and development
of improved technologies aimed at increasing productivity and returns to agriculture. In this
respect, AEP and ARTP responded to government's agricultural sector priorities and its overall
objective of promoting broad-based economic growth. Similarly, both projects were consistent
with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy of supporting efforts to improve the climate for
private investment and production.
At the time the project was prepared, the Bank was strongly advocating in Uganda and elsewhere a
Unified Extension Service (UES) and the Training and Visit (T&V) system; that is a single
service and line of command to polyvalent FEWs provided with regular training and expected to
carry out programmed visits to groups of farmers in order to provide advice and demonstrations
on a wide range of crop, livestock and fisheries topics. In early 1992, MAAJF issued a directive
establishing a structure for the UES/T&V approach. With funding from the Bank financed
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC), the UES/T&V approach was piloted in 4 districts.
According to the AEP's appraisal report progress with the pilot was satisfactory and provided the
basis for supporting phased expansion of the UES/T&V approach to cover 16 out of the 38
districts in the country. However, the time between start up of the pilot and appraisal of the AEP
was insufficient for an objective assessment of the pilot.
Adoption of the UES and T&V was and continued to be a major design issue within the Bank, among
government technicians, and with other development partners. Those in favor of the UES argued
that it would operationalize a whole farmn approach and expand coverage of extension particularly
to poorer farmers. Critics argued that tuming specialists into generalists required more than a few
weeks of training, that the quality of the service would be reduced to the lowest common
denominator, that farmers wanted access to more not less specialist expertise. The advantages of
T&V were seen to be simplified management, training, supervision and monitoring. Critics of
T&V argued that the system was top-down, hierarchical, prescriptive, inflexible and unresponsive
to farmers' priorities, that the investment and recurrent costs was high and unsustainable, and that
the return on investment would be marginal at best. Most altematives to UES/T&V, though not
necessarily proven, put more emphasis on empowering communities and farmers to analyze and
find their own solutions with assistance from outside facilitators, and on exposing farmers to a
range of innovations. At the same time, there has been a growing trend towards funding and
46



delivering extension in a mix of public and private arrangements. These alternatives provide the
basis for the emerging consensus between govemments and their development partners, including
the Bank, on the way forward for extension. In this light, the fact that the design of the AEP
ignored criticisms of the UES/T&V approach and did not provide an adequate assessment of the
pilot or altematives can be seen as a major deficiency.
Components. The project objective was to be achieved through four broad components:
Strengthening the delivery of extension services (US$9.55 million) through provision of
transport, equipment, rehabilitation of facilities, and incremental operating costs;
Improvement in training capacity and skills (US$6. 10 million) through i) provision for
equipment, supplies, facilities and transport for regular in-service training of extension staff and
periodic farmer training at the District Farmer Institutes (DFIs), with the involvement of research
staff, ii) rehabilitation, curriculum development and upgrading of staff capabilities at Bukalsa
Agricultural College; and iii) demonstrations at the DFIs and farmer-managed trials in their own
fields;
Strengthening of management systems (US$1.81 million) through i) training in management
and team building for MAAIF staff at headquarters and in the project districts; ii) staff training
and consultancy services to improve financial management, procurement, and budgetary
procedures; iii) operational support for monitoring and evaluation; and iv) improved office
equipment and facilities; and
Studies (US$0.28 million) on i) the rationalization of the Training Institutes and Colleges of
MIAAIF; efficiency and impact of alternative technology transfer mechanisms; iii) a Mid-Term
Review and assessment; and iv) the design of a follow-on project.
In October 1994, the Credit Agreement was amended to expand project coverage to 20
districts and to include Arapai Agricultural College under the training component. In 1995,
responsibility for one of the districts was transferred to the Cotton Sub-Sector Development
Project.
The components were reasonably related to achieving the project objective and to improving the
management and implementation capacity of MAAIF at the central and lower levels. However, the
design was over-optimistic in expecting that constraints to implementation of prior projects in
Uganda such as inadequate and tardy counterpart funding, poor salaries, and weak management
and financial systems would be addressed by measures under other Bank projects (SAC, ASAC,
and EFMP). To minimize institutional and financial risks the project provided considerable
support for human resource development and the strengthening of management capacity and
processes, and for incremental recurrent costs. Nevertheless, the capacity of government to meet
even a relatively small counterpart contribution was over-estimated. To reduce complexity the
design focused on extension only, and rightly phased implementation thus allowing for
adjustments based on experience and resource availability. On the other hand, it could be argued
that the decision to finance research and extension through separate projects made development of
effective research-extension-farmer linkages more difficult. It was naively assumed in the
appraisal report that the adjustment operations (SAC and ASAC) would ensure that market prices,
lack of inputs and other factors would not constrain farmers' incentives to apply new technology.
Structural Adjustment Credit, Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit, Economic and Financial Management
Project
47



High transaction costs, in large part due to the poor condition of the road network, continue to
impede market linkages resulting in low prices for food crops and high cost of inputs at the farm
gate. Concurrently, lack of access to credit means that most farmers have been unable to finance
improvements dependent on purchasing seasonal inputs, veterinary supplies, or improved breeds
etc..
C. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
Outcome/Achievement of Objective
Overall project objectives were partially achieved. The extensive trining activities improved the
technical capacity and skills of MAAIF and district level agricultural extension staff, and of the farmers who
undertook training. This training combined with the proj ect provision of transport, operating budgets
and travel allowances for extension staff resulted in some strengthening of extension delivery
services and, with the collaboration of other projects and NGOs, may have contributed to some
adoption of technologies leading to improved disease control and yield improvements. Given the
preliminary stage of analysis and that a more systematic consultation exercise is planned, the
mission reserves judgement on the overall rating for the project outcome. However, the mission
considers that the proj ect will probably be rated either marginally satisfactory or unsatisfactory.
Achievement of Outputs
Strengthening the delivery of extension services. Implementation of this component was
marginally satisfactory. A unified extension service (UIES) was established in the project districts,
and FEWs were provided with some training to enable them to operate as generalists. However,
concerns were widely raised as to the effectiveness of the technology transfer when FEWs dealt
with topics outside their original expertise. As districts became responsible administratively and
financially for extension some districts reverted back to agricultural services based on technical
line departments and FEWs (crops, livestock, fisheries) rather than using a generalist FEW. While
operating budgets and allowances were available the FEWs did increase contact with farmers,
undertaking on-farm demonstrations, field days and seed multiplication activities, though numbers
of groups per FEW and the level of contact per group were significandy lower than planned. The
project made some use of mass media, but could have done much more especially for simple
messages. Available information indicates that 100,000 to 200,000 farmers had regular contact
with FEWs, about 8 to 16% of farmers in the project area. FEWs conveyed a range of
technologies and technical/management messages (improved crop management, improved seed,
pest and disease control, improved livestock husbandry and aquaculture) which a number of
Note the new Bank guidelines for ICRs define project outcome as the degree to which the project achieved its
relevant objective. Relevance refers to the extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with current
country and sectoral strategies. Achievement of the objective is judged by the standards prevailing at the time of
the ICR, not those at the time of the loan approval. The ICR assesses the project's outcome as one of the
following: a) Highly satisfactory - project achieved most of its objectives and has achieved or is likely to
achieve substantial development results, without major shortcomings; b) Satisfactory - project achieved most of
its objectives and has achieved or is expected to achieve satisfactory development results with only a few
shortcomings; c) Unsatisfactory - project failed to achieve its major relevant objectives, has not yielded and is
not expected to yield substantial development results, and has significant shortcomings; d) Highly unsatisfactory
- project failed to achieve any of its major relevant objectives and has not expected to yield worthwhile
development results.
48



farmers adopted. Collaboration with other projects and NGOs, particularly in the supply and
multiplication of planting material, contributed to adoption. Adopting farmers reported yield
increases, but over the period of the project national production data do not indicate any increase
in productivity. From 1995 the late provision of counterpart funds adversely impacted on project
activities, and the late and non-payment of staff allowances affected staff performance and levels
of activity. Improved efficiency and cost effectiveness could have been achieved if payment of the
staff allowances and salary support had been linked to performance indicators. In 1997/98, a
village level planning approach was piloted in 8 districts aimed at identifying priorities and action
plans. Reportedly, 1007 villages were covered. Introduction of this broad based approach within
the context of an agricultural extension project, which had only one year of implementation
remaining, resulted in unmet expectations.
Improvement in training capacity and skills. In general, implementation of this component
was marginally satisfactory. There was over-achievement of targets in terms of postgraduate
training, study tours and short term training, resulting in over-expenditure against the training
category. On the other hand, much of the training was theoretical and there was under-
achievement with FEW retraining and farmer training. No evaluation of training impact was
carried out. Public sector restructuring resulted in retrenchment of over 50% of the staff who
undertook postgraduate training under the project. Only two out of the six targeted District Farm
Institutes were rehabilitated, and rehabilitation of the Arapai and Bukalsa Agricultural Colleges
was not done: reasons include the higher counterpart contribution required for civil works and
delayed recruitment of a competent civil engineer to oversee the works. The curriculum of the
colleges was revised and adopted. The Bank questioned the appropriateness of the new curriculum
in that it offers four diplomas in various disciplines instead of one diploma for polyvalent
technicians.
Strengthening of management systems. Project management was less than satisfactory. In
project implementation allocation of resources was concentrated at the national rather than the
district/local level (in terms of the number of vehicles, over achievement of national level training
targets and under achievement of district/farmer targets, and significant increases in recurrent
expenditure), and this reduced project effectiveness and potential impact. While the project
provided for local recruitment of a financial officer and staff training, for most of the project
period financial procedures, accounting systems, and controls were inadequate. Besides poor
budget monitoring and control, asset management was almost non-existent, and control of
payments and advances was weak. Monitoring and evaluation systems were established at the
national and district level, though the high level of reported achievement and impact is an issue:
the Bank's supervision missions reported impressive levels of field activity, adoption and impact,
whereas other data sources and anecdotal evidence suggest the opposite. Planned construction of
some new offices and rehabilitation of some existing ones was not undertaken due to changes in
priorities and the higher levels of counterpart funding required.
Studies. Implementation of this component was unsatisfactory. The studies on the
rationalization of the training institutes and colleges of MAAIF, and on the efficiency and impact
The AEP appears to have contributed to the adoption of a range of technologies: perhaps the most widely
adopted would be cassava mosaic virus resistant planting material, and a higher yielding maize variety. Other
less widely adopted technologies would include fishpond development, improved beehives, zero grazing and
improved management of livestock. However, in most if not all cases otherprojects and NGOs either supported
the provision of the inputs and/or supported the FEWs with training and allowances. Therefore, it is impossible
to determine the extent to which adoption and benefits were attributable to the AEP. It could be argued that
adoption of these technologies could have been achieved without the AEP.
49



of alternative extension methodologies were not undertaken. As a result, opportunities were
missed to ensure more cost-effective use of public resources. While the Mid-Term Review and
design of a follow-on project were carried out, both exercises failed to anticipate the current
vision for support to extension which puts the sub-county level of government and farmers in the
driving seat and allows outsourcing and a plurality of service providers and methodologies.
Economic and Financial Analysis
The appraisal report undertook an economic analysis based on the incremental agricultural GDP
required for the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) to be 15%. Based on this incremental
GDP the incremental per household return was estimated using a farmer technology adoption rate
in project districts of 30%. In this ILI a similar methodology will be utilized to assess whether
project appraisal estimates were achieved. Further, it is planned to link the GDP changes over the
project period, to the household level, and assess whether the incremental returns required at the
household level would have been achieved with adoption of the project technologies. This
analysis will be dependent on the incremental return and rates of adoption of the technologies, and
sensitivity analysis will be undertaken. The planned systematic consultation will provide some
indicative verification of FEW contact and the adoption of technologies, and on improvement in
livelihoods.
D. Major Factors Affecting Impact and Outcome
Factors outside control of government which influenced implementation of project activities
included:
*   declining prices for food crops;
*   inadequate provision of input and output marketing services in rural areas by the private
sector;
*   little or no credit available for small farmers.
On the other hand, government and its development partners could have done
more to facilitate private sector provision of agriculture services and credit (see para.23).
Factors subject to government control which influenced implementation of project
activities included:
*   poor rural infrastructure which limited farmer access to input supplies and markets;
*   inadequate and delayed counterpart funding particularly affected civil works and
incremental operating expenses, which negatively affected performance and staff
morale;
*   staff salary supplements and allowances were not performance based;
*   deficient financial management;
*   weak project management;
*   centralized implementation and concentration of resources at the headquarters level
reduced project impact at the district and field levels;
*   insufficient involvement of district governments in project preparation and during
implementation resulted in limited project ownership and low level of commitment to
extension;
50



*   public sector restructuring and decentralization reduced the number of FEWs in project
areas and resulted in retrenchment of many staff who had benefited from training under
the project;
*   the positive bias in monitoring and evaluation reporting misled project management,
government, and the Bank; organizational restructuring at MAAIF, the abolition of the
Directorate of Agriculture Extension and the transfer of extension responsibility to
NARO in 1998 disrupted project implementation and financing; and
*   increased linkages with other extension service and technology providers (NGOs,
education institutions, research institutions, and local governments) contributed to
technology adoption.
Costs and financing. The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at US$17.75
million over 5 years. The Bank's commitment amounted to US$15.79 million for civil works,
vehicles and equipment, technical assistance, training, demonstrations and field trials, and
incremental recurrent costs. Government's commitment amounted to US$1.96 million.
During the project significant changes were made in expenditure under particular categories,
in part reflecting increases in the scale and scope of some activities, which occurred with the
addition of the four extra districts, increases in levels of training and operating expenses, and
changes in priorities in terms of civil works and other activities that required higher levels of
counterpart funding. The project credit agreement was modified to meet increased levels of
overall project financing, such that the Bank financed 95% overall. Significant transfers (over
US$2.2 million) were made from civil works and consultant services (US$0.35 million), and
used to fund incremental expenditure on training (additional US$1.5 million), field operations
(additional US$1.3 million) and non-field operations (additional US$1.2 million). As a result,
at project closure field and non-field operating costs accounted for 48% of total Bank costs,
and training 25%. Overall Bank disbursements amounted to 99.2% of target, with only
US$116,000 cancelled.
E. Sustainability
The project focused strongly on institutional capacity building through human resource
development and the strengthening of extension service delivery by providing financial
support for operating expenses and staff allowances. While the improved institutional
capacity in human resources is sustainable in the short term, the extension delivery system as
supported by the project is not, given the institutional reforms that have occurred, the nature
of the proposals for extension in the future (see para. 22) and existing and likely future levels
of local and national government support. The project supported extension delivery system is
relatively high cost, and requires large recurrent expenditures to maintain it. The project did
not assess alternative more cost-effective approaches, or establish performance-based systems
for payment of staff allowances that would have improved accountability. For the farmers
who adopted the technologies and improved their returns, they are likely to continue utilizing
these techniques.
When designed the project indicated that a ten to fifteen year period would be required
before the government would have the revenue base to absorb the recurrent costs of
agricultural extension. In the intervening period public sector reform and decentralization has
resulted in reduced staffing levels and the transfer of responsibility for extension to the
districts. One outcome of this transfer of administrative and financial responsibility to district
51



government during and after the project has been a change back from the UES to a technical
line department FEW approach, and generally further reductions in recurrent budget
allocation to extension. The district government providing support from the block grants with
additional support being provided through conditional grants from the national level for the
recruitment and operational costs of graduate specialists at the sub-county level. While
agriculture is a district priority there appears to be a lack of local government support to meet
the financial costs of the existing agricultural services.
During the project the budget shortfalls were covered through an increase in the level of
Bank support to operating expenses and allowances (about 90% of total). Since project
completion the extent of the financial constraint is very visible with district offices only
having very limited funds with extension activities severely curtailed. Funds to maintain and
upgrade the technical skill levels developed during the project are also likely to remain very
limited. At the national level the restructuring of the MAAIF and abolition of the Directorate
of Agricultural Extension has resulted in a large number of project trained staff moving
outside the ministry. The existing MAAIF budget is inadequate to sustain the level of
technical support provided to district offices during the project.
As no follow on credit for agricultural extension has yet been processed by the Bank,
the recently approved ARTP-II provides bridging finance for design of the Bank's follow-up
support including pilot activities to test modalities to improve technical support for the
decentralized extension services. Under the government's Modemization Plan for Agriculture,
a consensus is gradually emerging at the central level of government and among its
development partners on a vision for the future of the public sector's support to agricultural
extension. The basic principles underpinning this vision include, inter alia, further
decentralization of responsibilities for extension to the sub-county level using conditional
matching grants, outsourcing, cost-sharing between levels of government and clients, and
allowing for a plurality of service providers and methodologies. In line with these principles,
a Task Force has completed preparation of a strategy framework for extension and is busy
formulating proposals for a National Agricultural Advisory Services program for possible
joint financing by all donors interested in the sub-sector. Ajoint donor pre-appraisal is
planned for February 2000.
F. Lessons Learned
Market Linkages
Liberalizing input and output markets and public sector financing of technology
development and dissemination are insufficient conditions for rapid and widespread adoption
of technologies. Other interventions in support of market linkage development are required:
road network improvements; development of farmer organizations to help increase farmers'
bargaining power and reduce transaction costs for suppliers and buyers; development of
savings and credit associations and linkages with financing institutions; supporting rural
stockists/buying agents by facilitating links to wholesalers and access to credit and by
providing training in stock management and input use.
52



Project Management, Capacity Building and Supervision
Priority should be given to establishment of sound financial management, internal
auditing and progress monitoring systems at all levels, and to closely monitor and backstop
operation of the systems throughout the project period. This will be even more critical with
decentralized management systems.
Greater efforts are required to ensure that government and Bank reporting is more
objective and that it provides the informnation required to make adjustments necessary to
improve design, performance and cost-effectiveness. Potential conflict of interest in impact
assessments could be reduced by outsourcing to local organizations but with supervision and
critical review provided by independent external consultants. Similarly, consideration should
be given to involving OED or the QAG or other independent reviewers in the Bank's
supervision missions and reporting.
Provision for training should ensure a proper balance between theory and practical skills.
Systematic assessment of training needs, cost-effectiveness and impact is required.
Travel and overnight allowances should be paid in advance. Continued payment of
allowances and other staff incentives should be linked to verifiable performance.
Approach to Extension
Before expanding application of an extension methodology an assessment of cost-
effectiveness compared to other approaches should be carried out. Given the range and
diversity of client needs and requirements, different extension approaches and delivery
systems (public, private, NGO) which respond to these pluralistic requirements should be
considered including empowerment of farmer organizations and lower levels of government
to pull in specialists in accordance with their priorities. While the new vision for extension
allows for outsourcing and a plurality of service providers and methodologies some
framework will still be required to guide who and what is being contracted.
Providing specialized FEWs and higher level SMSs with an understanding of available
technologies beyond their core expertise helped reinforce team working and a whole farm
approach to problem resolution.
The various extension providers - government, farmer organizations, and NGOs -
tended to focus on the same farmers. However, collaboration and cost sharing contributed to
technology adoption. More could be done to encourage joint working and financing.
Supervision and assessment of impact of a large number of FEWs delivering a wide
variety of messages and supporting a large number of small on-farm demonstrations is costly
and difficult. Moreover, maintaining farmer group cohesion is difficult unless the FEW is
perceived as having something to offer either in knowledge or material terms. The quality of
dialogue and the multiplier effect may be higher with fewer, better-trained and well-supported
extensionists. Similarly, focusing on a smaller number of high impact, strategically located,
and verifiable demonstrations may be more cost effective.
53






r                 ~        ~        ~       ~~~~30  3t                 31                        31'          
UGANDA                                                      SUDAN                                                                          le
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
PROJECT
PROJECT DISTRICTS                     Koboko    '
I, ARA            OYO    _    1                                          J 
DISTRICTS COVERED                                                                                           D
UNDER THE PROJECT
DISTRICT FARM INSTITUTES                                                                                   Ka)[3 C(bo Adibor               3-KOnDO( 
PRIMARY BITUMEN ROADS
- - - - -   FPRIMARY GRAVEL ROADS                        NEON                                                                             MO
-4----I---I--  IRAILROADS                                                                             LIRA
o    3    DISTRICT CAPITALS             (                                      APAC
ZAIRE N                                 M-                                                 MOROTO N 
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                 MASINDi                                                                                   2-
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                               Am'd
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES,,'                MASNDKHOR
]<~~~  ,<   'rdko  8_                 /t M        1   >  H O~~~PCHO
HOWA4                                      m   ,U}9(7                         L)<.rISA 
C  /  >>   ns^         g    U W ER Of                     r &    0~~~~~~WER
Tho  ,ph.bo   ,prdb
< s /k~~~~~_ UBFNDE o   oli.i!w1aohd
KAa 4ROLE                                                                                                   x; Th.s _ ff3ANGA i of Ihe World B-ik p.T
MLNONO                          ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jdgoo on-d-fgo htlo 
ASES'  -
- _                                -              k IMBAIRA  M)                                               SUDAN
2 >  M         -    $   </8\<                          R~~~~~~~      ~     ~~ALANGALA                          =SML/
CA   IK    .W                                                                                                                        N A        ENYA_
2 \ Mutukolo u O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25  SO    7,t 100 KILOMMERS                                          BURUNDI   
ZAIRE                                                TANZANIA                            20      40    60 MILES                          TANZANIA   -    ,',
/  RWANDA                                  - 3fZAM;_ACt



