Docuinent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10904-U(
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 3, 1992
Agriculture and Environment
Operations Division
Eastern Mrica Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =   Uganda Shillings (USh)
US$1      =   USh 1,100 (June 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP    -       Agriculture Development Project
APC      -     Agriculture Policy Committee
ARTP   -       Agricultural Research and Training Project
ASAC   -       Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
BOU      -     Bank of Uganda
CIR      -     Country Implementation Review
CTB     -      Central Tender Board
DAO    -       District Agriculture Officer
DAP    -       District Action Plan
DFI     -      District Farm Institute
ERP     -      Econormic Recovery Program
EFMP   -       Economic & Financial Management Project
FAO      -     Food and Agricultural Organization
FEW      -     Field Extension Worker
GDP    -       Gross Domestic Product
GOU      -     Government of Uganda
HARE   -       Headstart Agricultural Research and Extension Program
IDA      -     International Development Association
IFAD    -      International Fund for Agricultural Development
ISNAR   -      International Service for National Agricultural Research
LCB      -     Local Competitive Bidding
MAAIF  -       Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
M&E    -       Monitoring and Evaluation
MFEP   -       Ministry of Finance and Economnic Planning
MIS      -     Management Information System
MOA    -       Ministry of Agriculture
MPS    -       Ministry of Public Service
MU      -      Makerere University
NAEP   -       National Agricultural Extension Plan
NARO   -       National Agricultural Research Organization
PAPSCA -       Project for Alleviation of Poverty & Social Costs of Adjustments
PER      -     Public Expenditure Review
PPF      -     Project Preparation Facility
RELC    -      Research Extension Linkage Committee
SAC     -      Structural Adjustment Credit
SMS      -     Subject Matter Spxialist
SOE     -      Statement of Expenditure
SWRARP  -    South West Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
T&V      -     Training and Visit
USAID   -      United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ........................................ i
L.BACKGROUND  ,.. .............                                               .. ........  0 ......@e**  1
A. Economic Setting .1
B. Major Development Issues .....................................   2
C. General Institutional Issues.                                                               2
D. Bank Assistance.                                                                            3
E. Lending Program and Economic and Sector Work.                                               4
F. Implemenitation Experience and Lessons Learnt ........................   6
G. Rationale for IDA involvement.                                                              7
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR   ...........................                           ...     ... . .    8
A. Salient Features.                                                                           8
B. Recent Performance  ......8.....................                                            8
C. Sectoral Objectives.                                                                        9
D. Growth Sources and Constraints .10
E. Public Expenditures and Sectoral Management .11
F. Sectoral Development Strategy .12
II. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RELATEDISSUES.............. 13
A. Background    ..13
B. Institutional Issues               ..14
C. Extension Issues, Experiences, and Strategy           ..15
D. Agricultural Research and Available Technology            ..18
E. Researc,i-Extension Linkages               ..19
F. Agricultural Training and Education             ..20
G. Role of Women in Agriculture                ..21
H. Agricultural Producer Organizations             ..22
I. Rural Marketing and Finance .......... ...........................  23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Uganda in May 1992. The mission consisted of
V. Mackrandilal (Sr. Economist/Task Manager), S. Bhattacharya (Sr. Procurement Specialist), U.K. Srivastava (Consultant,
Management and Institutional Specialist) and V. Jayaraman (Consultant, Financial Analyst). Contributions based on
previous missions were also made by V. Venkatesan (Sr. Extension Specialist) and E. Quisumbing (Research Specialist).
The peer reviewers were S. Bekure (Sr. Agricultural Economist) and J. Kampen (Sr. Agriculturist). Messrs. J. Shivakumar
and F.X. Colaco are the managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for this operation. Mmes.
Gunawardane, Naldo, Bekker, and Mudd provided assistance in computing and document processing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV. THE PROJECT  ........... *..............................   24
A. Project Origins and Objectives .24
B. Summary of P'roject Components .25
C. Detailed Features .26
D. Project Costs and Financing .28
E. Disbursement .34
F. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting .35
V. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS  ..............  36
A. Overall Arrangements .36
B. Extension Arrangements .36
C. Arrangements for Improvements in Training Capacity and Skills .38
D. Management Arrangements .39
E. Actionrs for Women and Young Farmers .40
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTI I            CATION AND RIUANS.. SK. . S........... .......... 42
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries .42
B. Economic Justification .42
C. Sustainability and Financial Implications for Government .43
D. Project Risks .44
E. Environmental Impact .44
VII. ASSUIRANCES AND RECOMMENDATION   .......                            .    ........ 44
A. Agreements and Assurances Obtained .44
B. Recommendation .46
List of Annexes
1.    (a) Cost Tables
(b) Estimated Disbursement Schedule
2.         Technical Assistance
3.     (a) Available Technology and Extension Potential
(b) Agro-Ecological Zones
4.     (a) Extension: Progressive Coverage of Districts and Counties
(b) Extension Training
(c) Extension Terms of Ref4rence
5.     (a) Management Structure and Systems of MAAIF
(b) Management Development Programs
(c) Management Terms of References
6.     (a) Financial and Accounting Systems
(b) Financial Officer- Terms of Reference
7.     (a) Procurement Schedule
(b) Procurement Specialist- Terms of Reference
(c) Civil Works Supervision Terms of Reference
8.     (a) Monitoring and Evaluation System
(b) Key Indicators
(c) Terms of Reference- Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
9.         Project Supervision and Implementation Schedule
10.       Economic Analysis
11.       Documents Available in Project File
Chart 1: The Unified Extension Service
Map No: IBRD 24007: Project Districts



REPUBLIC OF IJGANDA
UGANDA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (AEP)
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Government of Uganda (GOU)
Benericiaries:         Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF)
Amount:                SDR 11.0 million (US$ 15.79 million equivalent)
Project Objectives:    The broad objectives of the project are to address the urgent needs for disease
control and yield improvements and build capacity to deliver and support
effective extension services. The project would aim to improve in 16 selected
districts: (a) efficiency in the delivery of extension services; (b) skills of
extension agents and farmers; and (c) adoption of improved techniques by
farmers. The project would also improve efficiency in management services
in MAAIF to support the delivery of extension and ensure its sustainability.
The lessons and experiences of the project in implementation and impact would
provide the basis for the design of national extension services.
Project Description:    The project would provide assistance for: (a) Strengthening of the delivery
of extension services through the provision of transport, equipment,
rehabiiitation of facilities, and incremental operating costs; (b) Improvements
in training capacity and skills through (i) provision of equipment, supplies,
facilities and transport for regular in-service training of extension staff and
periodic farmer training at the District Farmer Institutes (DFIs), with the
involvement of research staff; (ii) rehabilitation, curriculum development and
upgrading of staff capabilities at Bukalasa Agricultural College and (iii)
demonstrations at the DFIs and farmer-managed trials in their own fields; (c)
Strengthening of management systems in MAAIF through (i) training in
management and team building for staff at headquarters and in the project
districts; (ii) staff training and consultancy services to improve financial
management, procurement and budgetary procedures; (iii) operational support
for monitoring and evaluation of extension activities; and (iv) improved office
facilities; and (d) Studies on (i) the rationalization of the training institutes and
colleges of MAAIF; (ii) the efficiency and impact of alternative technology
transfer mechanisms; (iii) a Mid-Term Review and assessment; and (iv) the
design of a follow-on project.
Project Benefits:      The improved delivery of extension services is expected to improve crop and
livestock husbandry practices and technology adoption among small farmers.
These improvements in turn are expected to lead to increased agricultural
production and exports, and higher incomes for smallholders.
Risks:                 The project is subject to institutional, financial and macroeconomic risks.
Safeguards against institutional and financial risks have been included in
project design.  Considerable resources are devoted to human resource
development and the strengthening of management capacity and processes.
Risks of delays and dilution of focus would be addressed through dated action
plans and through regular monitoring of tangible benchmarks of operational
improvements and effectiveness of research/extension linkages. Financial risks
would be minimized through the phased approach, local cost financing by IDA



v ii 
and efforts at rationalization of public expeniditures. The macroeconomic risks
are being addressed by the adjustment operations (SAC and ASAC) which are
aimed at ensuring that unfavorable market prices. lack of inputs and other
factors are not constraining farmers' incentives !o apply new technology.
Project Costs: aL
Component                   Local      Foreign     Total    % Foreign  % Total
(US$ million)           Exchange   Base Cost
A. Delivery of Extension    4.81        3.28        8.09        41         54
B. Extension Training       2.Ob        3.08        5.14        60         34
C. Management Systems       0.77       0.77         1.54        50         10
D. Studies                  0.13        0.11        0.24        45         2
TOTAL BASE COSTS            7.77        7.24        15.01       48        100
Physical Contingencies      0.83        0.80        1.63        49         11
Price Contingencies         0.63       0.48         1.11        43         7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    9.23             8.52       17.75        48        118
a/ Numbers niay not add due to rounding.
Flnancing Plan:
Local    Foreign   Taxes    Total
--;tS$ ~Million - 
IDA       7.27     F _       -         15.79
GOU       1.74     0.00      0.22        1.96
TOTAL    9.01      8.52      0.22      17.75
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year          93       94        95        96        97        98
US$ Million
Annual                  2.24      4.89      4.26      2.05     1.56      0.79
Cumulative              2.24      7.13     11.39      13.44    15.00    15.79
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Map No: IBRD 24007: Project Districts



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting
1.1      Uganda is well-endowed with natural and human resources, but its economy has been
devastated by nearly two decades of political instability, economic mismanagement, and internal
discord. In addition to the ample availability of fertile land and favorable climatic conditions for
agricultural growth, it had a relatively well-developed manufacturing sector and an effective transp
system. The agricultural sector accounts for about 60 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP),
provides over 95 percent of the country's export earnings, and is a major source of government taw
revenue.
1.2      The initial years after independence clearly demonstrated the economic potential of the
country; the average growth of GDP was close to 6 percent annually from 1963 to 1973, and price
were relatively stable. However, starting in 1970, political turmoil and economic mismanagement
radically changed the situation, and real GDP declined about 20 percent during the 1970s. In early
1981 the Government initiated a recovery program, with considerable assistance from donors,
including the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The recovery was short liv
and the renewed cycle of instability beginning in 1984 led to an escalation in expenditures,
acceleration in inflation, overvaluation of the exchange rate, and an absolute decline in GDP.
Eventually the economy came to a standstill in the wake of a military coup, followed by civil war.
1.3      The National Resistance Movement Government, which assumed power in January 198$
inherited an extremely poor infrastructure, a grossly under-utilized manutaci.ring sector, rampant
inflation and a huge external debt with a total debt service of more than half the 1984/85 export
earnings. With a gradual return to political normalcy, the Government initiated an Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) in 1987 with assistance from the IMF, IDA and other donors.
1.4      Continued support for the ERP is being provided under the Structural Adjustment Credi
(SAC), approved in November 1991. The SAC focusses on structural adjustment while continuing
emphasize stabilization. The two main areas of focus are: (a) the removal of remaining constraints
the private sector and the creation of an environment in which private initiative can flourish and
Uganda's comparative advantage can be realized; and (b) the improvement in the effectiveness of th
Government.
1.5      The performance of the economy under the ERP has been good. GDP has increased at
over 6 percent per annum, albeit from a low base, and per capita income has increased at 3.5 perce
per annum. Imports increased at the beginning of the period, with improved access to donor funde
foreign exchange, and then levelled off, constrained by the decline in the value of exports. As of
1986 the price of coffee, Uganda's main export, has dropped sharply on international markets. For
this reason, the balance of trade has gone deeply into deficit. Uganda's imports of goods and non
factor services in FY 91 were US$674 million, against exports of US$216 million.



-2-
B. Major Development Issues
1.6       Uganda faces major structural, institutional, and fir,ancial problems that must be addressed
during the next three years. First, underlying structural problems, principally in the financial and
coffee sectors, continue to impede stabilization. Second, although government expenditures have
increased somewhat in recent years, government revenues are still very low (16 percent of GDP). As
a result, resources for economic and social services remain inadequate. Thus, increased efforts to
strengthen revenue mobilization are a prio;iry. Third, while the ERP has succeeded in reducing
Inflation, more has to be done to reduce inflat.onary pressures, Fourth, the sharp decline in the
export prices of coffee during the past two years and the increase in petroleum prices following the
Gulf War highlighted once again Uganda's vulnerability to adverse external developments. Its export
base must be diversified. Fifth, a stepped-up program of institutional strengthening, including
parastatal and financial sector reforms, is required. Sixth, a major reform of the civil service is
urgently needed to achieve a streamlined, efficient, effective, and manageable service. These issues
are being addressed in the policy framework of Government's Economic Recovery Program for the
next three years as well as in IDA's assistance strategy. The policy dialogue in key areas, namely,
financial intermediation, public expenditures, civil service reform, export diversification, and
environmental management, is being deepened through economic and sector work. Implementation of
policy reforms in these and ancillary areas would be supported through structural and sectoral
adjustment lending. Government's continued efforts to rc)habilitate the country's infrastructure and
essential public services will be assisted through direct investment lending.
C. General Institutional Issues
1.7       Uganda's history of recent turmoil has left the country with very weak institutions. The
civil service, as the main employer in the formal sector, has grown in size beyond the needs of the
country and its ability to support it and is characterized by inefficiency, lack of financial discipline,
and obsolescence. This is due in part to a breakdown in discipline, very poor incentives, and a
history of politicization. Support institutions like the university and the training and research agencies
have deteriorated dramatically since their heyday after independence, and are neither self-reliant nor
financially viable. Many major banks and other financial institutions are close to insolvency. During
the last few years, donor agencies and IDA have assisted Government in undertaking a number of
measures to bring about urgent reforms in these institutions, but the efforts have fallen far short of a
comprehensive and sustained program of institutional reform. The institutional development strategies
have relied largely on short-term foreign expertise, in the form of technical assistance and ad hoc
overseas training, and while vital progress has been made in propping up key operating systems in
important agencies, this has been at the cost of perpetuating dependency. This dependency has been
reinforced by an uneven practice of salary subsidies by donors, provided to make up for the
unacceptably low levels of public sector remuneration.
1.8       The Government recognizes the weaknesses of Ugandan institutions and has demonstrated
its commitment to tackle the problems. A candid report of the Public Service Review and
Reorganization Commission provided the basis for the recently announced reduction in the number of
ministries and self accounting units, from 46 to 23 and continued reductions in the size of the civil
service. The Government has also established a secretariat to develop a national capacity building
plan to strengthen Ugandan self-reliance, and produce the managers, professionals and technical staff
required to improve both public and private sector performance. However, completion cf a
comprehensive and systematic institutional reform program will be a complex and long-term process.



-3 -
Action 5 being initiated with IDA support (paras. 1.17 and 1.18) with the key agencies that carry
greatest responsibility for economic and financial management and development planning, and which
in a strergthened condition can le" the larger civil service reform program. Strengthening these core
agencies the recentvy amalgarrated Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (M_FEP), the
Ministry of Public S vice (MPS), and the Bank of Uganda (BOU), is also critical to the achievement
of the policy goals of the ERP, including the SAC, and to the implementation of sectoral policy and
investment operations. In the meanwhile, interim measures such as contractual appointment and field
and travelling allowances are necessary in order to implement sectoral projects. The terms and
conditions of these contractual arrangements and the levels of allowances have been set by
Government, in consultation with the donors.
D. Bank Assistance
1.9      The Bank will continue to play a leading role in assisting the Government to design and
implement the ERP to move the economy towards sustainable long-term growth, and to mobilize the
required financial resources to support the Government's development program. The Bank undertakes
this role by backing up policy dialogue with economic and sector work, designing a lending program
that combines adjustment and investment lending in a balanced manner, and improving aid
coordination.
1.10     The overall crjective of the Bank's assistance strategy for Uganda is to shift the emphasis
from short-term objectives of security, stability and rehabilitation to the achievement of an economic
environment conducive to poverty reduction through the promotion of long-term sustainable growth
and improved basic living conditions. The overall approach will be to strengthen essential
government institutions, policies, and functions in a manner that will create a favorable climate for a
private sector response in both agriculture and industry and improve the delivery of essential social
services.
1.11     The principal elements of the Bank's overall country strategy will be to support efforts to:
(a)   maintain macroeconomic stability through improved revenue collection, the
establishment of a unified, market-determined exchange rate system, enhanced
monetary restraint, and increased resources for key economic and social sectors
through a reallocation of budget expenditures;
(b)   improve the climate for private investment and production through deregulation,
privatization of public enterprises, strengthening ef the financial sector,
rehabilitation and expansion of basic infrastructure, and improvement of essential
support services, such as agricultural research and extension;
(c)   enhance the country's human resource base by strengthening the education system
and basic health services;
(d)   develop and implement programs to arrest the environmental degradation that is
occurring, with special efforts to reverse the depletion of the country's rain forests,
to increase the intensity of cultivation on existing farmlands (with priority over
expansion of area cultivated) and to slow the rapid rate of population growth; and



4 -
(e)   improve external aid mobilization and coordination.
E. Lending Program and Economic and Sector Work
1.12     The cumulaive total of Bank Group lending to Uganda to date stands at US$1.68 billion.
Of this amount, six IDA credits, five supplements and two Africa Facility Credits totalling US$676.1
million have been in the form of quick-disbursing assistance, including an Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit (ASAC) in FY91. The current portfolio consists of 27 projects totalling US$1.16
billion, of which six projects totalling US$228 million are *n the agricultural sector. Through a
technical assistance credit (FY89), IDA has strengthened the administrative and institutional capacity
of the key ministries responsible for implementing the recovery program. Other credits have assisted
in the rehabilitation of Uganda's essential infrastructure, while others have improved productive
capacity and bolstered basic social services. The reccitly approved SAC (FY92) continues qi'ick-
disbursing support to the Recovery Program while focussing on removal of constraints on the private
sector and improving the efficiency of Government.
1.13     Over the next three years, the Bank's economic and sector work program and its lending
operations will be used to implement the strategy articulated above. The lending operations will build
on a foundation of knowledge that has been established y our economic and sector work over the
past few years. The sector work prepared during that period has covered the industr:al and financial
sectors, transport, the private sector, the agricultural sector and key export-oriented crops. The
macroec.,nomic measures needed for laying the basis for sustainable long-term development have been
identified in a similar manner, with particular attention to a study of public expenditure, which has
been identified as an area of maximum priority, given the extreme resou.ce constraint under which
Uganda will operate for years to come. A second Public Expenditure Review (PEk), was carried out
in FY92, aimed at improving public expenditure management. The Bank recently completed a paper
setting out an export diversification strategy for Uganda. 1/ Pending the overall restructuring of the
financial sector, which will be supported by a planned FY93 financial sector adjustment operation, the
Enterprise Development Project (EDP), FY92, provides for pre-shipment export financing as part of a
package of initiatives towards the export diversification objective. Measures needed to support
continued growth in agriculture have been identified in the recent agriculture sector memorandum 2/
Building on the agriculture sector study, an investment operation in FY95 will support continued
liberalization and restructuring of production, processing and export marketing for cotton. The
proposed project, AEP, will help improve extension support to agriculture. It will be followed
shortly by the recently appraised Agricultural Research and Training Project. Building on transport
sector work, a transport sector rehabilitation project will help improve transport capacity and
efficiency. An Export Development Project in FY95 will help create an enabling environment for
non-traditional exports through incentive policies and financing for production and marketing.
1.14     The Bank's activities in the human resource field would aim at improving access to basic
social services. Education V will focus on basic education and Health II will continue efforts to
strengthen basic health services. Education V is based on several sub-sectoral studies which have
1/       The World Bank, UGANDA: Export Diversification Strategy, Eastern Africa Department, July 3, 1991.
2I        The World Bank, UGANDA: Agriculture Sector Memorandum, Report No.
10715-UG June 8, 1992.



-5 -
influenced the development of the Ministry of Education's Five-Year Investment Program (1992-97).
Both operations will be linked to the human resources study started in FY92. A women In
development issues paper has identified key aspects of the status of women which need priority
attention, and will provide the basis for their integration into other aspects of the Bank's human
resources and agriculture work programs. 3/ An AIDS project in FY93 will help strengthen the
capacity of the Government to deal with the multiple economic and social aspects of the impact of the
disease; it will build on recently completed sector work. 4/ A small-towns water supply project,
also scheduled for FY93, will aim at an improvement in overall access to safe water in the country.
1.15      With regard to poverty allevton, the Bank's assistance strategy has the following four
elements. First, the above lending program in promoting growth and diversification, will offer
opportunities for productive use of labor, including that available within the poorer groups of society.
The broad participation of smallholder farmers in the production of both food and export crops means
that the benefits of agricultural growth are distributed to the rural poor. Second, through the dialogue
on the public expenditure program the Bank will support increased expenditure allocations for basic
social services in the health and education sectors. Third, to enable public institutions to effectively
expand the delivery of such services, the Bank, through policy dialogue and lending, will support the
strengthening of social sector ministries. Finally, the Bank is supporting the Government's special
program for the alleviation of poverty and social cost of adjustment. A program for the alleviation of
poverty and the social costs of adjustment (PAPSCA) was designed to provide some support to the
poorest in Uganda society, and also to mitigate the adverse effects of adjustment on the poor. It was
put into effect in 1990, and will continue to be under implementation for the next several years.
Poverty and growth issues will be the focus of the forthcoming country economic memorandum
(FY93).
1.16      While the pressure on the environment is not as high in Uganda as in other Sub-Saharan
countries, it is increasing and needs to be addressed to sustain economic growth. The Bank supports
the preparation of the Government's Environmental Action Plan, including the strengthening of public
institutions involved in environmental management and monitoring. As a first step, the Bank will
provide technical assistance to help the Government establish an appropriate institutional and legal
framework for environmental protection and to develop cost-effective information systems to meet
priority needs of resource users, planners, and decision makers. The Bank also supports the
development of research capacity in environmental policy at Makerere University in Kampala.
1.17      Institutional weaknesses limit the Government's ability to implement the policy agenda and
impede project implementation. Issues of capacity building and institutional reform therefore figure
prominently in the dialogue and planned lending operations. The Bank's strategy is to address central
policy measures in the context of structural adjustment lending. Complementary assistance to
improve the government's capacity for economic and financial management and implementation of
reforms at the sectoral level will be provided through technical assistance as part of freestanding
operations or attached to individual sector operations. Also, a major study is being carried out to
guide the development of an action plan to remove constraints within the civil service to the effective
The World Bank, UGANDA: Women in Development: Current Issues and Agenda for Further Research,
Population and Human Resources Division, Eastern Africa Department, June 28, 1991.
4/        The World Bank, UGANDA: The Economic Impact of AIDS, Population and Human Resources
Division, Eastern Africa Department, June 28, 1991.



- 6 -
use of available talent, prepare a medium and long term training program to address key skill gaps,
and elaborate a strategy and framework for future Bank initiatives in capacity building.
1.18     The recenly approved Economic and Financial Mvanagement Project (EFMP) addresses
problems in the core agencies involved in economic and financial management and which are expected
to play key roles in the overall public service reform programs (para. 1.8). Significant resources will
be allocated to the building of capacity in the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Planning and
Economic Planning, and the Bank of Uganda to strengthen their effectiveness in the formulation and
implementation of economic policies for development. Building on sector work started in FY92, an
institutional development project in FY94 will address broader issues of capacity building, including
training in such areas as economics, accounting and auditing, and continuation of civil service reform.
Aid Coordination
1.19     An important part of the Bank's activities over the next three years will be to help
strengthen and coordinatc donor support to Uganda's reform efforts. Through the framework of the
Special Program of Assistance (SPA) and through the Consultative Group (CG) process (with CGs
planned every 12 to 18 months). The capacity of the Resident Mission has been expanded to increase
contacts with the donors and to assist the Government with implementation issues.
F. Implementation Experience and Lessons Learnt
1.20     Implementation of IDA-financed projects, which had slowed down during the civil
disturbances in 1985 and 1986, has shown a steady improvement with the return of peace and stability
to much of the country. Disbursements rose to US$£7.7 million in FY86, declined slightly to
US$63.3 million in FY87, and then increased sharply to US$107.1 million in FY88, reflecting the
more rapid disbursements under the first Economic Recovery Credit (ERC I). Disbursements in
FY89 were US$99.9 million, rising to US$164.9 million in FY90 and US$169.0 million in FY91. In
FY92 disbursements were US$122.30 million. The lending program for Uganda increased
dramatically from two operations in FY87 to five in FY88, seven in FY89, six in FY90, and five in
FY91, including two African Facility Credits and three supplements to ERC I, and one supplement to
ERC II. The FY92 program included four operations, of which, one was a Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC). Five operations are proposed in the FY93 program including one financial sector
adjustment credit.
1.21     Implementation experience with the policy reform programs has been generally
satisfactory. GOU has undertaken a series of wide ranging reforms. Government involvement in the
marketing of domestic and export crops has been reduced, pricing mechanisms in internal markets as
well as in the foreign exchange market have been liberalized, incentives have been improved for
export expansion and mobilization of domestic savings, and fiscal controls have been tightened.
Government has also demonstrated a strong commitment to dealing with institutional issues, the
number of ministries and self-accounting units have been reduced from 46 to 23 and staffing
structures are being streamlined (para. 1.8). Issues of performance incentives and conditions of
employment are being studied. A recent directive was issued aimed at harmonizing performance
incentives in externally funded projects across ministries as an interim measure until agreement is
reached on the rev'amping of the entire incentive structure.



1.22     Implementation experience in agricultural projects has been mixed and some useful lessons
have been learnt and applied in the design of this project. The major constraints on project
implementation have been inadequate and tardy counterpart funding, poor salaries, and weak
management and financial systems. These issues are being addressed at the macro, sectoral, and
project levels. Regular Public Expenditure Re,;,ews and strengthening of revenue collection capacity
are being supported under SAC. A general Public Sector Reform Program is underway, staffing
structures are being streamlined and incentive structures are being developed with support under SAC
and EFMP.
1.23     The issue of counterpart funding was examined in greater depth by a special Bank
implementation review mission in January 1991. It was concluded that the problems were caused by
a combination of: (a) excessive control and delay at the central level; and (b) inadequate procurement
planning and poor budgeting within beneficiary agencies, most of which are now in the amalgamated
MAAIF. The design of this project therefore includes specific actions to strengthen financial and
other management systems of MAAIF. The budgetary process and linkages with the Ministry of
Finance and Planning were reviewed at the Country Implementation Review in May 1992 and
agreement was reached on measures for the timely release of funds and better planning of the
financial requirements of projects. Agreement was also reached on the streamlining of procurement
procedures between the Central Tender Board and the sector ministries.
1.24     It has also been found that the agricultural projects have tended to be too complex,
involving several agencies and thereby creating implementation and coordination bottlenecks. These
lessons are reflected in the focus of the project on one main activity, and its phased implementation.
Activities were started on a pilot scale in four districts (para. 3.19) and will now be expanded to 16
districts (out of a total of 38) under the project. Coverage within the selected districts would also be
phased. This phased approach would gradually build the foundation (both technical and institutional)
for a full-scale national project. Reviews of extension projects in Africa have highlighted a number
of implementation issues, including a preoccupation with staffing arrangements, procurement
procedures and financial reporting to the detriment of measures of organizational improvements and
impact. Project design therefore includes the identification and monitoring of tangible benchmarks of
improvements in management and delivery of extension, research/extension linkages, and impact at
farm level.
G. Rationale for IlDA Involvement
1.25     IDA has supported GOU's economic recovery program and, under ASAC, is assisting in
the deepening and broadening of the agricultural sector reform program. There is also a need for
smaller, more focussed investment projects to restore the effectiveness of key agricultural support
services. Further support is necessary to strengthen sectoral management, refurbish the researzh and
extension services, and accelerate and rationalize manpower training. IDA's direct involvement in
this project is essential in order to: (a) encourage increased focus on efficiency and impact in the
restructuring of extension; (b) promote strong linkages between research and extension; (c) transfer
experience of implementation, management, and sustainability of extension services, gained from
projects in neighboring countries and elsewhere; and (d) coordinate with planned IDA involvement in
the other key supporting services. The project would build on the experience of previous and current
donor support to agricultural research and extension and complement other ongoing and proposed
IDA/IFAD operations.



-
1[. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Salient Features
2.1      Agriculture dominates Uganda's economy. It accounts for 60 percent of the GDP, over
95 percent of export earnings, 80 percent of employment, and 40 percent of government revenues.
Its contribution to the economy is even larger if one considers that agriculture is the economic base
for much of the manufacturing and service industries. The country is endowed with some of the best
agricultural land in Sub-Saharan Africa. It has a benign climate with good rainfall and low
temperature variability. After lakes, swamps and forest reserves are excluded, more than 75 percent
of the country-18 million hectares--is available for cultivation or pasture. Only 4.6 million ha (about
30 percent) of the estimated total arable land area of 17 million ha is cultivated, predominantly by
smallholders and with prominent participation by women with an average cultivated area per family of
1.3 ha.
2.2       The "low-resource" agricultural system uses labor as the principal input, involves
relatively low cash costs and productivity per unit of labor and land, and produces a limited marketed
surplus (30 percent of food crop production is marketed). Farmers reduce risks by diversifying their
crops and integrating farming with livestock keeping. Food crops dominate agricultural production in
terms of contribution to GDP as well as land under cultivation. Coffee, by far the most important
cash crop, accounted for over 95 percent of all export earnings in 1989, but only 80 percent in 1990.
Uganda's reliance on this single crop for export earnings is more pronounced today than it was 15 to
20 years ago. The economy's extreme vulnerability to external shocks was amply demonstrated in
1989 when the International Coffee Agreement collapsed, prices plummeted, and Uganda's export
revenues dropped by US$100 million from programmed levels. Consequently, the Government
attaches high priority to diversification of the agricultural export base.
2.3      The agricultural sector under the ERP is recovering from the devastation of two decades
of political instability and economic mismanagement. Production levels have generally returned to
1965 to 1970 levels but in the meanwhile the population has increased by more than two-thirds. As a
result output per capita is now considerably lower than in the late 1960s. Further growth in
production depends on a policy environment that is conducive to private sector initiatives and is
supported by adequate infrastructure. Sound agricultural support services also are important. While
the agricultural sector remains the main engine of growth for the economy, its performance,
particularly that of the coffee subsector, directly affects flnancial stabilization. Developments over the
past two years have demonstrated that the performance of the domestic coffee industry has major
implications for monetary and fiscal objectives through the demand for crop finance and generation of
foreign exchange and export duty revenue. Hence, the Government in September 1989 began
implementing coffee subsector policies designed to safeguard the objectives of the stabilization
program. These policies have been expanded into a major reform program for the coffee subsector
with support under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC, Cr. 2190-UG) which became
effective in January 1991.



- 9 -
B. Recent Performance
2.4       Over the period 1981 to 1989 the agricultural sector (including crops, livestock, forestry,
and fishing) contributed on average 63 percent of GDP at factor costs. In 1990, food crops accounted
for 74 percent of agricultural GDP; livestock products, 16 percent; forestry and fishing, 6 percent;
and cash crops, 4 percent. During the same period, growth in agriculture GDP averaged 2.8 percent
per annum, with the rate of growth rising to an average of 5.4 percent per year over the period 1986
to 1989. While real output of cash crops showed marginal growth over the past decade, that of food
crops has grown at an average annual rate of 3.3 percent since 1981 and by 5.9 percent per annum
(over 10 percent for the marketed surplus) since 1986. The growth registered over the past four
years comes primarily from the improved security situation and an improved transport system. It also
reflects improved farmgate prices and better availability of agricultural inputs, brought about by the
liberalized trade and foreign exchange allocation regimes and increased donor-funded import support.
2.5       The recovery of food crop production since 1986 represents an expansion in the area
cultivated rather than increased yields. It was facilitated by the rural population's rehabilitation and
cultivation of abandoned or new lands; improved security and economic opportunities enabling a more
dynamic labor market; restoratiorn of rural marketing services; and the removal of obstacles to trade
in food crops thrc'tgh the simplification of licensing regulations and the opening up of export trade to
the private sector. Also, distortions in the producer incentive structure have drawn labor from cash
crops into food crop producticn where output prices are freely determined by markets. The livestock
subsector had been seriously affected by looting and deteriorating disease control but since 1986 a
marked growth in dairy production has contributed to the recovery of the sector.
2.6       Cash crops have been adversely affected by low farmgate prices, only sugar and tobacco
production grew significantly in the past four years. The reactivation of the once flourishing cotton
industry in Uganda has been hampered by the late return of security to the north, lack of producer
incentives due to late payments for seed cotton, inadequate seed supply and distribution systems, and
an inefficient and financially weak cooperative sector which controls the ginning industry and
suppresses primary production. Under these circumstances, the Government's decision to liberalize
internal marketing of lint for selected cooperatives has had little impact. Production of tea has
increased since Government introduced trade incentives through foreign exchange retention privileges
for exporters in the latter half of the 1980s.
2.7       These differentials in subsectoral growth reflected a bias in the incentive structure. The
bias was colled by distortions in export crop prices introduced through the Government controlled
pricing system and the overvalued exchange rate. The distorting effect of the overvalued exchange
rate on the prices for cotton and tea was removed in March 1989, when exporters of these
commodities were no longer required to surrender their export receipts at the official exchange rate.
Coffee remained heavily taxed until 1991 when GOU substantially modified the export tax and pricing
regime, and as of March 1992 coffee exporters also receive the market rate of exchange. Cotton
expo,ts however remain under monopoly control of the Lint Marketing Board and cotton ginning
under monopoly control by the cooperatives. Further reforms in coffee and cotton policies are being
pursued under the ASAC.



- 10 -
C. Sectoral Objectives
2.8       The Government's goals are to diversify agricultural production, processing, and the
export base, while achieving food self-sufficiency and improving the well-being of the rural
population. Increased resource productivity is a primary objective. Future production increases will
come both from increased yields and continued expansion of area cultivated as they have in the past.
Export diversification is required to reduce the vulnerability of the economy to a volatile international
coffee market. While nontraditional exports gradually develop, the coffee subsector needs to perform
strongly and in a manner that supports the stabilization objective. The attainment of these objectives
is constrained by inadequate producer incentives, inefficient financial and marketing systems and
institutions, a poor infrastructure, weak agricultural support services, inefficient use of public
resources in the agricultural sector, and a weak agricultural sector planning capability. Therefore,
Government's development strategy is to establish an efficient incentive and regulatory environment;
to strengthen agricultural support services; to improve the infrastructure supporting transport,
processing, and marketing; to pursue coffee subsector policies that help keep the economy on the
stabilization track; and to improve the efficiency of the public expenditure program and sectoral
planning.
D. Growth Sources and Constraints
2.9       While seeking to diversify the economy, the Government is looking to the agricultural
sector as the main source of growth. Such growth is required to boost foreign exchange earnings and
to meet increasing domestic consumption, as population and incomes rise. With improved production
technologies and current long-term projections for crop prices, Uganda's comparative advantage
remains with the traditional export crops - coffee, cotton and tea - and in new activities such as
sesame, hides and skins, spices and other horticulture. Of the food crops presently produced, some
are regionally competitive. International competitiveness, however, is limited by high transport and
handling costs resulting from Uganda's landlocked position.
2.10      In the short to medium term, prospects for recapturing of lost export markets for the
tradtional export crops offer important opportunities for growth. Tea exports in 1989 represented
about 20 percent of annual exports in the early 1970s; with less than half of the country's 20,000 ha
planted with tea being cultivated. Improved prospects for international prices and recent actions to
liberalize tea exports and grant foreign exchange retention privileges should encourage rehabilitation
of tea estates and smallholder gardens as well as the reintroduction of known yielA '*nnroving
husbandry practices. The remaining constraints are inadequate incentives to smallholkrs (that is,
export incentives need to be passed on to smallholders), weak leaf collection and extension services,
inefficient and financially bankrupt parastatals owning and managing tea factories, and unresolved
issu"s of ownership of expropriated estates.
2.11      The potential for growth in cotton production lies in increasing the present low average
yield (around 400 kg/ha) and the area under cultivation. Yield improvements are achievable with
existing cotton seed varieties, provided the farmers' price for cotton is raised relative to prices for
competing food crops. Other key constraints are a seed distribution system that has ceased to
function, and financially weak and inefficient cooperative unions that control ginning. These unions
remain tied to the Lint Marketing Board for sale of their lint. The development of improved seed
varieties with prospects of yields beyond 1000 kg/ha represents another longer term source of growth.
To realize it, the necessary adaptive research needs to be initiated now. In the case of coffee, the



- 11 -
sources of growth are improved quality and increased yields from better husbandry practices and the
replanting of coffee trees. Over-aged robusta coffee trees should be replaced with improved varieties
or with the higher valued arabica species wherever feasible. The main remaining constraints of
inadequate export trade incentives, distorted producer prices, and the shortage of suitable replanting
materials are being addressed under ASAC.
2.12      Sustained sectoral grow+t depends on farmers adopting improved production technologies
and the development of nontraditional exports, including horticultural products. Improved technical
messages are already available for some crops, such as maize and beans, and can substantially raise
yields provided the extension system is made more efficient. To this end, constraints related to
funding, fragmentation of extension services, and the dilapidated state of supporting facilities will
have to be addressed. To help producers raise productivity further, an expanded program for crop
research is essential. Such a program needs to develop appropriate technologies and practices for
seeds and planting material, soil management, weed management, pest control, post-harvest handling,
storage, and marketing. The main impeliment is the absence of an organizational structure within
which a prioritized national agricultural research plan can be cost-effectively implemented.
2.13      The development or nontraditional exports is being encouraged under the recently
introduced export-import scheme for noncoffee products. The key constraints on export
diversification, apart from the weak agricultural research and extension services, are the political and
financial environments and the inadequate infrastructure for moving agricultural products from
primary production centers to the international transport network. While considerable progress has
been made toward restoring the private sector's confidence in the Government's ability to manage the
economy, the private sector remains hesitant and uncertain about the Government's intentions and
policy initiatives. Growing stability and economic progress will establish the required confidence.
2.14      Growth with diversification involves import substitution as well as export diversification.
Prospects for import substituticn include dairy, sugar, tobacco, and edible oil production. Growth in
dairy and sugar production since 1986 has been rapid. In dairy production, the key constraint is the
inefficiency of the fresh milk collection and processing system, controlled and operated by a parastatal
agency. Growth in sugar production is dependent on the completion of the rehabilitation of sugar
estates, timely access by sugar companies to the necessary foreign exchange, and a pricing policy that
ensures efficient import substitution. The development of domestic production of edible oil depends
on improved supporting services-marketing, extension, and research - for domestic production of
oilseeds, and a reduction in the import of oil under bilateral agreements. To pave the way for the
rehabilitation of oilseed mills, the Government must resolve issues of ownership of these assets.
2.15      Research and extension are vital to the development strategy identified for the agricultural
sector. Although expansion of cultivated areas is expected to continue in the medium-term,
technological change will play an increasingly important role in agricultural growth. For resource-
poor smallholder farmers, faced with limited cropping alternatives, technological change, embodied in
higher-yielding--or disease- resistant seed or planting stock, a chemical, or a husbandry techniqu., can
provide one of the few means of improving efficiency and international competitiveness, and thus
raising incomes. The effectiveness of agricultural research and extension has been eroded by
destruction of infrastructure; loss of skilled manpower, due to inadequate wage incentives; and totally
inadequate operating funds. The challenge is to create lean and sustainable organizations for research
and extension to address the main technical constraints facing farmers.



- 12 -
2.16      Complex land tenure systems and the abolition in 1975 of all freeholds of land have
created much uncertainty. The ability of progressive farmers to acquire and retain rights to land is
constrained. Other negative consequences include deforestatior. and encroachment on reserve lands,
as well as abuses in land management. Revisions to the present legislation and the rehabilitation of
the land administration system are being initiated with Bank assistance. Implementation of land
reform requires an improved understanding of the performance of land markets, the relationship
between tenure systems and productivity, and the feasibility of policies determining access to common
resources.
E. Public Expenditures and Sectoral Manageme;it
2.17      Public expenditures in the agricultural sector are spread over production, marketing, and
service activities, thus reducing the effectiveness of interventions. The allocation of recurrent
expenditures heav ly favors salary costs primarily because of serious overstaffing in the unskilled
ranks. This allocation renders the essential support services inoperative. The agricultural sector
investment program needs to be revised to ensure compatibility with objectives for public sector
interventions and implementation capacity, including the availability of funding for recurrent costs.
2.18      Weak institutions for agricultural sector planning, project implementation, and monitoring
contribute to low returns on public expenditures in the sector and constrain agricultural development.
Responsibility for sectoral management is fragmented, and the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning (MFEP) is unable to provide the necessary leadership and coordination. The fundamental
problems, however, are those facing the country's civil service as a whole, namely, inadequate
salaries, shortage of skilled personnel, overstaffing in unskilled ranks, and insufficient funding of
operating and maintenance costs. If the efficiency of agricultural services is to be improved and
sustained, these problems must be addressed through comprehensive civil service reform, including
rationalization of ministerial functions and programs. The Government also needs to improve
coordination between MFEP and the three line ministries (para. 3.1-3.4) involved in the agricultural
sector.
F. Sectoral Development Strategy
2.19      The Government's strategy for agricultural development addresses the issues discussed
above. Hence, as spelled out in its Letter of Agricultural Policy under ASAC, the Government
intends to:
(a)   establish and maintain an efficient incentive and regulatory environment built on
the principles of market-determined prices and reduced public sector involvement
in marketing;
(b)   strengthen its agricultural support services, particularly in the areas of research,
extension, and edication;
(c)   pursue coffee subsector policies consistent with the stabilization objectives;
(d)   improve the efficiency of the public expenditure program and concentrate public
investments and expenditures in areas where the private sector cannot directly
capture the returns such as agricultural research and extension, preventive
veterinary services, and natural resource conservation; and



- 13 -
(e)   strengthen sectoral planning and project implementation by upgrading planning
skills and coordinating the planning process.
2.20      The Government also intends to continue to improve the infrastructure supporting
transport, processing, and marketing of agricultural products.
III. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RELATED ISSUES
A. Background
Agricultural Support Services
3.1       Until mid-1991 there were four major government organizations principally involved in
agriculture-the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries
(MAIF), the Ministry of Environment Protection, and the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing.
Thnen in an effort to streamline services and improve coordination in the agricultural sector, MOA and
MAIF were amalgamated to form the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
(MAAIF) in June 1991. The structures and mandates inherited from the two former ministries are as
follows:
(a)   the Department of Agriculture (DA), headed by a Director who is assisted by four
Commissioners responsible for Extension, Training and Information, Development
and Agricultural Planning.
(b)   a network of research centers coordinated by a Secretary for agricultural research.
Further details on research are in paras. 3.21-3.22. All research conducted at the
main research centers and sub-centers is supposed to be under the direction of the
Secretary for agricultural research but roles and responsibilities have not been
clearly defined and coordinating mechanisms are weak. Support for the transfer of
all research responsibilities to a semi-autonomous National Agricultural Research
Organization (NARO) is being provided under a proposed Agricultural Research
and Training Project (para. 4.1).
(c)   the Department of Veterinary Services and Animal Industry whose mandate is to
increase production of livestock and their by-products. The Department has
District Veterinary Officers in every district assisted by Veterinary Officers,
Animal Health Officers, and Veterinary Assistants (an average of 30-35 staff per
district).
(d)   the Department of Fisheries, which is responsible for development and management
of the country's aquatic resources. The Department controls fish fry centers, boat
building centers and zonal research stations. District Fisheries Officers supervise
fishery extension workers and research staff at the fish fry centers.
(e)   a Department of Tsetse Control created n 1978 and charged with the control of the
tsetse fly.



.14 -
3.2       The streamlining of MAAIF's structure and coordination arrangements are being worked
out under the public sector reform program supported by IDA under the SAC and EFMP. Further
details on the structure and management of MAAIF and the proposed reorganization are in Annex 5a.
In the meanwhile, agreement has been reached and a directive was issued in March 1992 on the
structure and arrangements for a unified extension system as shown in Chart 1 and discussed in paras.
3.16 to 3.20.
3.3       Certain extension and research responsibilities still lie with other ministries and agencies.
The Ministry of Energy, Minerals, Water and Environmental Protection is responsible for
coordinating and regulating national efforts in the sustainable development of Uganda's natural
resources and for ensuring the preservation of the quality of the environnrnt. These responsibilities
are executed mainly through three departments-the Forestry Department, the Department of
Meteorology, and the Department of Environment with a total manpower of about 350 technical and
administrative staff. The Forestry Department is directly involved in extension. It employs over 30
senior Forestry Officers, some of whom are designated as District Forestry Officers, as well as
extension workers for the implementation of forestry extension programs. A Principal Forest Officer
is in charge of forestry research based at the Nakawa Forest Research Station in Kampala. The
Ministry of Commerce, Industry, Cooperatives and Marketing was recently created through a merger
of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry with that of Cooperatives and Marketing. Two
departments, Marketing and Cooperatives, are charged with the development and regulation of
Uganda's various cooperatives and marketing boards and are therefore heavily involved in the
agricultural sector. Extension workers of the department of Cooperatives organize farmers' groups
and assist in registering their organizations.
3.4       All three ministries undertake research and/or extension activities more or less
independently of each other, under a hierarchical management structure from the national level down
to the district level and for the MAAIF, down to the parish level. The research and extension
activities are uncoordinated and there is much duplication. In addition, other institutions such as
Makerere University and the recently created Uganda Trypanosomiasis Research Organization and the
Uganda Freshwater Fisheries Research Station conduct research studies and undertake limited
extension activities. The coordination problems among these agencies will be addressed under the
proposed NARO and unified extension system (paras. 3.16 and 3.22).
B. Institutional Issues
Coordination
3.5       Given the dominance of agriculture in the economy and the dispersion of responsibilities
over several ministries, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP) is heavily involved
in policy formulation, analysis, and implementation in the sector. Overall coordination is achieved
through an Agricultural Policy Committee (APC), a council of the Permanent Secretaries (PSs) of
those ministries involved in agricultural development. The APC is chaired by the PS of the MFEP
and serviced by an Agricultural Secretariat attached to the central Bank of Uganda. The coordination
process has functioned well for the formulation of sectoral development policy however, for the
implementation of projects the structure has proven to be unwieldy. Responsibilities need to be
clearly defined and the line ministries need to be given clear mandates and independence to implement
their approved programs without constant referral to APC whose mandate should be focussed on
policy formulation and overall guidance.



- 15 -
MAAIF
3.6      The recent merger of MOA and MAIF into MAAIF has improved coordination of
activities considerably. But the operational efficiency and impact of MAAIF are still constrained by
the fragmentation of its programs and management systems caused by the ad hoc arrangements put i
place by various donors, including IDA, for policy formulation, project management, and
implementation. These arrangements have led to problems of inefficient resource allocation,
duplication of administrative arrangements, and lack of harmony between individual efforts. The
objectives of the individual donor projects are appropriate and carefully screened by Government, a
most of these have contributed important resources and produced valuable results. Too often,
however, their benefits cease at the end of the project, leaving little permanent capacity for
maintaining activities, and frequently they function as independent units without contributing to
MAAIF's overall institutional development.
Financial Management
3.7      This is an area of particular weakness. A 1991 study I/ of MAIF found that the
existing Government accounting system lacked financial control and that the system suffered from
arbitrary allocation decisions, a resource allocation bias in favor of headquarters administration, and
deficiency of finance and business management skills.
3.8       The recommendations of this study regarding accounting and financial control remain
valid for the combined ministry. Improvement is also necessary in financial management functions
that integrate project funds into national programs, and that use existing information for
organizational and program problem solving and decision making.
3.9       Government has adopted an ambitious policy of decentralization under which the
responsibilities for the overall provision, operation, and maintenance of specific public services is to
be devolved to the 38 districts. These changes will have far-reaching implications for the way
MAAIF efforts are planned, financed, and carried out. This policy coincides with the MAAIF
objective of strengthening the base of its operations in order to provide high-quality services to
farmers and increase accountability to its users. Improving management skills at the district and
county levels will be of paramount importance in improving Ministry performance. Considerable
uncertainty remains, however, on how the decentralization policy will be imple.:Lented and how it wil
affect the operations of MAAIF and other central govermnent agencies.
C. Extension Issues, Experiences, and Strategy
Issues and Experiences
3.10      The professional cadre of the extension services of the combined MAAIF presently
comprises about 500 staff who hold a minimum of a Bachelor's of Science degree, mostly from
Makerere University. They are supported by about 1850 staff in the next cadre who are diploma
5./      Uganda Livestock Services Project, Expenditure Review and Manpower, Final Report, April 1991.



- 16 -
holders trained in the agricultural colleges of MAAIF. In the lowest level are about 1800 Assistants,
some of whom were trained in Vocational Farm Schools or received on-the-job training.
3.11      These staff are presently deployed directly under MAAIF's extension programs or under a
number of externally funded projects. Except for the staff involved in the externally funded projects,
the extension staff are ill-equipped to carry out their functions. They do not receive regular training
in extension delivery or in new technologies. There are little or no linkages with research and
therefore few messages to disseminate. The staff also lack transport and field allowances. The total
recurrent budget of MAAIF of about US$ 6.7 million is sufficient only for the low base salaries and
extremely limited travel and operating expenses.
3.12      The externally funded projects involved in extension are multi-sectoral or commodity
specific and cover specified geographical areas. In the absence of a national extension structure and
approach, each project has tended to evolve its own extension system and attempts at
research/extension linkages. The Agricultural Development Project (ADP) financed by IDA and the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has been operating in about six districts in
the North and East since 1986. An attempt was made to implement a unified extension approach
under a Training and Visit (T&V) system of management, but was abandoned because of coordination
problems and the high operating costs involved. At the time MOA and MAIF were separate
ministries and coordination was particularly difficult and costly. Furthermore the system was applied
in a blue print approach without adequate analysis of the problems and sustainable levels of intensity
of training and coverage. Linkages with research and appropriate messages were also identified as
major problems. Extension focus then shifted to the development of groups, distribution of inputs
and implements, dissemination of improved planting material and known, standard messages. The
project has been particularly successful in the development of women's groups for production
purposes as well as for the sale of inputs and implements.
3.13      On the basis of experiences from ADP the South West Regional Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project (SWRARP) was designed with emphasis on adaptive research, on-station as
well as on-farm. The project is also financed by IDA and IFAD and has been operating since 1988.
The adaptive research program appears to have been successful but the impact in farmers' fields has
been less than expected. The expertise was not available within the project to translate the research
findings into messages appropriate to farmers needs or their perceptions. This type of expertise and
understanding of the nature of extension is available elsewhere in MAAIF but because of the enclave
nature of the project and other bureaucratic red tape this was never brought to bear on the problems
of SWRARP. Furthermore considerable capacity has been built up in MAAIF headquarters for the
production of audio-visual aids but for the same reasons were not used in the project area to
disseminate the research findings.
3.14      Other donors have also taken various approaches to extension delivery. The EEC initially
focussed on a single crop in its Coffee Rehabilitation Programme (1982 to 1987) but, on the basis of
experience, has shifted its emphasis in its second phase project to a Farming Systems Support
Programme (FSSP), favoring a unified approach to extension while also addressing input supply,
credit, and marketing problems. The UNDP horticulture project has integrated research and
extension through the secondment of field extension staff to work directly with research staff. Other
projects in agro-forestry, smallholder tea, and fisheries also have extension components and are
financed by various Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and bilateral donors.



- 17 -
3.15     The multiplicity of approaches under the various efforts have created coordination and
management problems for MAAIF and other government agencies. The impact has been less than
optimal and there is considerable duplication of effort. The problems were recognized by GOU and
number of actions have been taken. With funding support under ASAC, a National Agricultural
Extension Plan (NAEP) was drafted by a working group set up by the Agricultural Policy Committe
Extension Strategy
3.16      The NAEP was prepared in December 1990 by a Working Group set up by GOU with
financing from IDA. It established the basic principles concerning the new extension approach and
methodology after taking into account lessons learnt from past experiences with extension in Uganda
as well as ongoing experiences in other African countries. The extension approach adopted is
compatible with the (T&V) system of management and extension. The strategy outlined in the NAE
focusses on a unified extension approach whereby parallel services would be minimized as much a
possible at the farm level: agricultural field level workers would be responsible for crop and animal
production, agro-forestry and fish pond aquaculture. Other field levei workers would only be
responsible only for animal health, plantation forestry, and lake fishery. Agricultural extension ager
would live in the parish in which they work and concentrate their activities around these bases befor
spreading further afield. The agents, Field Extension Workers (FEWs), would operate through
farmer groups which would be visited according to a regular work schedule. Considerable experieni
has already been developed in extension delivery through formal and informal farmer groups (paras.
3.43 and 3.44) and this experience would be built upon and expanded under the unified extension
approach. Technical support would be provided by Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) from within ti
MAAIF, as well as from research and other agencies such as the Departments of Cooperatives and
Forestry and Makerere University. District Farm Institutes (DFIs) would play a key role in farmer
training and demonstration of improved techniques.
3.17      In addition to the other research/extension linkages outlined in para 3.26 the NAEP also
proposed that a special cadre of high level extension subject matter specialists with academic and
professional qualifications comparable to researchers be based at the major research institutes to
provide on-going linkage between research and extension. They would serve as two-way conduits fo
information between researchers and farmers through extension staff to the field and vice versa; help
determine recommended practices; undertake periodic staff training; help diagnose farm problems;
help prepare information materials; and serve as a source of information to decision makers.
3.18      The NAEP also recommended that the national extension information center be rebuilt an
staffed by information specialists, that media resource centers be established at District Farm Institute
and that the DFIs be rehabilitated and re-equipped.
3.19      Government has endorsed this extension strategy and has already taken a number of
actions towards its implementation. The main agricultural ministries have been merged and
reorganized as discussed earlier. MAAIF has also issued a directive in March 1992 on the structure
for the unified extension system (Chart 1) and is now seeking resources to implement the system.
Activities were started on a pilot scale in. selected counties in 4 districts with funding from the
Headstart Agricultural Research and Extension (HARE) prograun under ASAC and then expanded int
3 districts in SWRARP and ADP. The initial experience has been satisfactory, extension staff were
provided with the necessary facilities and field allowances (in accordance with Government
regulations, para 4.28). Extension training workshops have been carried out as planned with the



- 18-
participation of SMSs from within MAAIF, including the researchers, as well as from the
Departments of Cooperatives and Forestry. Coordination has been improved through contractual
arrangements to cover the expenses of the SMSs and other staff who provide technical training in the
workshops for extension staff. Farmer response has been enthusiastic and no major difficulties have
been encountered in applying the group approach. Extension agents have been working through
existing as well as new groups.
3.20      The proposed AEP supports the extension strategy adopted by Government. It would
provide assistance for gradually expanding and improving extension coverage under systematic T&V
management. Government's demonstrated commitment to its extension strategy and the initial
experience in implementing the approach provide justification for expanding activities within the pilot
seven districts and into additional nine. The experiences of the AEP from these sixteen would
provide the basis for refining the extension strategy, where necessary, and the design of a national
program for extension services across the whole country.
D. Agricultural Research and Available Technology
Research
3.21      The current National Agricultural Research System (NARS) comprises 9 research
institutes, 11 iesearch stations, 4 regional veterinary laboratories, and 65 variety trial centers. The
overall condition of these research establishments is very poor. The research system is fragmented in
five departments (agriculture, animal industry, fisheries, food technology, and forestry) of three
ministries, research units in a several parastatals, and some Faculties (Agriculture and Forestry,
Veterinary Medicine, Science) of Makerere University. This fragmentation has inevitably led to poor
coordination, some unnecessary duplication of efforts, and an unsatisfactory generation of improved
technologies relevant to farmers and producers. The situation is exacerbated by inadequate and
unstable funding of research activities.
3.22      Despite these formidable problems, there are some active research programs at all the
research stations under various donor assisted projects. Contact with the international agricultural
research community is also improving. To further these initiatives and increase the momentum the
Government has decided to rationalize and strengthen the agricultural research sysiem by establishing
a National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO). This organization is intended to provide a
framework for the appropriate use, consolidation and integration of the available research
infrastructure with improved administrative and management procedures. Support to NARO and the
priority research programs not currently funded would be provided by IDA through the proposed
Agricultural Research and Training Project (ARTP).
Level of Farming and Improved Technologies
3.23      As a result of the active research programs, improved technologies for certain crops are
available but not yet widely disseminated to farmers. As discussed in Chapter II current farming in
Uganda is at a low level of technology. Productivity of land and labor is low, husbandry practices
are poor, and diseases are also becoming widespread. Only 3 percent of Ugandan farmers use animal
traction, even though cattle rearing is an integral part of a large number of the farming systems. rhe
use of fertilizers is low due to their high cost. There is considerable potential for promoting organic



-19 -
fertilizer plograms for sustainable agricultural systems. Details on the major production problems,
the available technologies, extension focus and the research gaps are discussed in Annex 3a.
3.24     Technologies presently available for dissemination by extension include: (a) improved
varieties developed under the bean research program and improved varieties and production practices
resulting from the maize-soybean-sunflower research efforts, both funded by USAID; (b) high-
yielding disease resistant Irish potato varieties resulting from the variety introduction and testing
program; (c) varieties and technologies developed through the Canadian-funded banana and cassava
research projects; (d) improved varieties and horticultural crop production technologies developed
through the UNDP/FAO executed research and extension program in horticulture; (e) improved
forage species and management practices, and supplementary feeding regime; (f) improved agro-
forestry technology; (g) improved fishing management techniques in ponds; (h) apiculture; (i)
improved clones of Robusta coffee: and (j) better management for the village indigenous chicken.
3.25     The production of seeds and planting material for the concerned crops is being facilitated
through the Research Stations and District Far'n Institutes with ongoing assistance from IDA and
other donors. The capacity of the Research Stations need to be expanded to meet the growing
demand and urgent work is required on the disease problems in two important crops-bananas and
arabica coffee. The proposed ARTP would address these issues.
E. Research-Extension Linkagew
3.26     Research-extensiun linkages is a pervasive problem in many countries and Uganda is no
exception. At present there are no functioning national coordinating mechanisms. The linkages
which exist have been forged through specifl- projects or commodity programs. Several different
approaches are being pursued to achieve these linkages. Under the SWARP (para. 3.13) researchers
have been recruited to carry out adaptive research directly under the project in an effort to bring
research to extension. In the UNDP horticulture project (para. 3.14) on the other hand, the extension
staff have been assigned to the research center and work directly with the researchers. Both
approaches have some merits and these have been taken into account in the NAEP and the
recommendations on linkages supported under this project and the ARTP. These linkage
arrangements would include:
(a)   The PS of MAAIF would be a member of the proposed National Agricultural
Research Board which governs NARO;
(b)   Extension liaison units would be established in the NARO Secretariat and the
constituent institutes, with extension staff seconded by MAAIF. These units would
assist private farmers and extension agents in gaining access to relevant information
and assistance from the research system, and would coordinate such joint activities
as on-farm trials, field days, and preparation of publications;
(c)   The Directors of Agriculture and Animal Resources, MAAIF would be members of
the Board of the NARO, and the head of the extension liaison unit in the NARO
Secretariat would be a member of the Management Committee;
(d)   Each Research Institute would have a program review subcommittee, which would
include a representative from the extension service. In addition farmers,



- 20 -
nongovernment organizations and donors would be represented in this committee.
The committee will review the annual work program and budget of the institute and
recommend their approval to the NARO Secretariat. The committee would ensure
that research programs are relevant to the production systems of the area, taking
into account feedback on production constraints from the regular extension
meetings and joint research-extension diagnostic surveys, which would be
conducted periodically. Field trials should be conducted in close collaboration with
the extension service;
(e)   Research staff would be under contractual obligation to participate in extension
activities. Piomotion would be linked to performance in this area as well as to
scientific achievement.
F. Agricultural Training and Education
3.27      In the past, Uganda's colleges had an international reputation for excellence, but now
many are not functioning or are in a state of disrepair. Certificate and Diploma agricultural courses
are now being held mainly at Bukalasa Agricultural College, which has been partially rehabilitated by
the USAID Manpower for Agriculture Development Project. The Arapai Agricultural College has
recently resumed operations but is in need of rehabilitation. Busitema National College of
Agricultural Mechanization has been severely damaged but continues to run residential courses. It
was partially repaired and re-equipped by the former Soviet Union.
3.28      Bukalasa Agricultural College provides training for the Certificate and Diploma in
Agriculture. Entry requirements for the Certificate course are 4 "0" levels; for the Diploma course,
applicants must have the Certificate, 2 years' work in the field, a good pass in the professional
written examination of the Public Service and a satisfactory interview.
3.29      Makerere University has created a new department of "Agricultural Extension Education",
to prepare graduates for placement in the Ministry of Agriculture as extension officers, or for
placement in secondary schools as teachers of agriculture. The syllabus aims to provide the proper
balance between theory and practical skills for university graduates, and the department will support
in-service training for senior extension staff and teachers of agriculture.
3.30      Teaching at both the Agricultural College and Makerere University is largely theoretical
and by rote and provides little in the way of skills training or problem solving. This is gradually
changing at the University with ongoing staff development currently funded mostly by USAID.
Change in the college of agriculture will depend upon the retraining of staff and a change in
examinaticn procedures. Examinations are set by the National Examinations Board and are based on
rote learning; they do not examine intellectual skills such as the ability to analyze, diagnose, and
make good judgments about agricultural and social situations--essential skills for extension staff. The
va.aminations also need to assess practical technical skills, since extension staff need to teach skills to
farmers and demonstrate them effectively. Once intellectual and technical skills are an examination
requirement they will be taught.
3.31      Students from Makerere University and Bukalasa Agricultural College are attached to
extension staff for practical experience in extension. The students are attached to the extension
officer responsible for the student's home parish during the long vacation. The college has an



-21 -
outreach program one day each week during the 1st and 2nd terms in which student groups work wit
extension staff close to the college. Appropriate financial and coordination arrangements need to be
made between the Education institutions and the extension services to ensure that these students
receive effective training during this period. The students' program of training should be planned
and it should be ascertained that the extension staff have the time, equipment and ability to train themi
effectively.
3.32      Output from Makerere University is relatively low. Even though the current output will
adequately cover short-term requirements of the Ministry, the re-establishment of an active
agricultural industry will demand large numbers of graduates.
3.33      Bukalasa College enrolls 80 students for the Certificate course, of which 70 or more
normally pass; and 30 for the Diploma course, of which 28-29 would be expected to pass. These are
sufficient for the Ministry's requirements but, would be insufficient to satisfy a growing demand fron
the private sector. The National Manpower survey made for the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Development in 1989: ported a shortage in both government and private sectors of 1,660 skilled
agricultural and fisheries workers and 1,030 technicians. In addition 266 professional posts were
vacant.
3.34     IDA assistance to Makerere is proposed under the Agricultural Research and Training
Project (FY93). Support would be provided to Makerere for staff and program development to
provide trained staff for priority needs in MAAIF and the private sector. It is also proposed to
support the establishment of a continuing education center and hostel at Makerere's Agriculture
Research Institute at Kabanyolo for in-service and other short-term training mainly for MAAIF staff.
3.35      Assistance would be provided under the AEP for staff development, curricula
improvements, and rehabilitation of Bukalasa. Discussions are underway to arrive at satisfactory
arrangements under which Makerere would coordinate the assistance to Bukalasa and be more
involved in the design and quality control of programs at Bukalasa.
G. The :Role of Women In Agriculture
3.36      In Uganda, women farmers ,liay a significant role in the production of agricultural crops,
especially food crops. Yet very few extension educational programs are aimed specifically at women
or conducted in such a way that they wo,:id feel comfortable in participating. i, therefore, means
that the needs of agricultural development .u;nnot adequately be met without meeting the needs of
women farmers.
3.37     The vital role of women in agri(uivh ral production and rural development was further
reiterated during the 24th session of the FAO Conference held in Rome in November 1987. The
conference re-affirmed FAO's and other organizations' responsibility to carry forward policies and
programs for the integration of women in development.
3.38      According to a "Uganda Women's Needs Survey" in 1988, under the sponsorship of the
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), more than 90 percent of women in Uganda are engaged
in crop production and contribute to the bulk of farm labor. Only 7 percent of those in the survey
owned land. The survey was conducted in the four districts of Hoima, Masaka, Mukono and Tororo.



- 22 -
The sample of women studied included 685 rural women and the findings are judged to be typical of
what might be found throughout Uganda.
3.39     The study found that although women contribute most of the farm labor over 83 percent
use rudimentary tools. About 17 percent of ihe women in the study did not have a hoe, panga or axe.
The tools they used were borrowed. Only one out of four had tractor hiring services available and
very few of them could afford these services. There was little knowledge about farm inputs, such as
spray pumps, weed killers, animal feeds, insecticides, and fertilizers. Twelve percent knew about
mulching and the use of improved seeds.
3.40     Only five percent of those in the study reported they had been visited by agricultural
extension workers. Decision making concerning their farm operations was often found to be made by
husbands and relatives. Also disappointing to the women was lack of access to credit. Only one
percent of the women had tried to borrow from the Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB) Rural Farmers
Scheme. A majority of the women interviewed found the prospect of approaching a bank and
applying for a loan very difficult. A high rate of illiteracy added to their problem of understanding
and using the banking system. The low percentage of women owning land also added to their
problem of obtaining credit.
3.41     About 10 percent of the women sell food crops in the markets but just over one quarter of
that group said they made decisions on how to use the money from their sales. In addition to farm
labor, most farm women are expected to prepare food, care for the home, and look after the family--
making their role and workload difficult and heavy.
3.42     These findings along with those from the localized diagnostic surveys (para. 4.7 and 5.24)
would be taken into account in the design of extension approaches and messages for women farmers.
H. Agricultural Producer Organizations
Farner Cooperatives
3.43     Uganda has 5,300 cooperatives, 7 national unions, 37 district unions and 5,256 primary
societies. Primary societies, located in most villages, are small businesses with a few employees,
many with stores and warehouses. Two thirds are multipurpose cooperatives, selling inputs to and
receiving produce from farmers. District unions are usually prominent businesses in their
communities. They are multipurpose cooperatives with many primary societies as members. The
Uganda Cooperative Alliance is the most important apex organization. It is generally believed that
cooperatives have a comparative advantage in some activities and can play a useful role in promoting
efficient and equitable development of Ugandan agriculture in the context of a liberalized, competitive
economic environment, if they can become more efficient businesses. The issues to be addressed
include: (a) differences between management and membership on the running of the enterprise,
especialiy at the union level; and (b) financial insolvency faced by many unions, especially those in
the cotton sector. The issues are being addressed under on-going sector work. Support for
rationalization and improved efficiency of cotton cooperatives is envisaged under the proposed
IDA/IFAD financed Cotton Development Project (FY95).



- 23 -
Informal Organizations
3.44      There are also a large number of informal farmer and rural groups created by Non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and other agencies. Some of these groups are already involved
in agricultural extension or could provide a useful vehicle for extension. For women in particular,
groups have proven to be a successful means of providing extension and other services. Women's
groups and clubs are active in every district in Uganda, with the number of groups ranging from 2 in
Kitgum to 54 in Mbale. Average membership also varies widely from as low as 12 in Mbale to 55
in Rukungiri. These women's groups are , resently involved predominantly in child care and nutrition
activities. In areas where there are active extension programs, such as the ADP, (para. 3.12)
extension programs have been integrated into the activities of the women's groups without much
difficulty.
I. Rural Marketing and Finance
Input Supply
3.45      The agricultural market for fertilizers and plant protection chemicals is at an embryonic
stage; it is small, fragmented and somewhat distorted. A reasonable estimate would place the
country's fertilizer consumption at around 2,000 to 2,500 tons of nutrients for an estimated crop area
of about four million hectares. The inputs market is fragmented in the sense that limited quantities
of selected inputs are available mostly in Kampala or at some district headquarters, but there is no
price competition between various regions. The market is distorted because of the subsidized sale of
some inputs by MAAIF and the pricing policies of donor-funded agricultural projects. The key issue
is the incentive structure for increased private sector involvement. The private sector considers that
the financial risks involved in importing, stocking and selling agricultural inputs are simply too great
to attract them into full-scale business. The risks relate to: (a) the seasonal nature of demand for
fertilizers and pesticides; (b) the long lead time required to import the goods (3-6 months) after
opening letters of credit with the capital borrowed at very high nominal rates of interest (about 45
percent); and (c) continual heavy depreciation of the Ugandan shilling. In order to break even and
make some profit, a trader must be able to sell the inputs at prices nearly double the cif cost to cover
the interest costs and depreciation in the value of the shilling. As a consequence, barring some
desperately needed agro-chemicals and livestock drugs, which have an assured market despite high
prices, most of the imports by the trade are against tenders to supply Government distribution
mechanisms. This situation is likely to continue for some time but the consequences for the proposed
project are not major. Key inputs for the control of disease and animal nutrition are being financed
by IDA and other donors under ongoing programs. Extension messages also include particular focus
on the considerable production potential from improved husbandry practices and use of improved
planting material (cuttings and seeds) which are produced locally. (Further details on extension
messages are in Annex 3a).
Output Markets
3.46      The major constraints on output markets in the past have been Government control of
export marketing and an overvalued exchange rate. Major progress has been made in removing these
constraints under the reform program of ASAC and production has been responding but is still
considerably below potential. Output of the traditional export crops - coffee, cotton, tea and sugar -
are still considerably below their former levels and there would be no problems in finding markets for



- 24 -
incremental output in the medium term. Markets are also available for the nontraditional export
crops, the constraints relate mainly to policy and infrastructure (para. 1.23). The market for
foodcrops has been growing steadily, fuelled by both domestic demand and the (mostly informal)
trade with the neighboring countries. There is still considerable potential in both markets to absorb
incremental production. The common constraints on food crop markets--transport, perishability, and
market information--exist, but are not presently binding constraints on production in Uganda.
Financing
3.47      Financing for small farmers is available only through special credit programs financed by
external donors. For coffee and cotton farmers, the cooperatives societies have been the channel for
financing but a number of these societies are now insolvent. The availability of credit is therefore a
major limiting factor on the adoption of improved practices which involve purchased inputs or sizabl
investments such as animal traction. These constraints will be taken into account in the focus of the
extension messages and efforts will be made to ensure that messages are designed within the means o
farmers and the availability of financing. The availability of financing is expected to improve over
time as result of ongoing reforms in the financial sector, increased rural incomes and progress with
land titling which would enable farmers to provide collateral for their loans.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origins and Objectives
Origins
4.1       The need for restructuring and strengthening of agricultural support services was
recognized early in the process of restructuring the agricultural sector. In the Action Plan for the
Agricultural Policy Agenda developed as part of the economic recovery program, GOU and IDA
agreed to create two technical Working Groups-9a for research and 9b for extension-to develop
strategies for effective and sustainable research and extension services. The recommendations of the
Working Groups led to the preparation of investment programs for research and extension by Task
Forces established by APC. The Task Forces were assisted by consultants from FAO/CP and the
International Services for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR). IDA assistance to the programs
will be through the proposed Agricultural Extension Project and an Agricultural Research and
Training Project which is expected to be approved later in FY93. Both projects are part of a wider
long-term program, financed by several donors, to strengthen the management and delivery of key
services in the agricultural sector.
4.2       The proposed project, AEP, focusses on expanding the delivery of unified extension
services started under ASAC (para 3.19), and the improvement of supporting management services
within MAAIF. The project's field extension activities would be limited to about half the country for
several reasons. First, implementation capacity needs to be strengthened. MAAIF, which was
recently created through the merger of two ministries, has not yet been able to establish strong
management and coordination systems. Financial management and program implementation are areas
of particular weakness. Second, given the state of the Ugandan economy it would require several
years to develop the revenue base for country-wide extension services. Finally, GOU is involved in a
major decentralization of all government services to unified management at district level. The



-25-
implications for the management and implementation of extension are not yet clear, but project design
is sufficiently flexible to adjust to decentralized district management. Despite these constraints,
momentum and interest in extension built up by preparatory actions under ASAC provide sufficient
basis for proceeding with a limited operation in extension at this time. There are some urgent disease
problems which can be addressed immediately by extension through dissemination of improved
husbandry practices and planting material currently being multiplied with assistance from IDA and
other donors.
Project Objectives
4.3       The project would support Government's strategy for the improvement of productivity and
diversification in the agricultural sector. The broad objectives of the project are to address the urgent
needs for disease control and yield improvements and to build capacity to deliver and support
effective extension services. The project would aim to improve: (a) efficiency in the delivery of
extension services in 16 districts; (b) training capacity and skills of extension agents and farmers; (c)
adoption of improved techniques by farmers; and (d) efficiency in management services in MAAIF in
order to support the delivery of extension and ensure its sustainability. The lessons and experiences
of the project in implementation and impact would provide the basis for the design of national
extension services.
B. Summary of Project Components
4.4       The field activities of the project would cover 16 districts out of a total of 38 in the
country as shown in IBRD Map No. 24007. As least two districts have been selected from each of
the six agro-ecological zones in Uganda described in Annex 3b. The districts were selected on the
basis of agro-economic potential, accessibility, proximity to a DFI, and the availability of staff and
facilities. Adjacent districts were selected within each zone in order to maximize demonstration
effects and impact as well as for purposes of coordination. At the sectoral level the project would
also strengthen training capacity and key management systems in MAAIF, and finance studies on
extension related activities.
4.5       The elements of these broad components of the project are as follows:
(a)   Strengthening the delivery of extension services through the provision of transport,
equipment, rehabilitation of facilities, and incremental operating costs;
(b) Improvement in training capacity and skills through (i) provision of equipment,
supplies, facilities and transport for regular in-service training of extension staff
and periodic farmer training at the District Farmer Institutes, with the involvement
of research staff; (ii) rehabilitation, curriculum development and upgrading of staff
capabilities at Bukalasa Agricultural College; and (iii) demonstrations at the DFIs
and farmer-managed trials in their own fields;
(c)   Strengthening of management systems through (i) training in management and
team building for MAAIF staff at headquarters and in the project districts; (ii) staff
training and consultancy services to improve financial management, procurement,
and budgetary procedures; (iii) operational support for monitoring and evaluation
of extension activities; and (iv) improved office equipment and facilities; and



- 26 -
(d)   Studies on (i) the rationalization of the Training Institutes and Colleges of MAAIF;
(ii) efficiency and impact of alternate technology transfer mechanisms; (iii) a Mid-
Term Review and assessment; and (iv) the design of a follow-on project.
C. Detailed Features
(a) Delivery of Extension (US$9.55 million, including contingencies)
4.6       This component would establish and implement a unified extension approach for crops,
livestock and fisheries in the 16 districts which comprise 67 counties. Project coverage would be
phased over the six cropping seasons in 1992 to 1994. Pilot operations have been started in the first
season of 1992 with funding under ongoing projects (para. 3.19) and would be expanded with PPF
funding in the second season. It is expected that all districts would be reached by the second season
of 1994. In order to facilitate staff deployment and consolidation of extension efforts, the coverage
within each district and county would be phased. The progressive coverage of districts and counties
is shown in Annex 4a.
4.7       The thrust of the project would be on strengthening the capacity of MAAIF to deliver
efficient and relevant extension services at farm level and on the development of appropriate
management systems for the services. In order to ensure that extension is relevant to farmer needs a
brief diagnostic survey of farmer problems would be carried out in each new district and a District
Action Plan (DAP) would be prepared for the district and updated annually. The survey and DAP
would also cover the special needs of women and young farmers. An assurance to this effect was
obtained at negotiations (para. 7.1(a)).
4.8       The main delivery mechanism would be regular visits by Field Extension Workers (FEWs)
to contact groups of farmers under a T&V system of management which involves a fixed schedule of
visits to farmers, regular training of extension staff and clearly defined supervision and training
responsibilities. Other delivery mechanisms such as mass media (radio and films) and printed
materials would be used to reinforce the dir:ct contact mechanism and as alternative mechanisms for
delivery of extension. The relative efficiency of each mechanism would be monitored and assessed
(paras. 4.18 and 5. 15).
4.9       The project would provide vehicles, equipment and incremental operating costs for
extension activities in the 16 districts. A limited number of staff quarters would be constructed for
field staff, mainly in remote areas. FEWs would be provided with bicycles, and county officers with
motor cycles. Four wheel drive vehicles would be provided for use of Headquarters and district
officers. In districts with a substantial workload of animal husbandry activities the District Veterinary
Officer would be provided with an independent vehicle. One Technical Assistance (TA) position for
an Extension Adviser would be financed for about three years to assist in the design and
implementation of the extension program as well as contribute to capacity building. Appointment of
the Extension Adviser would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 7.5(a)) and recruitment
would be initiated under the PPF for the project. The qualifications and terms of reference for the
Adviser (Annex 4c) have been agreed with GOU. An assurance was obtained that the qualifications
and terms of reference would be satisfactory to IDA for the duration of the assignment (para 7.1(b)).
This is the only long term internationally recruited TA position under the project.



- 27 -
(b) Improvement in Train.ng Capacity and Skills (US$6.10 million, including contingencies)
4.10      The project would support technical training for both staff and farmers in the 16 selected
districts. The project would provide for re-training of those FEWs who would require intensive
training in crop husbandry to be able to effectively participate in unified extension activities. In
addition to regular training under the proposed extension system of fortnightly training and monthly
workshops, the project would provide for training for staff at all levels in selected subject matter
areas and career development training of SMSs (15) and Field Assistants (80). The project would
also support nondegree training abroad (15 person-months), study tours and degree training for six
SMSs in priority areas. Agreement was obtained that IDA's prior approval would be sought on the
candidates, courses and training institutes selected (para. 7.2(a)). Details of the extension training
program are in Annex 4b.
4.11      The project would also strengthen six existing DFIs, located one each in the six agro-
ecological zones, and each DFI would serve at least two districts. The DFIs are responsible for
organizing the training of staff and farmers and for providing audio-visual support to extension staff.
Financing would be provided under the project for the rehabilitation of buildings and facilities,
equipment and incremental operating costs.
4.12      About US$300,000 has been provided for civil works and equipment for the rehabilitation
of Bukalasa Agricultural College. A curriculum development program would be designed and
implemented with assistance from Makerere University and the skills of the teaching staff would be
upgraded under the project.
4.13      The project would support demonstrations of proven techniques on the farms attached to
each DFI as well as on-farm trials. Demonstrations at the DFIs would be confined mostly to animal
traction activities and new areas such as bee keeping. Adaptive research experiments to be carried
out by researchers at the DFIs would be financed under the proposed Agricultural Research and
Training Project. The greater part of the project financing under this component is therefore focussed
on on-farm trials. The project would support, on average, about five trials per season in each county
amounting to about 2000 trials over the project period. Provision has also been made for field days,
farmers' local study tours, and crop competitions.
(c) Improved Management Systems (US$1.81 million, including contingencies)
4.14      As discussed in paras. 3.1 and 3.6, MAAIF has been recently created through the merger
of two ministries, and smooth management and working relationships have not yet been fully
established at Headquarters or district level. GOU's proposed decentralization of responsibilities to
district level as well as the proposed activities under the project would pose additional management
challenges for MAAIF at all levels.
4.15      The project would support in-country short term management training seminars focussed
on team building and implementation for senior and district-level management staff. Management and
decision-making processes would be reviewed as part of the management training and developim:er.
program. Further details are in para. 5.19 and Annexes Sb and 5c. Provision has also been madle fcr
about six person-months of external training and study tours in management, to broaden and diversify
perspectives with respect to management.



- 28 -
4.16      Financial management, procurement and budgetary procedures have been identified as
major bottlenecks (paras. 1.21-1.23) in project implementation in Uganda. The project would support
the local rectuitment of a Financial Officer (para. 4.36) and a Procurement Specialist (para. 4.24) to
strengthen capacity in these areas. Staff training and some office technology would be financed to
improve the systems at headquarters and in the project districts. Particular attention would be paid to
improving the processes for budgetary planning, allocation, and incurring of expenditures, with the
objective of rationalizing the allocation of resources in accordance with established priorities.
4.17      The project would support the design and implementation of an improved Management
Information Systems (MIS) in MAAIF which would generate the required information for informed
decision making by MAAIF management as well as satisfy the reporting requirements of the various
donors.  The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) System for extension activities would provide the
basis for developing the MIS. An M&E cell for extension would be established at Headquarters
under the direction of the Commissioner for Agricultural Planning. The project would also support
the establishment of field units in 20 of the counties to be covered by the extension services. One
M&E Assistant would be stationed at each of the 20 counties under the direction of the Country
Officer. Financing would be provided for consultant services to briefly review the present systems,
identify additional needs, design satisfactory solutions, and develop an implementation plan. Further
details are in paras. 5.14-5.16 and 5.20-5.21 and in Annexes 8a, 8b and 8c. Provision has also been
made for staff training, workshops, and equipment associated with this component. Some new offices
would be constructed and a few existing ones rehabilitated as part of the overall management
improvement program.
(d) Studies (US$0.28 million, including contingencies)
4.18      The project would finance studies relating to project activities. Details on consultancy
requirements are in Annex 2. It is expected that most of these studies would be carried out by local
consultants as indicated in Annex 2. The first study would be aimed at rationalizing the roles and
responsibilities of the various training institutes, colleges and centers under MAAIF and the
development of their curricula. A second study would evaluate the efficiency, merits and impact of
alternative technology transfer mechanisms. The findings of this second study would be an input for
the Mid-Term Review and final assessment of the project for each of which additional provision of
six person months of local consultancies has been made. Provision has also been made for the
design of a follow-on project.
D. Project Costs and Financing
4.19      The total project costs are estimated at US$17.75 million of which about 48 percent or
US$8.52 million is foreign exchange cost. As a proportion of base costs, investment costs amouint to
61 percent and incremental recurrent costs 39 percent. Total contingencies are 18 percent of base
costs, using 1992 prices, with physical and price contingencies accounting for 11 and 7 percent,
respectively. All base costs (local and foreign) were calculated in US dollars, using the exchange rate
of UShl 100 for local costs in June 1992. In accordance with Bank Guidelines, price contingency is
estimated at 3.7 percent for each year over the base costs. On the basis of recent experience, it is
assumed that the effects of a different percentage of domestic inflation would be compensated by
corresponding adjustments in the USh exchange rate. Physical contingencies are estimated at 15
percent for civil works and 10 percent for all other investment and recurrent costs.



- 29 -
4.20     Table 4.1 gives a summary of project costs by component. Additional summary tables on
project costs--by year, by component, and by summary accounts--are presented in Annex la.
Table 4.1 PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Component                    Local      Foreign       Total    % Foreign    % Total
A. Delivery of Extension       4.81           3.28      8.09          41          54
B. Extension Training          2.06           3.08      5.14          60          34
C. Management Systems         0.77            0.77      1.54          50          10
D. Studies                     0.13           0.11      0.24          45           2
TOTAL BASE COSTS               7.77           7.24     15.01          48         100
Physical Contingencies         0.83           0.80      1.63          49          11
Price Contingencies            0.63           0.48      1.11          43           7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            9.23           8.52     17.75          48         118
Proposed Financing Plan
4.21     Of the total project cost of US$17.75 million, the proposed IDA Credit would finance
US$15.79 million and the Government of Uganda US$1.96 million. The IDA Credit would finance
89 percent of total project costs including 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and 81 percent of
local costs, excluding taxes. Of the total IDA contribution, US$5.61 million would finance
incremental recurrent costs on a declining basis. Field operations and demonstrations would be
financed at 100 percent of total costs for the first two years and at 65 percent of local costs thereafter.
Incremental operating costs for project activities at headquarters would be financed at 100 percent for
foreign expenditures and at 65 percent for local expenditures over the project period. These funding
arrangements are necessary to provide some lead time for: (a) the extension service to demonstrate its
impact and win support within MAAIF and the rest of Government for gradual absorption of its
recurrent costs on a guaranteed basis; (b) GOU to implement its Civil Service, budgetary, and
revenue collection reform programs supported by SAC and EFMP; and (c) MAAIF to develop
improved management systems which can respond efficiently to changes in funding flows.



- 30 -
4.22      An advance of US$0.5 million has been provided from the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) in order to eiusure the timely implementation of the project. The advance would finance key
start up activities which need to be initiated before project effectiveness. The Extension Adviser
(para. 4.9), the Procurement Specialist (para 4.24), the Financial Officer (para 4.36), Project
Engineer and the Civil Works consultants (para 4.25), and the Management Specialists (para 5.19)
would be recruited. Three urgently required vehicles, office equipment, computers and furniture
would be purchased. Local training in extension, finance, procurement and management functions
would be initiated. Extension activities would also be started in twelve new counties and operations
in the ongoing pilot districts would be continued.
Table 4.2: PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN BY PROJECT COMPONENT
Component               IDA       GOU        Total             Percent
(US$ million)
A. Delivery of Extension     8.19          1.36         9.55          54
B. Extension Training        5.69         0.41          6.10          34
C. Management Systems        1.63         0.18          1.81           10
D. Studies                   0.28         0.01          0.29           2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          15.79         1.96        17.75          100
(of which taxes)              -           (.222)       (.222)
Table 4.3: PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND LOCAL COSTS
Foreign      Local         Total
(USS million)
IDA             8.52             7.27           15.79
GOU             0.00             1.96            1.96
TOTAL           8.52             9.23           17.75
Procurement
4.23      Table 4.4 summarizes the project elements, their estimated cost, and proposet methods of
procurement.



- 31 -
Table: 4.4 SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million )
Project Elements                            Procuremnent Method
ICB         LCB        Others ^    Total
1. Works                        2.90         0.25                      3.15
(2.48)      (0.16)                    (2.64)
2. Goods                                                               2.18
_________  _________            ~~(2.14)
2.1 Equipment/Tools/             0.88        0.1          0.1 b        1.08
Furniture/Audio            (0.88)       (0.09)       (0.09)       (1.06)
Visual/Computers, etc.
2.2 Vehicles & Spares            1.0          -           0.1 b        1.10
(1.0) A                  (0.08)       (1.08)
3. Consultancies &                                                     5.53
Training                                               -           (5.40)
3.1 Technical Assistance                                 1.95 ¢        1.95
l      (1.90)           (1.90)
3.2 Training,                                            3.58          3.58
Demonstration,                                      (3.50)        (3.50)
Trials, Study Tours
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Incremental Recurrent                                6.89          6.89
Costs                   _                           (5.61)         (5.61)
TOTAL                            4.78         .35       12.62          17.75
(4.36)       (.25)     (11.18)       (15.79)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the proposed
IDA credit.
a Includes US$0.5 million financed under PPP funding.
b Procurement through UN Inter-Agency Procurement Service under PPF funding.
c Services would be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington D.C., August 1981).
4.24      Procurement of works, goods and services, and appointment of consultants would be
carried out by MAAIF in accordance with World Bank Guidelines. MAAIF would develop in-house
expertise for procurement management and contract administration of all ongoing projects. A
procurement specialist would be appointed before credit effectiveness (under the PPF) (para. 7.5(a))



- 32 -
to handls all procurement under the proposed project and provide support to other projects as
necessary. The Terms of Reference (Annex 7b), qualifications, and conditions of service of the
Procurenment Specialist would be satisfactory to IDA (para. 7.3(a)). The expertise developed under
the IDA-financed Agriculture Development Project would be utilized to initiate procurement activities
until the MAAIF procurement division is fully staffed and operational. In the past, procurement
management and some of the procedures of GOU were major bottlenecks in project implementation.
These procedures were reviewed and addressed satisfactorily during the recent (May 1992) Country
Implementation Review (CIR). Remedial measures have been agreed during the CIR. With a view tc
expedite procurement, MAAIF would form a Procurement Committee by March 31, 1993 with
representatives from the Central Tender Board (CTB) secretariat and Ministries of Finance and
Economic Planning and Justice. The Procurement Committee will prepare and clear procurement
documentation with IDA at all stages of the procurement process, according to IDA guidelines and
prior review threshold. The Procurement Committee will, however, seek formal approval of the CTB
before seeking a "no objection" of IDA for award of contract. The Ministry of Lands, Housing and
Urban Development will be involved only for review of overall design and site plans to ensure that
constructions are in conformity with national or town planning requirements. Any further project
requirements will be met through the use of the architect/project engineer appointed by MAAIF who
would be responsible for contract management. The Bank's Sample Bidding and Contract Documents
would be used to develop standard bidding documents for goods, works and consulting services. In
carrying out LCB procurement, adequate bidding time (not less than 30 days) would be allowed. The
bidding documents would provide explicit bid evaluation and award criteria, and foreign firms would
be allowed to participate if they so desire; contracts for goods and works would be awarded under
LCB to the lowest evaluated responsive bidders. Assurances on these arrangements were obtained at
negotiations (paras. 7.3(a) and 7.4(c)).
Civil Works
4.25     Civil Works estimated at US$3.1 million include: (a) construction of new buildings and
staff quarters; and (b) rehabilitation of several existing DFIs, offices and quarters for field extension
workers, country and district level staff, and facilities at Bukalasa Agricultural College. All
engineering, design and construction supervision of these works would be entrusted to consulting
firms to be appointed by MAAIF accoading to IDA guidelines; appointment of tha consultants would
be a condition of disbursement for the Civil Works component (para. 7.4(b). MAAIF would also
engage a Project Engineer for overall review and responsibility of all civil engineering and
supervision aspects on behalf of MAAIF. Major works would be grouped in five convenient
packages based on their location and nature of works estimated at US$0.44 to US$0.637 million each
and these would be procured by ICB. Local eligible contractors may be granted a margin of
preference over foreign contractors up to 7.5 percent according to the Bank guidelines. Minor repairs
and land development works up to an aggregate of US$0.22 million would be procured by LCB in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. A procurement schedule for works is attached
(Annex 7a, Table 1).
Goods
4.26     IDA-financed vehicles (US$1.0 million) would be procured under ICB. However, some
of the vehicles are required urgently for start up activities and would be procured in small quantities
by local shopping procedures through local dealers but not exceeding an aggregate amount of US$0.1
million. The UN's Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) or UNDP may be used by
MAAIF as a source for shopping at economical prices. Field and office equipment (US$0.88 million)



- 33 -
would be grouped in convenient packages of US$100,000 or more and would be procured by ICB.
These include computers and software, audio visual equipment, measuring tapes, rain coats, bags,
typewriters, etc. Eligible domestic manufacturers would receive a margin of preference up to 15
percent or applicable duty, whichever is lower, according to Bank guidelines. Contracts for furnitui
and other small items totalling US$100,000, required over a period of time and locally available at
competitive prices, for which foreign firms would not be interested, would be procured by LCB.
Goods contracts each estimated at US$20,000 ot less, and not exceeding US$100,000 in aggregate
would be procured by local shopping or through IAPSO/UNDP. Most of the equipment would be
procured in the first year under ICB according to the procurement schedule in Annex 7a, Table 2.
GCU has agreed that IDA financed procurement would exclude any price verification by any
surveillance firm although inspection of goods for quality and quantity would be carried out by such
firm.
Consultancies and Training
4.27      A list of major contracts for consultants is in Annex 2. These contracts would be award,
following Bank guidelines, with terms of reference, qualifications and conditions of service
satisfactory to IDA. Training requirements have been identified according to Annexes 4b and Sb. j
part of the Annual Work Program, MAAIF would submit for IDA review and approval annual
training and study tour programs for each of the training courses. These would identify trainees for
each course, period and location of training and study tours, estimated cost, etc as well as an
evaluation of the previous year's training program. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations (paras. 7.4(a) and 7.2(a))
Incremental Recurrent Costs
4.28      Incremental recurrent costs associated with project activities are estimated at US$6.89
million of which IDA would finance about US$5.61. These costs include the additional vehicle
operating costs, building and equipment maintenance, office and field supplies, travelling allowances
and performance allowances for field and headquarters staff, arising from the project activities. The
relative annual shares of IDA and GOU in the financing of the incremental recurrent costs are showi
in table 6.1. These costs are in addition to the present annual expenditures of US$1.0 million by
GOU for extension and other agricultural activities in the 16 districts under the project. Consistent
with its general pc licy in all donor financed projects, GOU has agreed with IDA that pending the
implementation of the overall civil service reform program, staff belonging to the civil service and
directly involved in IDA-financed projects would be eligible to receive incentive payments. The
payments would be based on satisfactory performance and would be in accordance with the guideline
providing for a "minimum living wage", which were agreed upon after discussion with all major
donors and issued by the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development with a cover letter
addressed to the World Bank, dated December 5, 1991. Staff recruited on fixed term contracts wou
be eligible for remuneration up to the amount specified in the letter from the Permanent Secretary ol
MFEP to the office of the Prime Minister, Reference No. ED/C/832, dated January 8, 1992.
Procurement Review by IDA
4.29      All contracts for works, and contracts for goods estimated at US$100,000 cr more, woul,
be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. This would cover about 95 percent of the total value
procured. Selected post review of 1 in 5 contracts below the above threshold would take place durir



- 34 -
project supervision missions. All contracts for consultants would be subject to IDA's prior review at
each stage of implementation.
Contract Reporting
4.30       Procurement information would be reported to IDA by MAAIF every 6 months, as part of
the progress reports, giving the status of contracts awarded in the past and balance of procurement
along with updated cost estimates and plans for future procurement.
E. Disbursement
4.31       The IDA Credit of US$15.79 million is expected to be effective on January 1, 1993. It
has been designed as a four-year first-phase project for developing natic -  extension services, but in
order to take into account the historical disbursement experience in Uganda the completion date has
been set at December 31, 1997 and the closing date at June 30, 1998. The Credit would thus be
disbursed over six years, including PPF disbursements in FY93. The disbursement schedule is
provided in Annex lb; it is shorter than the historical profile of nine years for agriculture and rural
development projects in Uganda. The six year disbursement period is considered realistic because:
(a) the departments responsible for implementing the project are firmly in place; (b) MAAIF has
acquired experience in the implementation of unified extension under the pilot project; (c) an
Extension Adviser and a Local Training Specialist have been appointed under the PPF and
recruitment procedures are under way for the Financial Officer and Procurement Specialist; and (d)
the proposed PPF would also facilitate speeding up procurement and civil works construction. Most
of the vehicles and equipment would be procured in the first year and the civil works would be
completed in the second year of the project.
Table 4.5: SUMMARY DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Category            Amount of Credit    % of Expenditures to be Financed
(US$ milon)
Civil works                       2.38           100% of foreign and 60% of local
Vehicles and Equipment            1.86           100% of foreign and 85% of loca:
Technical Assistance              1.50           100% of foreign and 95% of local
Training                          2.48           100% of foreign and local
Demonstrations and Field Trials   0.63           100% of foreign, 100% of local up to December 31,
l ___________________________                     1994  and  65%   of local thereafter
Incremental Recurrent Costs:
(a) Field Operations              4.58           100% of foreign, 100% of local up to December31,
1994 and 65% of local thereafter
(b) Non-Field Oserations          0.36           100% of foreign and 65% of local
Refund of PPF Advance             0.50           Amount due
Sub-total                         14.29
Unallocated                       1.50
TOTAL                             15.79



- 35 -
4.32     In order to facilitate project implementation and to reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, MAAIF would open a Special Account for the project with a commercial bank on term
and conditions acceptable to IDA. This account would be operated by MAAIF. The initial deposit
into this account out of the IDA Credit proceeds would be US$0.5 million to cover eligible
expenditures for about three months. Withdrawals from this account would be replenished accordin
to established IDA disbursement procedures.
4.33     Replenishment requests would be submitted monthly. Each request would be fully
documented, except for incremental recurrent expenditures and for contracts of less than US$20,000
or equivalent, which would be made under the IDA procedures covering Statements of Expenditure
(SOE). All supporting documents, including the separation of incremental operating costs into field
and nonfield activities, would be retained by MAAIF and made readily available for review by IDA
supervision missions and external auditors.
4.34     Wherever possible, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of not less
than US$50,000. MAAIF would be responsible for the preparation and submission of withdrawal
applications.
4.35     MAAIF would establish, before credit effectiveness, a separate project account with a
local commercial bank to receive GOU contributions on a quarterly basis. Assurances on these
arrangements were obtained at negotiations (para 7.4(f) and 7.5 (b)).
F. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting
4.36     In accordance with the overall management concept of the project (para. 5.1), the Financ
and Accounts Unit (FAU) would form part of the regular accounting department of MAAIF which
would be strengthened under the project. Details on the FAU and the financial and accounting
systems of the project are in Annex 6a. A comprehensive Financial and Accounting Manual for the
project has been prepared and discussed with MAAIF staff. Accounting and financial capacity in
MAAIF is presently constrained by incentive problems and other personnel policies (Annex 6a). It
has therefore been agreed that a qualified Financial Officer would be recruited locally before credit
effectiveness (para. 7.5(a)) under PPF funding to head the FAU, with qualifications and terms of
reference (Annex 6b) satisfactory to IDA (para. 7.3(a)). At the Mid-Term Review of the project or
earlier depending on the progress with the ongoing civil service reform program, it would be decided
if this position should be incorporated into the regular establishment of MAAIF.
4.37     The accounts of the project would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
IDA. The audited accounts would comprise: the auditors' report on the statements of account,
Special Account and SOEs; the signed statements account, namely, balance sheet, operating
expenditure statement and source and application of funds; and a long form report. The auditors'
report, together with the above documents, would be submitted to IDA within nine months of the en4
of the GOU fiscal year in the first year of the project and within six months in subsequent years.
Quarterly financial progress reports and semi-annual progress reports would be submitted to the IDA
within thirty days of the end of each reporting period.
4.38     An Annual Work Program incorporating the DAPs (para. 4.7), annual training program (
4.27) budget, and other agreed project details would be prepared and submitted to IDA for comments
approval by November 1 of the preceding year. Submission of a satisfactory Annual Work Program



- 36 -
first year would be a condition of effectiveness. Assurances on these arrangements were obtained (paras.
7.1(c), 7.4(g) and 7.5 (c)).
V. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Overall Arrangements
5.1      The project would be integrated into the regular organizational framework of MAAIF which is
being strengthened under the project, a separate project implementation or coordination unit would not be
created. The Permanent Secretary of MAAIF, assisted by the Directors of Agriculture and Animal
Resources, would be responsible for coordination and overall management of the project. The Director of
Agriculture would be responsible for the supervision of the extension program which would be implementu
by the Heads of the Departments of Extension, and Training and Information (chart 1). The Department c
Agricultural Planning would implement the M&E activities and coordinate the various assessment studies
under the overall direction of the Director of Agriculture. The Department of Agricultural Planning woulc
also be responsible for coordinating the preparation of a follow-on project and be closely involved in the
design of improved management information systems. The Permanent Secretary would be directly
responsible for the implementation of the components relating to the strengthening of management systems
5.2        The management processes linking these various departments would be strengthened. A
management information and monitoring system would be put in place (para. 5.20 and Annex 8a) to assist
the efficient functioning of the various management committees of MAAIF (Annex 5a). At the highest lev
is the Policy Committee, chaired by the Minister, with the PS and all department heads as members. This
committee meets weekly and would be provided with up to date reports in brief standardized formats on
matters requiring its attenti ,n, and progress on previous decisions which had been taken. This committee
would review the Annual Work Programs and progress reports of the project. Coordination and policy issi
highlighted in the progress reports would be resolved by this committee. The Finance Committee, chaired
the Deputy Minister and comprising all department heads, meets monthly to plan the budget and allocate
financial resources. Matters relating to the budget and release of funds for the project would be dealt with
this committee. Bottlenecks and any other issues in these matters would be flagged in the MIS (para 5.21)
Preparation of the budget and other accounting functions would be carried out by the locally recruited
Financial Officer (para. 4.36).
5.3       Procurement systems would be strengthened through the appointment of a locally recruited
Procurement Specialist and the streamlined procuremient arrangements agreed upon (para 4.24 and 4.25). i
Procurement Committee would be set up as described in para 4.24 and Annex 5a. Bottlenecks and issues in
p- curement would also be flagged in the MIS. Coordination within MAAIF at the technical level would b
handled through the proposed Senior Officers Committee (Annex 8a) to be chaired by the Director of
Agriculture and comprising all directors/commissioners as members. For the AEP this committee would
review the consolidated M&E reports and deal with coordination issues identified in the field. Further deta
on the implementation arrangements for the major components of the project are described below.
B. Extension Arrangements
5.4      MAAIF has recently issued (March 1992) an organizational Chart (shown in Chart 1) for the
proposed unified extension system. A Director of Agriculture was appointed to coordinate the activities of
the Departments of Extension, Training and Information, Development and Agricultural Planning. At the



- 37 -
field level frontline staff of the previous agriculture, veterinary and fisheries departments would be pooled to
provide unified extension in crops, animal husbandry and fisheries. Staff presently engaged in managing dips
and other purely veterinary activities would continue these independently and would not be pooled for
extension purposes.
Extension Organization and Management
5.5       The principles of the Training and Visit (T&V) system of management of extension would be
followed with r..,pect to the organization of the extension service and the regularity of training, supervision,
and farmer visits. The Field Extension Worker (FEW) would be the first point of contact with farmers and
would operate through contact groups of farmers.
5.6       The first level of supervision would be at the county. Some technical disciplines (crops, livestock,
and fisheries) are represented at this level. MAAIF proposes to appoint a county extension coordinator, who
would be selected from among the representatives of disciplines at this level. The coordinator positions
wcould be promotional appointments and the criteria and process would be transparent at all levels. Assistance
would be obtained from MTAC under the Management Development Program (para. 5.19) in establishing the
criteria for selection and the steps to be followed to ensure that the process is transparent.
5.7       At the district level, an extension coordinator would be selected under similar conditions, who
would be responsible for the overall management of the extension system in the district. An assurance on
these arrangements was obtained at negotiations (para. 7. 1(d)). The district officers of the various technical
disciplines would be the subject matter specialists (SMSs) of the extension system. The District Farm
Institutes (DFIs) would play a key role in the implementation of the various elements of the project in the
district and the principal of the DFI would be responsible to the extension coordinator.
5.8       The FEWs and the first level supervisory team at the county level would visit the designated
farmer groups regularly, and would be trained by the district team of SMSs at the DFI once each month or
fortnightly, depending on need.
5.9       Suitable farmers and representatives from NGOs involved in extension would be selected to
participate along with the FEWs in the monthly/fortnightly training on a pilot basis. MAAIF has also agreed
to explore and test, where possible, other mechanisms for beneficiary participation in the delivery of
extension and its cost sharing. The relative merits of these alternative mechanisms would be assessed at the
Mid-Term Review. Assurances on these arrangements were obtained at negotiations (para. 7.1(e)).
Research-Extension Linkages
5.10      SMS Workshops. It was agreed that pre-seasonal workshops of SMSs would be held at the
designated res.arch center. There would be monthly follow-up workshop during the season which would be
held at the DFI or designated research center. The details of these workshops would be incorporated in the
extension work program for the district.
5.11      Joint Field Visits. Researchers and the extension SMSs would undertake joint field visits to
diagnose farmers' problems and priorities. Such visits would be included in the extension work program for
the district and financed under the extension budget. Agreement to these arrangements was obtained at
negotiations (para. 7.1(f)).



- 38 -
5.12      Stages of Technology Development. The three distinct stages of technology development--on
station research, adaptive research at the DFIs and on-farm trials--would be designed to be mutually re-
enforcing, with the results of each level feeding into the others. The program of the DFI adaptive resea
and the on-farm trials would be jointly planned by research and extension during the pre-seasonal works
The SMSs would be responsible for the adaptive research at the DFIs and the on-farm trials. The result
these experiments would be discussed at the SMS workshops and would be taken into consideration whil
finalizing the next year's research and trials program and the formulation of extension recommendations
researchers would visit the adaptive research, demonstration, and on-farm trial sites to provide technical
guidance.
5.13      National Level. The linkage between research and extension at the national level would be
achieved by making the Directors of Agriculture and Animal Resources members of the Board of the
proposed NARO. This arrangemen' would be re-enforced by a Research-Extension Linkage Committee
(RELC), to be set up before March 31, 1993, at the national level whose membership would include the
Directors of Agriculture and Animal Resources, relevant Department Heads, Heads of the NARO resear
centers,and the Deans of the Faculties of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine of the Makerere Universi
Assurances on these arrangements were obtained at negotiations (paras. 7. 1(g) and (h)).
Monitoring of the Implementation of the Extension Program
5.14      An operational Monitoring and Evaluation system would be implemented to provide project
management with current information and the operations of th,e extension program and also on the
effectiveness. The M&E would be located within the Economic Planning Department of MAAIF. The ,
would be headed by a senior officer and would have a deputy head and two support staff. The M&E Ur
would assign an officer at the district level and an investigator in selected counties. This unit would be
responsible for both operational current information on the extension program as well as the evaluation c
impact of the program. The M&E Unit would also be responsible for building a data base and servicink
information requirements of the MAAIF management as well as IDA.
5.15      It is proposed to monitor the implementation of the extension program through brief standard
reports from staff, starting with the FEWs and with consolidation at each level of management. Indicati'
standardized formats for each level of reporting already exist or have been prepared and are in the Proje,
File. The levels of data recording and type of data collected are described in Annexes 8a and 8b. An
attempt would be made to monitor the relative efficiency of the different extension delivery mechanisms.
5.16     The M&E Unit would compile the benchmark data for the project area from the agricultural
census which has just been conducted by MAAIF. The M&E Unit would also conduct an Impact and
Evaluation Survey at the end of each season. The main focus of the survey will be on arriving at the
adoption rates and also the re-adoption rates. It would also try to ascertain reasons for non adoptions so
appropriate changes in the strategy may be made in the next season.
C. Arrangements for Improvements in Training Capacity and Skills
5.17      The District Farm Institutes (DFIs) would play a key role in the implementation of the traini
program for field extension staff and farmers. The Principal of the DFI would report to the Extension
Coordinator and would: (a) arrange for the monthly/fortnightly training of the field extension staff; (b)
organize periodic training programs for farmers, extension staff, and staff of other departments as per the



- 39 -
agreed work program; (c) provide the needed facilities for the implementation of the adaptive trial program;
and (d) provide audio-visual support to field extension and training activities
5.18     Assistance would be sought from Makerere University, which would be strengthened under the
ARTP, for the curriculum development program for Bukalasa Agricultural College (para. 4.12). MAAIF
would enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Makerere University on the scope and
implementation of the program. The MOU would be finalized before March 31, 1993 and would be
satisfactory to IDA (para. 7.2(b)). An assurance was also obtained that MAAIF would make arrangements
for suitably qualified fee-paying students to attend Bukalasa and other colleges of MAAIF as practiced in the
past (para. 7.2(c)).
D. Management Arrangements
5.19     The Management Development Program (para. 4.15 and Annex 5b) would be carried out with
assistance from the Management Training and Advisory Center (MTAC). MTAC is an autonomous parastatal
agency which has carried out management training for MAAIF in the past and has the capacity to carry out
the envisaged program. The materials for the training courses would be based on a brief diagnosis of the
existing management systems and constraints of MAAIF and a management improvement plan which would
be refined on the basis of experiences as the courses are implemented and from feedback from participants.
The capability of MTAC would be enhanced through provisions under the project for 6 person months of
technical assistance from a well established international management institute. MAAIF would enter into a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with MTAC for the implementation of the program. The MOU
would be satisfactory to IDA and would be finalized before March 31, 1993. The terms of reference for
MTAC and the short term international TA are in Annex 5c. Agreement on these arrangements was obtained
at negotiations (paras. 7.3 (c) and 7.3(d))
Management Information System
5.20     The above-mentioned Monitoring and Evaluation system (para. 5.14) would provide the main data
base for the MIS. An appropriate management information system would be set up at the headquarters where
the information and data would be processed and reported in a simple format (designed differently for each
level of officers) and with the frequency which matches the needs for decision making.
5.21     A rmonitoring system would also be implemented at headquarters to track elapsed time and
bottlenecks in financial, budgetary, and procurement procedures. The M&E Unit would consolidate the
monitoring reports from the districts with those on procedures and the implementation of the management
development program. The reports would be submitted to the Director of Agriculture for further
management action if necessary. An assurance was obtained that the system would be operational by March
31, 1993 (para. 7.3(b)).
Mid-Term and Completion Reviews
5.22     The progress and impact of the project would be jointly reviewed by MAAIF and IDA, not later
than March 31, 1995. In order to facilitate this review, the M&E Unit with assistance from local consultants
would prepare a mid-term report on the project by December 31, 1994 (para. 7.4 (d)). The review would
evaluate: (a) the effectiveness of the unified extension system; (b) depth and coverage of the extension
service; (c) its impact on agricultural production and target beneficiaries; (d) progress towards increased
beneficiary participation in delivery and funding of extension; (e) effectiveness of the research/extension



- 40 -
linkages; (f) the effectiveness of the adaptive on-farm research trials; (g) the relative merits of the altei
extension delivery mechanisms; (h) regularity and effectiveness of frontline staff training and SMS
workshops; (i) the experience of contacting farmers as groups; and 0) need, if any, for organizational
to adjust to the decentralized management of public services. The key indicators in assessing impact fc
mid-term review are outlined in Annex 8b. In addition, the mid-term review would critically examine
adequacy of Government support in counterpart funding, particularly incremental recurrent costs; and i
potential and capacity to implement a full-scale national extension project. GOU and IDA would consi
changes in the project as a result of the mid-term review. Assurances were obtained at negotiations thu
review would be implemented before March 31, 1995 under terms of reference acceptable to IDA (par
7.4(e)). A joint review would also be carried out upon completion of the project.
Implementation Schedule and Supervision
5.23      Detailed implementation schedules for procurement are in Annex 7a, and--for other project
activities--in Annex 9 along with the project supervision plan. Project supervision would be closely lini
the implementation schedule. A number of start-up actions are expected to be carried out under PPF fi
and these would be supervised along with the pilot extension program under ASAC. A project launch
mission is planned about two months before effectiveness to initiate actions on project covenants and to
review: (a) progress on procurement, (b) the first draft annual work program and pre-season activities,
training program and (d) the status of research/extension linkages. There would also be three supervisi
missions during the first year of the project, when the project may be faced with start-up problems.
Subsequent supervision missions would take place semi-annually. One of the semi-annual supervision
missions would be timed during September or early October to review with project staff the draft annua
program and budget for the next year. Key indicators of the project, shown in Annex 8b, would be
incorporated into the quarterly progress reports. The targets of the key indicators were discussed and a
upon during negotiations (para. 7.3(e)). These would include targets for adoption rates by type of
technology. In addition to the indicators of financial and physical progress, which are related to the
implementation and disbursement schedules and to the detailed cost tables, supervision would assess pra
on the quality of the extension service, the pre-service and in-service staff training programs and effecti
of the research/extension linkages and the impact of the project. The Planning Department of MAAIF
M&E Unit would play a key role in these supervision activities.
E. Actions for Women and Young Farmers
5.24      The issues facing women farmers are discussed in paras. 3.36 to 3.42. The Project would i
the following interventions and initiatives to address the problems identified.
(a)   Diagnostic Surveys. The diagnostic surveys which would be conducted in each new
district (para. 4.7) would include questions on the roles, decision making patterns anm
technological gaps pertaining to rural women and young farmers in those areas.
(b)   Formation of Special Women and Young Farmer Target Groups. While the womi
young farmers would be included in general groups; special groups would also be for
to give attention to their specific needs.
(c)   Increasing the Number of Female Extension Workers. Even in areas where there
restrictions on male/female contact, communication with female farmers is generally



- 41 -
enhanced when female extension agents are used. Therefore the following actions would
be initiated:
-   Increasing the enrollment of girls in agricultural colleges so that future extension
requirements could be met through trained staff.
-   Redeploying and retraining of female agents already working with rural women in
subjects such as Home Economics.
-   Appointing SMSs at District level, and if possible at County level to specially address
the problems of women and youth.
(d)   Improving the Contact and Communication between Extension Agents and Female
Farmers. Male extension agents would be trained to work with mixed groups and special
women target groups, orientation and in-service programs would be conducted for male
extension agents on the specific technologies and methodologies of working with women
target groups.
(e)   Improving the Appropriateness of the Messages and Technology for Women and
Young Farmers
This initiative would be implemented by:
-   Identifying the infrastructure and technology needed for women and young farmers
based on the diagnostic surveys.
-   Developing the suitable linkages with the research institutions to ensure that the
research age.nda covers farming activities of women and that technologies are
developed to meet the needs of women farmers.
-   Improving available tools and machines and designing tools and machines suitable to
remove drudgery of rural women.
(f)   Organizing Special Training Programs for Rural Women and Young Farmers
This initiative would be met by mobilizing and giving training to selected women and
young farmers groups on:
-   Identified skills relating to agricultural practices performed by women.
-   Special economic activities such as bee-keeping, mushroom cultivation, fish farming,
agro-forestry, vegetable gardening, and sericulture, which have high returns and are
particularly amenable to women or group management.
-   Post harvest technology, processing of foods, nutrition, environment protection, home
management and health practices.
5.25     Women and young farmer groups would be given equal opportunities and encouraged to
participate in field days, study tours and competitions to enhance their knowledge and skills as well as to
motivate them to participate in the project. During this process, this project would coordinate with the other
special donor and non government agency projects serving rural women and young farmers.



- 42 -
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.1       The project is expected to have a significant impact on human resource and institutional
development in the agricultural sector. The project devotes considerable resources to both training and the
development of systems and processes for transferring technology to agricultural producers. The project
would greatly enhance the skills and capabilities of about 1,000 staff at all levels in various disciplines
including extension methods, management, and priority technical fields. Institutional training capacity would
be improved at Bukalasa Agricultural College, at the DFIs, and at the Management Training and Advisory
Center. The skills of farmers in current practices and new technologies would be considerably improved
through direct training and demonstrations.
6.2       The diffusion of improved technologies in the selected districts under the project would help
generate substantial increases in food production which would improve the nutrition and standard of living of
a large number of rural families. On the basis of experience within Uganda and elsewhere in Africa, it is
expected that the extension services would reach about 60 percent of the 1.2 million farm families living in
the project area and that at least half of those reached would adopt some improved practices which would lead
to increased yields and production.
6.3       Women farmers would benefit not only from improved production technologies and implements
but elso from technologies for improving food processing and preparation, as well as from labor and energy
saving technologies. Emphasis would be placed on nutrition programs and income generating activities for
women. Special training in these and other areas would be provided for women. Measures would also be
implemented to increase the numbers of women entering Bukalasa Agricultural College and the extension
services.
6.4       The project addresses poverty directly and indirectly. It is focussed mainly on small farmers who
are presently producing at subsistence levels as a result of the breakdown of the economy. Since small
farmers constitute the major producing sector of the economy, their increased production would increase food
availability for the urban poor, as well as export and tax revenues for financing social services.
B. Economic Justification
6.5      It is difficult to quantify the benefits attributable to extension services. The adoption of new
practices and innovations depends on many factors, of which extension is just one. Other factors of
importance include prices of inputs and output, accessibility of markets and credit and assessment of risk by
farmers. Despite difficulties with causality, Bank reviews of agricultural extension programs have concluded
that extension in a number of countries has been a high pay-off investment. Based on these experiences as
well as previous experiences with extension in Uganda, it is clear that in the present situation in Uganda, a
well-planned and implemented extension program can play a catalytic role in the adoption of technologies to
stem the spread of disease as well as improve productivity.
6.6       An attempt has been made to justify the proposed levels of expenditures for extension in relation
to the potential benefits, using a simplified analysis. The details are in Annex 10. Based on experiences with
extension as discussed above, it is expected that project coverage of farm families would increase from about
30 percent in the first year to 60 percent by year 4. The adoption rate among farmers reached is expected to



- 43 -
increase from about 40 percent to about 55 percent in the last year, so that by the fourth year about 33
percent of the farmers in the project area (390,000 farm families) would be adopting some improved
practices. The agricultural GDP in the project area is conservatively estimated at about US$800 million (for
1.2 million families) and at about US$260 million for the adopting families (33 percent). A small increase of
only 1.2 percent in the net output of these families (eight dollars/family) would be sufficient to generate an
economic Internal Rate of Return of 15 percent on project expenditures, including recurrent expenditures in
the post-implementation period. This level of increase is feasible and the proposed levels of expenditure are
therefore justifiable.
C. Sustainability and Financial Implications for Government
6.7      The institutional sustainability of the project is assured through the strong emphasis on human
resource development and the attention given to development of management capacity and processes. The
scope of the project has also been designed to take into account both the financial and management capacity
of MAAIF. Local expertise would also be used extensively in implementation of the project. International
recruitment would be necessary for only one long term TA position, the Extension Services Adviser, and for
short term expertise in a few highly specialized areas.
6.8      The greatest threat to project sustainability is likely to be the availability of local resources to
maintain the extension services as well as those currently being designed for research. Given the state of the
Ugandan economy, GOU would need about ten to fifteen years to be able to expand its revenue base
sufficiently to absorb the recurrent costs of full-fledged national extension services. The rate of expansion of
extension services would therefore be gradual and directly linked to the availability of funding for operational
costs from domestic and donor sources. Measures have also been included in project design to increase
beneficiary participation in the delivery and funding of extension through community groups and NGOs.
Financial Implications
6.9      The project would require GOU to contribute US$1.96 million from its own budgetary resources
over four years, including taxes of about US$0.22 million. Thus, the net contribution of the GOU would be
only US$1.74 million over four years. For FY91/92, the budgetary allocation for MAAIF was equivalent to
about US$10.5 million (US$6.7 million for recurrent expenditure, US$1.2 million for capital expenditure
and US$2.6 million for donor assisted projects). The incremental recurrent costs resulting from the project
are given in Table 6.1. Present annual expenditures are about US$ 1.0 million for agricultural activities in
the sixteen districts under the project.
Table 6.1: PHASING OF INCREMENTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
(US$ million)
Project Year              PY1       PY2        PY3        PY4       Total
Calendar Year            1993       1994       1995       1996
IDA                      1.45       1.62       1.24       1.29      5.60
GOU                      0.05       0.06      0.58        0.60      1.29
TOTAL                    1.50       1.68       1.82       1.89      6.89



-44 -
D. Project Risks
6.10     The project is subject to institutional, financial and macroeconomic risks. Safeguards against
Institutional and financial risks have been included in project design. Considerable resources would be
devoted under the project to human resource development and the strengthening of management capacity ar
processes. Training would be provided in technical areas as well as in management, finance, and
procurement. A management information system would be put in place and the operations of the managem
and procurement committees would be improved. Financial and procurement specialists would be recruited
locally and it is expected that they would be absorbed into the regular establishment of MAAIF when the
civil service reform program is completed. Risks of delays and dilution of focus on project objectives wou
be addressed through dated action plans and through regular monitoring of tangible benchmarks of operatio
improvements and effectiveness of research/extension linkages. Financial risks would be minimized throug
the phased approach, local cost financing by IDA and testing of beneficiary participation in the delivery an(
funding of extension. Rationalization of government expenditures is being pursued through structural
adjustment operations and annual public expenditure reviews. The macroeconomic risks are being addresse
by the adjustment operations (SAC and ASAC) which are aimed at ensuring that unfavorable market prices
and lack of inputs are not constraining farmers' incentives to apply new technology.
E. Environmental Impact
6.11     The project is expected to have a beneficial impact on the environment. Extension messages
would include focus on: proper husbandry and soil management practices; crop rotation; education of farm(
on effects of uncontrolled erosion; integrated pest management practices including use of biological control
methods combined with judicious use of chemical pesticides through the use of indicators of the economic
threshold level (of pests). Agro-forestry is being supported under the pilot and would be continued under t
project. Improved livestock management practices would also be promoted including zero-grazing were
appropriate. Further details on the environmentally oriented extension messages are in Annex 3a. There a
no major environmental issues in the project which is classified as Category B. Potential issues of increase
soil erosion as a result of intensive cultivation, and of increased use of chemical fertilizers and other
chemicals would be addressed under the project. Bank guidelines on pesticides will be followed, including
clearance procedures for procurement of chemicals. A National Environmental Action Plan for Uganda is
being prepared with assistance from IDA (para. 1.16).
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreemnents and Assurances Obtained
7.1      Assurances on Strengthening of Extension Delivery
(a)  The Department of Extension would prepare for each new district, a district action plan
based on brief diagnostic surveys of farmer problems. The district action plan (DAP) a
diagnostic surveys would also cover the special needs of women and young farmers in tl
area (para. 4.7);
(b) The qualifications, conditions of service ar,d terms of reference of the Extension Advise]
(para. 4.9) would be satisfactory to IDA;



- 45 -
(c)   Annual work programs and budgets based on the cropping year and incorporating the
DAPs and other project activities would be submitted to IDA for comments and appro
by November I of the preceding year (para. 4.38);
(d)  Extension coordinators would be appointed at county and district levels as proposed
(paras. 5.6 and 5.7);
(e)   Alternative extension delivery mechanisms would be tested and evaluated at the Mid-i
Review (para. 5.9);
(f)   The training workshops and joint field visits of research and extension staff would be
implemented as proposed (paras. 5.10 and 5.11);
(g) The Directors of Agriculture and Animal Resources would be members of the Board c
NARO (para. 5.13); and
(h) A Research-Extension Linkage Committee (RELC) would be established before March
1993 with membership as proposed (para. 5.13).
7.2      Assurances on Improvements in Training Capacity and Skills
(a)   Prior approval would be obtained from IDA on training courses, institutes and candidat
selected (para. 4.10 and 4.27);
(b)   MAAIF and Makerere University would enter into a Memorandum of Understanding
satisfactory to IDA before March 31, 1993, for the design and implementation of the
curriculum development program for Bukalasa Agricultural College (para. 5.18); and
(c)   Arrangements would be made for qualified fee-paying students to attend Bukalasa and c
agricultural colleges (para. 5.18).
7.3      Assurances on Management Improvements
(a)   A Procurement Specialist and a Financial Officer would be recruited locally with terms
reference, qualifications and conditions of service satisfactory to IDA (paras. 4.24 and
4.36);
(b)   A monitoring system would be put inplace by March 31, 1993 to monitor the extension
program and track elapsed time and bottlenecks in financial, budgetary and procuremeni
procedures (paras 5.14 and 5.21);
(c)   The management development plan agreed upon would be implemented at HQ and distri
levels (5.19);
(d)   MAAIF would enter into a Memprandum of Understanding, satisfactory to IDA, before
March 31, 1993 with the Management Training and Advisory Center for the design and
implementation of the management training and development program (5.19); and



-46-
(e)   Th agreed targets for key Indicators of project Implementation and impact would be
monitored (para. 5.23).
7.4       Assurances on Procurement, Consultancy Services, Studies and Reporting
(a)   Procurement of works, goods and services, and appointment of consultants would be in
accordance with Bank Guidelines (para. 4.24 to 4.26). The terms of reference,
qualiflcations and conditions of service of all consultants recruited under the project wou
be satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.27);
(b)   Consultants would be recruited to complete designs and drawings and later supervise
construction of the Civil Works component; appointment of the consultants would be a
condition of disbursement for the Civil Works component (para. 4.25);
(c)   MAAIF would create a Procurement Committee as proposed before March 31, 1993 and
make appropriate arrangements on clearances, approvals etc., to ensure timely completic
of the Civil Works component (para. 4.24);
(d)   An assessment of the project would be carried out before December 31, 1994 by the Ms
Unit and consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.22);
(e)   Upon completion of the above assessment, GOU and IDA would carry out a joint Mid-
Term Review of the project, before March 31, 1995, under agreed terms of reference an
determine if a follow-on project is justified (para. 5.22);
(f)   Disbursement arrangements would be satisfactory to IDA; a Special Account would be
opened at a commercial bank (para. 4.32); SOEs would be subject to external audit and
IDA review (para. 4.33) and a project account would be opened for GOU contributions
(para 4.35) and;
(g)   Accounting, auditing and reporting arrangements would be satisfactory to IDA (para.
4.37).
7.5       Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a)   Appointment of the Extension Adviser (para. 4.9), the Procurement Specialist (para 4.24
and the Financial Officer (para 4.36); and
(b)   Opening of the Project Account (para. 4.35).
(c)   Submission of a satisfactory Annual Work Program for the first year of operation (para
4.38).
B. Recommendation
7.6       Based on the above conditions and agreements, the project is suitable for a credit to the Republii
of Uganda of SDR 11.0 million (USS15.79 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturii



U-
AGRICUL1URAL EXTENSIOR PROJECT
Smry Accomt by Project C_unt
usm (U)
DELIVERY                                                  Physical           Price
OF     EXTENUIO    NAGENE                            Continguicies      ContinhencIes
EXTENSIO      N        NT          --.- T                   ................i .-._
N     TRAINING   SYSTENS   STUIES       Totat        X     Amount       X   Anount
1. INVESTUNT COSTS
....................
A. CIVIL WORKS                        1.464     0.780      0.350     0.000     2.594    15.000      0.389   6.378      0.165
B. VENICLES AND EWJIPNENT             1.206     0.474      0.250     0.000      1.930    10.000     0.193   2.845      0.055
C. TECH.ASSISTANCE (FOREIGN)          0.450     0.214      0.135     0.000     0.799    10.000      0.080   6.536     0.052
D. TECH.ASSISTANCE (LOCAL)            0.232     0.097      0.327     0.210     0.866    10.000      0.087   7.700      0.067
E. TRAINING (FOREIGN)                 0.000     0.586      0.061     0.000     0.648    10.000      0.065   8.7m       0.057
F. TRAINING (LOCAL)                   0.000     1.645      0.070     0.000     1.715    10.000      0.171   8.580     0.147
G. DENOS. & FlELD TRIALS              0.000     0.650      0.000     0.000     0.650    10.000      0.065   9.268     0.060
.. ......................... ......................................................... .. ........................ .......................... ........ .
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                3.352     4.446      1.193     0.210     9.201    11.409      1.050   6.558     0.603
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. PERSONNEL OMSTS FIELD OPS          3.054     0.309      0.107     0.000     3.470    10.000      0.347   8.605     0.299                                            *
S. REP. & NTCE. FIELD OPS.            1.454     0.290      0.048     0.000     1.792    10.000      0.179   8.694     0.156
C. PERS.COSTS OTHER OPS.              0.236     0.092      0.071     0.000     0.398    10.000      0.040   8.408     0.033
D. REP.& NTCE. OTHER OPS.             0.000     0.000      0.120     0.030     0.150    10.000      0.015   8.974     0.013
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 4.744     0.691      0.346     0.030     5.811    10.000      0.581   8.629     0.501
Total BASELINE COSTS                  8.096     5.137      1.539     0.240    15.012    10.864      1.631   7.359      1.105
PhpsicaL Contingencies              0.883     0.553      0.171     0.024     1.631
Price Contingoecies                 0.575     0.407      0.098     0.025     1.105     9.683      0.107
.    ..... ............. ................................ ............................... .............. _...
TotaL PROJECT COSTS                   9.554     6.097      1.808     0.289    17.748      9.?92     1.738   6.225      1.105
Tangs                               0.102     0.070      0.040     0.009     0.222    11.893      0.026
Foreign Excae                       3.844     3.655      0.895     0.130     8.524     9.967      0.850
~~~.. .... .... ... ...._. . ... ....... ......... .. .. ...... ......... ..... ......... ... .... ... .... ....................
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 6/29/1992 16:59
0 W



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
USS (M)
Suary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                            Foreign Exchange
...............................................................    ------------------
1993      1994      1995      1996     Total        X    Amount
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                      0.081     2.493     0.010     0.010     2.594      60.(UO   1.556
B. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT           1.616     0.274     0.020     0.020     1.930      90.000   1.737
C. TECH.ASSISTANCE (FOREIGN)        0.253     0.280     0.223     0.043     0.799     100.000  0.799
D.  TECH.ASSISTANCE (LOCAL)         0.229    0.241      0.270     0.126    0.866       10.397  0.090
E.  TRAINING (FOREIGN)              0.090     0.198     0.248     0.112     0.648     100.000  0.648
F.  TRAINING (LOCAL)                0.262     0.567     0.572     0.313     1.715      50.000  0.857
G.  DEMOS. & FIELD TRIALS           0.130     0.130     0.195     0.195     0.650      60.000   0.390
....................... ............................... ................................... ..................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              2.661     4.183     1.538     0.819    9.201       66.053  6.078
II. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
H. PERSONNEL COSTS FIELD OPS        0.783     0.901     0.893     0.393    3.470        0.000   0.000
1.  REP. & NTCE. FIELD OPS.         0.425     0.412     0.470     0.485     1.792      60.000   1.075                                                           I
J. PERS.COSTS OTHER OPS.            0.100     0.100    0.100      0.100    0.398        0.000  0.000                                                            00
K.  REP.& MTCE. OTHER OPS.          0.030     0.035     0.045     0.040     0.150      60.000  0.090                                                             1
Total RECURRENT COSTS               1.338     1.448     1.508     1.518    5.811       20.060   1.166
Total BASELINE COSTS                3.999     5.630     3.046     2.337    15.012      48.249  7.243
Physical Contingencies           0.404     0.688    0.305      0.234     1.631      49.184  0.802
Price Contingencies              0.081     0.355     0.319     0.349     1.105      43.306  0.478
Total PROJECT COSTS                 4.484     6.673     3.670     2.921    17.748      48.027  8.524
Taxes                            0.021     0.169     0.017     0.014     0.222       0.000   0.000
Foreign Exchange                 2.611     3.390     1.563     0.960    8.524      100.000  8.524
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 6/29/1992 16:50
0 (
x
Io-
tl



LUGANDA
AGFICULTURAL EXTNSION PROJECT
EiImaed Scadu odCred Oisnw_ by IDA RFl Yea Smur 
(USsMiNIOn)
IDA FY    ESTIMATED    ESTIMATED    CUm. DISS.    STANDARD           CUM. DISB.
AND   DISBURSEMENT CUMULATIVE    ASA % OF              DISB.      ACCORDING TO                     DISBURSEMENT PROFILES
SEMESTER        21       DISBURSEMENT  IDA CREDIT    PROFILE 3/    STD. PROFILE
FY93 1              0.36          0.36            2%            0%             0.00
FY93 II             1.89          2.24           14%            6%             0.95       14 -
FY04 1              1.89         4.13            26%           14%             2.21       13 -
FY94 11             3.00          7.13           45%           18%             2.84       12 -
FY96 I              2.37         9.50            e0%           26%             4.11       I1 L
FYOS2I              1.89         11.39           72%           34%             5.37       10
FYOS I              1.26         12.65           80%           38%             6.00        9
FY06 II             0.79         13.44           85%           54%             8.53
FY97 I              0.78         14.22           90%           66%            10.42        6
FY97 II             0.78         15.00           95%           70%            11.05
FYS8 1              0.47         15.47           98%           789%           12.32
FY08 II             0.32         16.79          100%           86%            13.58        3
FYS91                                                          90%            14.21        2
FY99 II                                                        90%            14.21        I'
FYOO I                                                         94%            14.84        0  F i r44 i I rns i I r46 i I Fi9 i I rtSO I m P I r i I m  r  
FY00 II                                                        94%            14.84             F3 I FVs I Fm a FYNuI FY rts   FM a   g m     FUn I rm I
FY011                                                          98%            15.47                   a Es0SuE    + STAMM PfW
FY01 11                                                       100%            15.79
I1CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS. COMPLETION AND CLOSING DATES ARE ASSUMED TO BE JANUARY 1,1993, DEC. 31.1997 AND JUNE 30, 1998. RESPECTIVELY.
2V IDA FY93 SEMESTERS I AND 11 INCLUDE ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT OF US$ 0.5 MILUON AS PPF.
3/ SOURCE: CODMO STANDARD DISBURSEMENT PROFILE FOR UGANDA AGRICULTURAL SECTOR (JUNE 1992).
Filname: AEPDPRO3.ALL



- 50 -
Annex 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROCUREMENT    COSTS
PERSON MONTHS         PROCEDURES             (US$M)
A. CAPACrTY BUILDING SUPPORT
1. Extension Services Adviser 1/                                         36            Internationa               0.523
2. Training Specialist                                                   48            Local                      0.171
3. Procurement Speciallst                                                48            Local                      0.171
4. Financial Analyst                                                     48            Local                      0.171
5. Management Support Services                                    Lump Sum             Local                      0.020
6. Management Trainng Specialist                                          6            International              0.105
7. Curriculum Developmeat of BAC                                  Lump Sum             Loeal                      0.057
8. Short term Technical Consultancies                                    1S            Internationa               0.252
9. Rationalization of Training Institutes                                10            Local                      0.035
and Collegas
10. Efficiency and Impact of Technology                                   6            Local                      0.022
Transfer Mechanisms
Subtotal                   1.527
B. PROJECT PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT
1. Engineer-Civil Works Design and Supervision                    Lump Sum             Local                      0.100
(Field officers)
2. Engineer/Civil Works Design and Supervision (Training Componeat)   Lump Sum         Local                      0.053
3. Engineer-Civil Works Design & Supervision                      Lump Sum             Local                      0.024
(HQ Offimc Facilties)
4. Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist                                     3            International              0.051
5. MId-Term-Review and Assessment                                         12           Local                      0.044
6. Preparation of a Follow-on Project                                     6            International              0.108
12           Local                      0.043
Subtotal                   0.423
1/ For capacity building as wll as implementaton



- 51 -                             Annex 3a
Page 1 of 9
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Availability of Agricultural Technologies
and Extension Potential
A.    Introduction
1.    This annex reviews the current status of the availability of technology in Uganda for the majo
production systems, the potential for extension, and the major research gaps. Present and potential yield
with specific extension messages are summarized in the attached table, along with the focus for researcl
for the medium term.
2.    This review is divided into the following categories:
(i) Technologies related to agro-climatic factors;
(ii) Technologies for crops;
(iii) Technologies for production systems;
(iv) Technologies for livestock;
(v) Fisheries;
(vi) Forestry.
B. Technologies Relating To Agro-Climatic Factors
3.    Technologies on adaptation to climatic conditions: The importance of evolving different crol
varieties and recommendations to suit different climatic conditions is well-recognized in Uganda
However, climate-specific technologies remain one of the weakest areas in extension and research
Meteorological data collection have deteriorated seriously due to the breakdown of infrastructure facilitie
during the civil war and budgetary constraints. The trained manpower in this area is also limited. Henci
the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF) is only able to provide limite(
meteorological forecasts to farmers and can make only limited recommendations to farmers based o0
meteorological forecasts. The Research effort to develop suitable technologies to suit the country'
different agro-climatic zones is also weak. These problems will be addressed partly through the adaptiv
farm trials under the project. Greater attention to agro-climatic adaptions of technology will be givel
under the proposed Agricultural Research and Training Project.
4.    Technologies on the management of rainwater: In Uganda rainfed farming is dominant, an(
rainfall is usually adequate in most of the country. However, Uganda has also starte(
experiencing drought in some parts especially in the North due to inter-seasonal dry spells
Theoretically, some of these drought problems could be mitigated through management of rain
water. However, farmers do not seem to practice rainwater harvesting, nor is research ver]



- 52 -
Annex 3a
Page 2 of 9
active in this area. Consequently, practical rainwater harvesting technologies are not available
to farmers.
5.    Furthermore, technologies for prolonged in-situ moisture conservation are not being recommended
to farmers as yet. Understanding of the interaction between water and fertilizer seems to be weak
Agricultural research institutes need to pay attention to this important interaction.
6.    Technologies on the adaptation to soil conditions: Although soil maps and some information
on land capabilities classification is available with research, scientific use of land resources has not yei
reached the frontline extension officers in the form of technologies extended to farmers.  It is
recommended that research in this area be augmented and that appropriate soil fertility management
recommendations be developed.
C. Crops
7.    This is the most important sub-sector of agriculture, accounting for 56 percent of GDP and 83
percent of agricultural GDP. Diversity in food crops is one of the special characteristics of Uganda's
agriculture. The major staple food crops are bananas, finger millets, cassava, sweet potatoes, maize, and
sorghum. Vegetable proteins are provided by beans, groundnuts, simsim, cowpeas and pigeon peas.
Other crops of growing importance include Irish potatoes, rice, soybeans and sunflowers. Among the
traditional cash crops, coffee, cotton, and tea are most important. Other cash crops include tobacco,
sugarcane, and cocoa. Horticultural crops are important for domestic consumption in the daily diet of
Ugandans. The main horticultural crops grown are pineapple, avocado, mango, passion fruit, melon,
papaw, capsicum, cabbage, eggplant, tomato, onion and okra. Although there is some export of these
commodities, they are grown mostly for subsistence and there is wide potential for expansion for
domestic and external markets.
8.    Based on the constraints, technological gaps, and production potential, the major focus of
extension would be on the following crops:
Bananas, maize, millet; oilseeds and groundnuts, simsim; roots and tubers (cassava and
sweet potato); cotton, coffee, beans and vegetables.
9.    Bananas: Bananas are the major staple food crop of the country and occupy the largest cultivated
area. The present yields are about 4, 6 tons per hectare ha which could be increased to 10-20 tons per
hectare with better management of agronomic practices and use of integrated pest management techniques
for control of nematodes, weevils, and wilt which are major problems causing low yields. Research in
this area is active and the technologies are available to double the yields.
10.   Millets: Finger and pearl millets are the most important and extensively cultivated cereals in the
drier and less fertile areas of Eastern and Northern Uganda. Average yield per hectare remains stable
at 0.8 tons per hectare. Although improved varieties have been developed in Serere Research Station
yielding up to 2.8 tons per hectare, the adoption rates are low. Hence there is need to popularize
improved varieties and also to introduce improved management practices concerning tillage and planting
methods.



- 53 -
Annex 3a
Page 3 of 9
11.   Maize: Although maize is not a historical staple food crop of Uganda, there has been a
significant increase recently in production area. The government intends to expand cultivation under
maize and export 50,000 tons/year. The Kawanda Research Station has been doing substantial work in
evolving new varieties such as Kawanda Composite and Longe 1. There is still need for more research
effort in this area. Extension can in - ease yields from 1.5 tons/ha to 3 tons/ha with available varieties
and production practices.
12.   Beans: Beans are the most impor;ant grain legumes in terms of area and production. They are
a major source of protein for Ugandan families and have potential in the export and barter trade.
However, production has been stagnant and in some areas has declined over the past 20 years. The
present yield ranges from 0.6 - 0.8 tons/ha. With the available technologies, bean yields could be
increased to 1.5 tons/ha. Accelerated research effort is also needed in evolving new varieties.
13.   Groundnuts: These are an important food and cash crop in Uganda and major source of protein
and vegetable oil. The crop is grown by all small farmers of the country with a high concentration in
the Northern Region. The present average yields of 0.8 tons/ha of dried pods could be increased to 2.5
tons/ha through the use of improved varieties and available technology. However, research efforts need
to be accelerated in evolving location-specific high-yielding varieties.
14.   Simsim (sesame seed): It is an important food and oil crop in Northern and Eastern Uganda.
Although there are no suitable varieties which can mitigate the problem of shattering of mature pods, the
average simsim yields of about 0.3 tons/ha could easily be doubled with better management practices.
15.   Roots and tubers: Among roots and tubers, cassava and sweet potatoes are the two most
economically important food crops. In terms of area and production, cassava and sweet potatoes are
second and third, respectively, among food crops, after bananas.
16.   Cassava: Although cassava yields have recently increased from an average of 4.8 tons/ha in
1970 to 9.7 tons/ha in 1985, they are still low compared to many countries growing cassava. The major
constraints for low yields are shortages of disease-resistant high-yielding varieties and poor agronomic
practices. The most important diseases are African cassava mosaic virus (ACMV) and Cassava Bacterial
Blight (CBB). Research is underway in addressing these problems. But, with better management
practices and the available technology the yields could still be increased to 35 tons/ha (four times more
than the current average yield). Production of improved planting material is being supported under the
HARE program of ASAC.
17.   Sweet Potatoes: Similarly, there is immense scope for increasing the yields of sweet potatoes
from 5 tons/ha to 25-30 tons/ha by popularizing varieties from I1TA which have already been tested by
research. There is however, need for research to focus attention on evolving proper management
practices.
18.   Cotton: Among the traditional cash crops of Uganda, cotton was next in importance to coffee
in export earnings (20 percent) between 1960 and 1970. However, cotton production has declined in
recent years due to market fluctuations, deterioration in yieids of two persistent cotton varieties (SATU
and BPA), and susceptibility to pests and diseases. Uganda produces high- quality medium-long-staple
cotton but the yield is poor (250-500 kg/ha-0.025 tons lint per ha). However, under good management
conditions, it is possible to increase yields up to 750-1,000 kgs/ha with available technologies. Research



- 54 -
Annex 3a
Page 4 of 9
has to play a significant role in varietal improvement and integrated pest management.
19.   Coffee: It is the most important export crop. It is also a smallholder crop and about 1.2 mil
farm families grow coffee. Present average yield of robusta coffee and Arabica coffee are about
tons/ha and 0.5 tons/ha clean coffee respectively. It is possible to double the production with avail
technology of management practices as well as by application of fertilizers. Researchers need to f
attention on varietal improvement, diseases, and pests. In the meantime, extension can promote
replacement of old trees with improved clones and the adoption of improved management practices
20.   Horticultural Crops: These provide a source of income for many small farmers year-rot
Some of the vegetables and fruits such as green beans, chilies, ginger, citrus, pineapples and pas'
fruits are now exported in small quantities. But poor produce quality, and inadequate post-har
handling, storage, and marketing facilities limit production. Extension should encourage small farme
--especially women--to concentrate more on this sector for raising additional income and also exp
post-harvest technologies and processing.
D. Production systems
21.   Research recommendations in the area of production systems are limited and this should bt
area of major thrust for the proposed NARO.
22.   Mixed Farming Systems: There is immense scope for maintaining ecological balance, as i
as improving techniques of mixed farming systems. Under the extension project, farmers will be tau
the correct methods available on mixed farming systems as well as the symbiosis and synergetic effi
such system can produce by integrating scarce resources to supplement and complement each other. C
livestock, crop aquaculture, crop-livestock-aquaculture-agroforestry, crop-silviculture and silvipasti
systems, etc. would be promoted.
23.   Soil Problems: Soil erosion is yet another problem in many parts of Uganda which calls
extension efforts in soil conservation through low-cost methods such as strip cropping, mulching, cont
budding, etc. These would help not only for soil conservation but also for water conservation. T
extension would promote in-situ soil and moisture conservation techniques. In addition, extension wo
also try to address soil salinity and alkalinity problems.
24.   Promotion of organic fertilization programs: Soil fertility problems for sustainable agricult
could be addressed under mixed farming system by promoting organic fertilizer programs. Extensi
therefore, would promote the use of farm and livestock waste which could be rich sources of nutrie
to maintain soil fertility, texture and structure. Furthermore, the use of bacteria cultures for preparat
of compost as well as increasing production of groundnuts and other leguminous crops could
demonstrated for wider adoption. There is also the possibility of enriching soils with green manures
of trees/shrubs grown under agro-forestry schemes. Thus the crop-livestock-forestry systems by-produ
would be utilized for maintaining soil health.
25.   Introduction of new crops and cropping systems: Farmers growing mostly traditional expc
oriented crops such as cotton and coffee which have fluctuating prices need to be taught abi
diversification to reduce their risks. Extension would therefore promote new crops and the introducti



- 55 -
Annex 3a
Page 5 of 9
of new cropping systems while at the same time improving the yields of the traditional crops.
26.   Introduction of new economic enterprises:  In addition to improving the promotion and
production of poultry, piggery, dairy, honey (bee keeping) among farmers (men and women), new
export-oriented activities such as sericulture, mushroom cultivation, and the cultivation of spices and
condiments would also be introduced by extension as part of the strategy for involving farm women and
youth in agricultural development and for generating more income and gainful employment.
E. Livestock Extension
27.   Livestock is an integral part of farming systems in Uganda and nearly one-third of farming
households depend on livestock as a major source of income. Although drastically reduced in numbers
and productivity during the years of political turmoil, Uganda's livestock industry continues to play a
significant role in the social and economic development of the nation. The livestock population of 5.24
million which used to provide for 12 million people in 1978 has dwindled to 3.4 million in 1990, while
the human population has increased to 16 million. With the decrease of the livestock population, milk
production also has declined. Annual milk consumption is now down to 15-20 liters per capita from 40
liters per capita. Since the early 1970s, as a result, powder milk is being imported. Similarly, meat
production has declined to about 55,000 tons annually.
28.   Production constraints: The major production constraints for low milk and meat production
include improper management, poor nutrition and poor veterinary care, and high incidence of livestock
disease.
29.   Production potential: There is immense production potential for increasing meat and milk
production through the use of proper management, nutrition, and veterinary care practices.
Extension would therefore focus on pasture management, feed and fodder technology
development, and farmer education on improved feeding techniques. Farm families would be taught
disease-control measures especially for trypanosomiasis, East Coast fever, and foot and mouth disease.
They would also be taught improved dairy management practices. In addition, new breeds of cattle could
be introduced. Furthermore, hygienic milk collection, storage, and processing techniques would be
taught. The concept of "zero grazing" which is gaining popularity among small dairy farmers, especially
women, could be popularized with suitable modifications for dairy and draught animals. The research
base for livestock would be improved under the proposed NARO.
30.   Poultry: Uganda has about 10 million head of poultry, and farmers raise chickens for egg and
meat as part of their mixed farming systems. The constraints in poultry production are Newcastle disease
and fowl typhoid are the main killers of backyard and medium-size poultry. Poor management of poultry
is another constraint. There is considerable potential for raising farmers inco--e through the promotion
of economic poultry units and better management practices. This is a particularly good enterprise for
rural women.
31.   There is also potential for extension to encourage farm households to adopt better management
techniques for raising local chickens in backyard systems. Indigenous chickens cost little but contribute
much to the availability of animal protein for rural households. Farm families could be taught better
management techniques and disease control through vaccination. Rural poultry demonstration units could



- 56 -
Annex 3a
Page 6 of 9
also be set up for the different types of production.
32.   Goats/Sheep/Pigs: There are about 0.7 million sheep, and 25 million pigs. The major probi
in production is management and disease control which could both be addressed by extension.
production also could be popularized among farmers as an economic activity, higher yielding breeds h;
already been tested.
33.   Animal Traction: Only 3 percent of Ugandan farmers use animal traction, whereas 90 perc
of the country's livestock are located on traditional small-scale mixed Oivestock-crop) farms. Use
animal draft power in smallscale farming offers great potential for increasing productivity and incom
However, promotion of Animal Traction is linked with nutrition, health care for animals as well as
development and promotion of implements. This would be one of the priorities of extension.
34.   Bee Keeping: Modem bee keeping was initiated in Uganda in the 1960s. Uganda's hor
potential is between 1,000 and 1,200 tons of honey annually but only 800 tons have been exploit
Domestic consumption is estimated at about 100 tons and the remainder is exported. There are abi
2,000 commercial bee keepers with approximately 12,000 commercial hives. Extension attention M
be focused on introducing Kenyan-type bee hives and modem bee keeping practices to supplement th
incomes.
F. Fisheries Extension
35.   As cited earlier, about ll percent of Uganda's animal protein is from fish. Fisheries
predominantly rural, based on 42,000 sq km of freshwater lakes, rivers, swamps, dams, and po
However, fish production is constantly declining due to poor management and poor species.
36.   Extension would concentrate its attention mostly on promoting aquaculture through
introduction of new specifies of fingerlings and by encouraging farmers to have fish ponds on their fart
Extension would also teach better management practices. Demonstration fish ponds would be establish
at DFIs and in farmers' fields to promote this activity.
37.   Extension would also teach farmers improved harvesting techniques and processing methoi
Research has started in this area and the production of fingerlings has started under the Headst
Program of Agricultural Research and Extension and would be strengthened under the ARTP.
G. Forestry
38.   Forestry currently accounts for about 2 percent of Uganda's agricultural GDP from the I
million hectares of natural forests and about 20,000 ha of plantations in tea and coffee estates. The i
output stands at 54,000 cu meters of fuelwood and wood, 4-5 million poles, 18 million cu meters
fuelwood and 100,000 tons of coal, valued at US$120 million (1990). However, increasing timb
requirements have resulted in the depletion of the valuable hard wood forests in the country.
39.   The extension focus would be mainly on the ongoing agro-forestry program. Farmers would



- 57 -
Annex 3a
Page 7 of 9
encouraged to grow trees on their waste lands for economic use and fuel needs, as well as f
environmental protection. The extension services wIll set up model demonstration units to train farmei
on proper nursery establishment, the selection of trees and species for nurseries, and management of agr(
forestry activities.
40.   Silvicultural and silvipastural systems would also be introduced and extension activities would t
initiated with the dissemination of available technologies which have been developed under ti
FAO/UNDP Forestry Projects-such as improved hand tools for harvesting and saw doctorinl
Promotion of the program on softwood processing and utilization would be initiated. The objective woul
be to maintain the flow of plantation softwood for processing.



CROP ACTIVITY             AVERAGE           PRODUCTION  EXTENSION FOCUS                                      RESEARCH FOCUS
PRODUCTION    POTENTIAL
1. Banana                      4.6             10-20         Cmposting for soil fhrtily, Banana Management    Contol of nematodes and wecvis
Cultural praties for dieae and pest problems
2. Mae                       1.2-15             34           Inroduction of new varieties                    New Varieties
Plant population                               Post harvest technology
Leveling
Feilization
Post harvest tchnology
_   _   _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _   _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _    Pet   and  diwases
3. Milleta                    0.8               2.5          Inroduction of improved varicties              New varieties
rllage and plantng methods                     Planting methods
Plant poplation
4. Beans                     0.6-0.8            2.0          bnroducfion of improved varieties               New varieties and agrnomic pracies
______________________     ______________    ______________   Plant popu lation                              ____Pi a_opu a_on
5. Groundnuts                 0.8               2.5          Introduction of improved varieties             New varictis and agronomic practices           Ln
Plant population
Fatilization
6. Sesame                     0.3               0.6          Pests and diseases                             New varieties to combat shating of pods
Plant population                               Agronomic practices
7. Coffee                    0.54.6             2-3          Managanent praties                             Management practi
Application of Fertilizers
_nIpoved clones
8. Cotton                    0.25-0.5          0.75-1.0      Plant population                               Varieties
Land levelling                                 Managemcet practices and Integrated pest
rimely harvting                                management
,______________  __________    _________         Integated  pest management
9. Cassava                    9.7               35           Introduction of new varieties                  Management practices
Management practices
10. Sweet       Potato         5              25-30          Introduction of IITA varieties and Management  Management prcices
practices



CROP ACTIVITY              AVERAGE           PRODUCTION  EXTENSION FOCUS                                    RESEARCH FOCUS
PRODUCTION    POENTIAL                                                                                                           X
11. HorticuWhurl Crops            -                -          Management Practices                          Varieties
Post harvest handling                        Management Practices
Tomato                         25              50          Varieties and Management Practices            Varieties and Management Practices
Cabbage                       20               50                    - do-                                        - do -
Onions                         12              24                    - do -                                       - do -
12. Livestock                2 litres/day        4-5 Its/day    Managernent Practices                       New breeds of cattle
Pasture improvenent
Feed and Fodder Technology                   Management Practices
Development
Disease Control                              Disease control
Zero Grazing Introduction
13. Poultry                                        -          Disease and Management problems               New breeds and Management Practices
14. Goats/SheepPiggery                              -         Disease and Management problems               New breeds and Managernent Practices
15. Bee-keeping                                    -          Introduction of Kenya top bee hives
16. Fisheries                                       -         Management of fish ponds, and introduction of  Management techniques and species for integrated
new species                                  systems farming
17. Forestry                                                  Management of Agro-forestry and introduction of   Management techniques and species for integrated
new plant types                              faming systems
18. Organic Fertilization                                                                                   Sustainable organic integrated fnrming systems
-        programs
19. New Economic                                                                                            Viable diversification crops
Enterprises                                                                                                                                               l
20. Animal Traction                                           Demonstration and Training                    Improved Implements and transpoit equipment



- 60 -
Annex 3b
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Agro-Ecological Zones
Zone/Region           Districts 1/                     Characteristic/Systems
1. South Western   Mbarara, Buishenyi,     The mountain systems in the far West feature banana
Rukulngiri, Kabale and    as the main food crop, with Arabica coffee and tea a,
Kisoro                  cash crops. The higher altitudes permit cultivation o
temperate fruits, vegetables, and Irish potatoes, as
well as some of the traditional food crops. Livestock
rearing is wide spread.
2. Western         Kasese, Kabarole,       Moderate to high rainfall. Perennial and animal crops
Bundibugyo, Kihale,     in mixed farming systems. Temperate crops in
HJima and Masiindi      Kabarole. Livestock is rearing is common.
3. Central         Mpigi, Kampala,         High rainfall areas, with bananas, Robusta coffee, an
Masaka, Rakai,          food crops grown in mixed farming systems.
Kalangal, Mukono,       Fallowing is minimal.
Luwero, Kiboga and
l _______________  M ubende
4. Eastern        linja, Kamuli, Iganga,    Two district rainy seasons separated by a four-month
Pallisa and Tororo      dry spell giving rise to the "teso-system" of annual
crops grown twice a year. Cassava has replaced
finger-millet as the main food crop, and cotton is the
main cash crop. Prior to the disturbances of the mid-
1980s, large number of cattle were kept, use of draft
ox-power was fairly widespread, and intercropping,
rotations and fallow periods were common to maintai
futility and reduce soil loss. Tea and temperate crops
are also grown at the higher altitudes in the East.
5. North Eastern   Kotido, Moroto, Soroti,  One rainy season. In the far North-east rainfall totals
Kumi, Kapchorwa and    less than 800mm giving rise to pastoral livestock
Mbale                   production contained with sorgum and millet
cropping. Temperate crops are grown i nthe higher
regions of Kapchorwa and Mbale.
6. North           Arua, Nebbi, Moyo,      Rainfall patterns restrict cultivation to one season.
Lira,  ,  Kitgum and  Rainfall declines from South to North. In the central
Gulu                    northern zone annuals such as cotton, maize and
finger-millet all common. Further south, groundnut
and sweet potato are more common, with sunflower
and tobacco the main cash crops.
1/ Project Districts are Underlined



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Progressive Coverage of Districts and Counties
1993 1/                1994                  1995
DISTRICTS             NO. OF                     Ist Rain    2nd Rain    Ist Rain   2nd Rain   Ist Rain   2nd Rain
DISTRICTS            COUNTIES        REGION    Season        Season       Season     Season     Season    -Season
1. Iganga                   6     Eastern               6           6          6          6          6           6
2. Tororo                    4     Eastern              4           4          4          4          4            4
3. Jinja                     2     Eastern              2           2          2          2          2            2
4. Mbale                     5     North East           -           2          3          5          5            5
5. Kumi                      3     North East           -           1          2          3          3            3
6. Apac                     4      Northern             -           2          3          4          4           4
7. Nebbi                     3     Northern             -           1          2          3          3            3
8. Gulu                     5     Northern              -           2          3          5          5           5
9. Hoima                     2     Western              2           2          2          2          2            2
10. Kabarole                 6     Western              6           6          6          6           6           6
11. Kibale                   3     Western              -            1          2          3          3           3
12. Mukono                   6     Central              _            1         3           6          6           6
13. Masaka                   5     Central              -            1         2           5          5           5
14. Bushenyi                 7     South West           7           7          7          7           7           7
15. Kisoro                   3    South West            3           3          3          3           3           3
16. Rukungiri                3     South West           -           1          2          3           3           3
TOTAL                       67     _30                              42         52         67         67          67
1/ Preparatory activities would be funded under the Headstart program of ASAC and the PPF for the project



- 62 -                             Annex 4b
Page I of 5
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Extension Training
The Program
1.    Training programs for extension workers and agricultural administrators will be strengthened to
provide better dissemination of advice as a means of overcoming the production constraints as well as
technological gaps, and assist farmers in the adoption of improved husbandry practices. The principles
training and visit system form the basis for the improved extension service. These principles include
sustained and regular training of extension workers for the transfer of appropriate recommendations. Ti
first step in designing the appropriate training programs is a quick diagnostic survey to identify the skill
knowledge required by farmers to improve their production in various sectors. The second step is to id
the key impact messages which would be taught by the FEWs to the farmers. The order of operation ai
seasonal priority is then determined so that FEWs can get appropriate training at the proper time. CEO
are front line supervisors of FEW, would also need training in what is to be passed on to the farmer. C
should be able to answer, more advanced technical questions and to identify practical problems. For dir
SMS, even greater depth of knowledge is required - to enable them to instruct FEWs and CEOs.
2.    Research workers have to develop the ability to identify factors limiting farm production in the I
and target research priorities tuned to the practical solutions of these problems. This implies joint farm
by researchers and extension workers - and cooperation in the design, execution, and analysis of trials
between farmers, researchers, and extension workers through regular visits.
Training Strategy
3.    Since the objective of extension is to improve the quality of farming practices, training of resear
extension-farmer teams must be such that it imparts the specific information needed. There is little meri
telling the farmer to do something. The farmer needs to Inow how to carry out a task. It is best if the
extension worker works with the farmer in performing specific tasks/skills. This implies that the FEWs
actually work with the farmer in performing specific tasks and likewise, CEOs and SMSs who train FEN
must also be able to perform all tasks. Furthermore, trainers of SMSs (usually researchers, senior staff,
university professors) need to be acquainted with farming operations and how they are best performed.
requires a change in present training methods from a reliance on lectures to learning by doing.
4.    Comparison of pre- and post- course tests on !knowledge and skills would be carried out to asses!
training effectiveness. However, the most visible measure of the impact of training would be in farmers
fields.
5.    The fortnightly training for one day of FEWs and CEOs by SMSs would be a major feature of tl
project. The preseasonal and monthly workshops for SMSs and researchers are another feature which is
into the dynamics of the T&V system. In addition, long-term degree-related courses for SMSs, retrainin
(refresher) orientation and other in-service training programs would be organized for various categories i
personnel as per the annex attached. Provision is also made under the project for overseas training prog



- 63 -                            Annex 4b
Page 2 of 5
such as short courses, study tours, workshops/seminars, and long-term courses leading to postgraduate s
in selected specialized areas for which facilities are not available at Makerere University.
Frontline Training
6.    The frontline staff (CEOs and FEWs) would be trained for one day by district-level SMSs at DF
designated locations once every fortnight or mnonth depending on the identified requirements for the disti
The DFI Principal would work out the logistics, content, and methodology of the training in consultatior
the District Extension Coordinator and the team of SMSs at district level. Identified researchers would t
invited depending on the need for reinforcement of new technology and skills. The primary aim of this
training is to transfer to the FEWs and CEOs technology relevant to the immediate needs of farmers and
obtain feedback. This training should be oriented and based on identified recommended practices (key ix
points) to be disseminated by FEWs during the following month to the farmers. Hence one or two pract
(and key impact points) in different subjects - namely, crop production and protection, animal husbandry
fisheries, forestry, etc.- would be identified and the required skills passed on to field workers. This trail
would be the chief means for continuously updating the professional skills of extension workers. In addi
to the researchers, representatives of input supply agencies and NGOs, as well as selected farmers, would
also be invited to these training programs.
Pre-Seasonal and Monthly SMSs Workshops
7.    These workshops are the main vehicle for the training of SMSs by researchers. The pre-seasonal
workshops are conducted once in a season for three days' duration at designated -esearch stations. This
would be the forum where researchers, SMSs, district extension officers, county extension officers, and I
staff would develop the broad seasonal plans and strategies as well as the recommendations on the selecte
impact points of the season and decide on the adaptive research and on-farm trials. There would also be
monthly workshops conducted for one day at the DFI where the same staff attending the pre-seasonal
workshops would meet and discuss the progress in adoption of technology, the adaptive research and on-f
trials, input, and other requirements. These workshops would also include joint field visits to adaptive
research farms and nearby on-farm-trial plots so that mid-term corrections could be made.
Review Meeting at County Level
8.    These are done once in a fortnight by County Extension Officers with FEWs in their county, mair
to obtain feedback about the implementation status of the program and to provide additional reinforcement
FEWs.
County/District Coordination Meetings
9.    These are routine meetings conducted once a month for providing administrative coordination and
logistic support to extension.
Other Training
10.   A number of in-service programs would be organized for field extension staff, farmers, women, ar
youth at DFIs - and for SMSs and other staff at research stations and university, as per the attached plan.
The attached training plan is only a guide for planning and budget cal_-ulations. Content and numbers wou
be refined depending on the seasonally determined training needs.



EXTENSION TRAINING PLAN FOR THE PROJECT
TYPE OF TRAINING                              NATUREOF               DURATION IN           TRAINERS                      1ST     2ND      3RD    4TH
PARTICIPANTS          DAYS & VENUE                                        YEAR   YEAR   YEAR   YEAR
PERSONS TRAINED
1. Fortglhy Training                          FEWs, CEOs             I (DFI)              District SMSs                   396      624     624      624
2. Preseasonal Workshops                      SMSs & R.Sc.           3 (R.S)              Research Scientists              23       32       32      32
3. Monty workshops                            SMSs & R.Sc.           2 (R.S.)/DFI         Reseach Scientists               72       96      96       96
NUMBERING OF INSERVICE COURSE
4. Re-taining (Refresher)                     FEWs                   30 (A.C/DFI)          Trainers of Colleges, SMSs       2        4        2       -
S. Orientatio on Extension
MeodotlogyCommunicaon Techniques          CEOs, Distiet          3 (DFI)               HQs Staff, Research              12       4        -       -
SMSs                                        Personnel (R.P)
6. Crop Production & Pretcion                 FEWs & Selected        5 (DPI)               SMSs                             4        2       2        2
Technology (on slected major creps)        CEOs
7. Extension Methods & Communication          FEWS and CEOs          5 (DFI)              SMSs, R.P. from Univesity         2        2        -       -
Technique. including use of simple
akid
8. Farm Plaing, Mixed Farming and             CEOs                   5 (1DI)              SMSs                              2        2       2        2
Cropping Sydems
9. Animal Nutrition (Pasture Management       FEWs & Selected        S (DFI)              SMSs & R.P.                       2        2       2        2
and Feed and Fodder Tehnology            CEOs
10. AnIm  Husbandry (mcluding Health          Selected CEOs         5 (DFI)               SMSs & R.P.                       I        1       2        2
Care)
11. Fish Farming Technology                   FEWs & Selected       5 (DFI) and           SMSs & R.P.                       -        I       I        -
CEOs                  Outreacia Centers
12. Agro-fory  & Woodlot Improvcmn            FEWs & Selected       S (DFI) and           SMSs & R.P.                       -        2       1        1
CEOs                  Outreach Ceaters
13. Soil Conservation                         Selected FEWS &        3 (DFI) and          SMSs & R.P.                       -        2       1        1
CEOs                  Outwach Centers
14. Ecomic Enterprises                        Selected FEWs &        5 (DFI) and          SMSs & R.P.                       -        2       2        2
Dairy/Poultry/Piggery/Bee-keepiW         CEOs                   Outeach Centers
Sericulre/Mushroom Cultivation
15. Vegetable & Fruit Production              Selected FEWs &       S (DPI)               SMSs                              2        2       2        2
Technqoo                                  CEOs
16. Home Economks and Nutrition               Sdected FEWs &        S (DFI)               SMSs & R.P.                       -       2        2        2
CEOs
17. Post Harvea Technology and                FEWs & CEOs           5 (DFI) and           SMSs & R.P.                       2       2        2        2
On-farm Storage                                                 Outreach Ceat's                                                                                >
18. On-farm T.4n1* .a. AAdtvc narth          -W   &       i e5 (FI)                       S                                 2        2       2        203



EXTENSION TRAINNG PLAN FOR THE PROJECT
TYPE OF TRAINING                               NATURE OF               DURATION IN           TRAINERS                        IST     2ND      3RD      4TH
PARTICIPANTS           DAYS & VENUE                                         YEAR  YEAR  YEAR  YEAR
INSERVICE TRAINING PLAN FOR SMSs
20. Communication Techniques to support        District SMSs           5 Days Maere          MU/Faculty of Agric.               1                          I -  1
Monthly Training including Visual Aids                            Uniersity (MU)        Extension Dcpt.
21. AdaptIve Research/On-farm Trials           Selected District       5 days (Idenified     Identified Research                I        I        I       -
SMSs & DFI Staff       Research Station)     Scientists
22. Production & Protection Technologies       District SMSs          Idenfified Research    Research Scientists                -        1       2        2
on Major Crops (dependag on District       and CP,PP              Station
requiremnts)
23. Integrated Pest Management                 District SMSs and       5 days Selected       Research Scientists                -        I        1       1
Techniques on Major Crops                  CEOs (PP)              R.S.
24. Animl Nutrition (Fead & Fodder             District SMSs and       S days (L.R.S.)       Research Scientists                -        1        1        1
Technology)                                (A.I. & C.P.)
25. Fish Farming                               District SMSs and       5 days (K.R.S.)       Research Scientists                -        1        -        I
(Fisheries)
26. Agro Forestry                              District SMSs and       5 days (R.S.)         Research Scientists                -        I        -        1
(Forestry & C.P.)
27. Mixed Farming Systems                      District SMSs and       Selected Research     Research Scientists                1        -        I       -
DFI Staff              Stations
28. Itercropping & Mixed Cropping              District SMSs and       Selected Research     Research Scientists                         I I      1        1
Systems                                    DFI Staff              Stations
29. Extension Management for Middle Level      District Extension      5 days (M.U.)         Resource Persons &                 I        -        I       -
Workers                                    Coordinator & County                          M.U. Extension Dept.
Exten. Coordinators
30. Post Harvest Technology                    District SMSs           5 days (R.S.)         Research Scientists                I        I        -       4
and DFI Staff
31. Vegetable & Fruit Production               District SMSs           5 days (R.S.)         Research Scientists                -        -        I       -
32. Animal Husbandry                           District SMSs (Al)      5 days (R.S.)         Research Scientists                -        I        -        I
33. Economic Enterprises on Dairyt             District SMSs & CEOs   5 days (L.R.S. and     Resource Persons and               -        I        I       I
Poultry/Piggesy/Sericulture!               (A.l. and C.P.)        R.S.)                  Research Scientists
Mushrwoom/Bee-keeping
34. ExLnsion Management                        Top Level Adminis-      5 days (M.U.)         Resource Persons of                -        I        I       -
trators & SMSs                               University
35. Courses for Monit'ming & Evaluation               _                     _                        _                                                    I
and Other Staff
36. Promotional Training (persons)             SMSs                    MU                            _                                   5       10       -             >
37. Promotional Training (persons)             FAS                     Bukalasa              Lectures                           -       40       40       -             I
IR  Tm _n.,.                         *Tr1-                              Afl I                                                   - D-..  -f       t C      -      __



NOTE: 1. Fottnighly taining progams projected for each year are only indicative, assuming the average number of counties for district would be (4).
2. The tentative staff training plan projected is only an indicative plan of the nature/type of training to be conducted for different categories of personnel for
calculating budgetay requirments. It will be modified according to requirements when preparing the work programs. It is assumed that
25-30 staff membets would be trained in each course.
3. The FarmerslWomentYouth training would be determined based on the nature of requirements. However, provision is made to have at least 2-3 training programs on
specialized topics to be organized for each district requiremeats at DFIs per year and 2 on-farm trainings per county.
4. It is planned to train 80 Field Assistants at Agricultural Colleges for one year in specialy designed courses. Similarly, it is planned to train at least
15 SMSs for Masters Degree programs at Makerere University by making special arrangements so that some of the District SMSs would be developed professionaly.
5. Overseas training plan wiUl be designed keeping in view the total number of units and finances provided in the budget. The plan would include Subject Matter Courses,
Management Courses, Maintenance & Computer Training for support staff. One or two overseas training institutions/Universities would be identified for
coordination purposes and to plan the requirements. The details of the overseas traininglconsultancy requirements would be worked out in Annual Work Programs.
Provision is made for long term degree-related courses in overseas training since at least 6 SMSs have to be trained in specialized interdisciplinary areas such
as plant protection (Integrated Pest Management), Communication Technology, etc., for which there is no program at Makerere University
6. MU: Makerere University; R.S.: Research Station; R.P.: Resource Persons; R.Sc.: Research Scientists
KRS Kwanda Research Station
LRS Livestock Research Station                                                                                                                            a
CP Crop
PP Plant Protection
Al Animal Industry
oto
cz R



- 67 -                         Annex4c
Page 1 of 8
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Extension Services - Terms of References
A. Extension Services Advisor
Objective
Ihe major objective of this assignment would be to assist MAAIF in the implementation
of the AEP. The assignment would also enable the Director of Agriculture of MAAIEF to
effectively coordinate with other Ministries and externally funded projects, as well as with the
proposed National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO), Makerere University, to
implement the unified extension system.
Scope of Work
The Extension Advisor would report to the Director of Agriculture. He/she would work
in close collaboration with the Commissioners of Extension and Training as well as with the
locally recruited Training specialist. The Extension Advisor would:
(a)    Advise and guide the implementation of the proposed unified extension system
in the selected districts.
(b)    Participate in pre-seasonal workshops and assist in developing appropriate
seasonal work plans and programs.
(c)    Assist in preparation of annual work plans and semi-annual and annual reports
to be furnished to MAAIF management and IDA.
(d)    Design reporting formats for district and other officers and ensure reporting is
done properly.
(e)    Monitor, evaluate and guide in organizing monthly training, workshops, in-
service training programs, and overseas training programmes.
(f)    Advise and guide on establishing, monitoring, and evaluation systems for the
project.
(g)    Liaise with the proposed National Agricultural Research Organization and
Makerere University and contribute to the strengthening of research-extension
linkages as well as the fixing of research and training priorities.



- 68 -                          Annex4c
Page 2 of 8
(h)    Assist the DA to coordinate efforts of consultants and other project officials in
delivery of extension, extension training, and management functions and studies.
(i)    Guide the process of rationalization of donor support projects and other extension
services in the selected districts.
(j)    Assist in the mid-term evaluation of the project and in identifying a rational
approach for a National Agricultural Extension Service.
Qualifications
a.    Education
Postgraduate training (preferably a Ph.d.) in agricultural extension.
b.    Experience
Should have demonstrated skills and experience of at least ten years in extension
administration and a proven ability to organize, manage, and evaluate extension
and training programs. Experience with World Bank Projects in Africa would
be an advantage.
Duty Station
Entebbe, Uganda
Duration of Assignment
It is envisaged that the assignment would be for thirty-six months. The initial contract
will be for twelve months starting from September 1, 1992, and will be extended each year up
to thirty-six months, subject to satisfactory performance as evaluated at the end of each year.
Support by MAAIF
MAAIF would provide: (a) a qualified counterparts to work with the advisor; (b) a
vehicle and office equipment, and (c) work space and secretarial support. The counterparts
would include at one or two middle-level extension staff sho are at least ten years away from
retirement.



- 69 -
- 69 -                ~~~~Annex 4c
Page 3 of 8
B. Extension Training Specialist
Objectives
The objective of this assignment would be to assist the Director of Agriculture, MAAIF,
and the Extension Advisor in the improvement of skills and delivery of extension services in
order to establish the unified extension systems within an appropriate framework.
Scope of Work
(a)    Assist in the redeployment of staff and setting up of the unified extension system.
(b)    Assist in identifying training needs and updating the training plan for extension.
(c)    Assist in monitoring the delivery of extension services in order to develop a
rational framework for a unified system.
(d)    Help the district staff in organizing the in-service training programs for field
extension staff and farmers (men and women).
(e)    Provide needed help in organizing orientation courses, monthly/fortnightly
training programs, workshops, and seminars.
(f)    Coordinate with Extension Liaison Officers at research institutes and contribute
to the strengthening of research-extension linkages as well as linkages with
Makerere University.
(g)    Liaise with the Commissioner for Training and Information of MAAIF to provide
needed support to training and information needs of the project.
(h)    Assist in the process of establishing linkages with other Ministries, parastatals,
training institutions, and donor-supported agencies for enlisting the support and
interaction with extension.
Qualifications
a.    Education
A basic degree in any of the agricultural sector disciplines, and a post-graduate
degree in agricultural extension or agricultural education.
b.    Experience
Should have demonstrated skills and experience of at least ten years in extension
training and extension supervision and a proven ability to organize, manage, and
evaluate extension training programs. Training in training techniques and
supervision would be an added advantage.



- 70 -                         Annex 4c
Page 4 of 8
Duty Station
Entebbe, Uganda
Duration of Assignment
48 months. The initial contract would be for twelve months starting from July 1, 1992
and would be extended each year up to thirty-six months, subject to satisfactory performance as
evaluated at the end of each year.
Support by MAAIF
MAAIF would provide: (a) a qualified counterpart who will eventually take over the
responsibilities of the training specialist; (b) work space, office equipment, and secretarial
support; and (c) transport.
C. Terms of Reference for Farm Implements and Animal Traction Specialist
Introduction
The Government of Uganda has identified the need in the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Industry and Fisheries for an internationally recruited farm implements and animal traction
specialist to assist in the implementation of the Agricultural Extension Project. The appointment
would be an effort to strengthen MAAIF's capability to implement aniral traction in Uganda.
Objective
The objective of this assignment would be to assist MAAIF in the area of animal traction.
The assignment would enable MAAIF to also effectively coordinate with externally funded
projects in implementing and promoting animal-drawn implements in Uganda.
Scope of Work
The consultant would:
(a)   Inventory and catalog the hand tools and animal-drawn implements used by
Ugandan farmers, assess the efficiency of the tools and implements, and analyze
their advantages and disadvantages.
(b)    Design prototype animal-drawn implements and tools for basic soil and crop-
management operations.
(c)   Identify local artisans and manufacturers for such tools and implements.
(d)    Supervise the production of the implements and tools locally, and test them.



- 71 -
Annex 4c
Page 5 of 8
(e)    Conduct training courses for field extension workers and farmers on the use of
animal-drawn implements and hand tools.
(f)    Evaluate the performance of the implements and recommend for larger-scale
production.
(g)   In the light of prevailing cropping systems, prototypes, artisanship and
manufacturing capacity available in ULganda, make specific recommendations on
medium and long-term programs for MAAIF for the development and promotion
of animal-drawn implements.
Quali'ications
a.    Education
A basic degree in any of the agricultural sector disciplines.
b.    Experience
Should have demonstrated skills and experience of at least ten years in extension
training including practical experience in design, production, and testing of farm
implements for animal traction and simple hand tools. International experience -
especially in East Africa - would be an added advantage.
Duty Station
Entebbe, Uganda
Reporting
The farm implements and animal traction specialist would report to the Director of
Agriculture, MAAIF. MAAIF would provide work space, secretarial assistance, a telephone,
a vehicle, and office equipment for use.
Duration of Assignment
The initial contract would be for three person-months with a follow-up assignment of
another three months.
D. Terms of Reference for Audio-Visual Aids and Mass Media Specialist
Introduction
The Govermment of Uganda has identified the need in the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Industry and Fisheries for an intemationally recruited audio-visual and mass media specialist to
assist in the implementation of Agricultural Extension Project. The appointment would be an
effort to strengthen MAAIF capability in the area of information and communications.



- 72 -
Annex 4c
Page 6 of 8
Objective and Scope of Work
The objective of this assignment is to assist MAAIF in training extension staff in the
planning, preparation, use, and evaluation of simple visual aids and the use of mass media to
support monthly and fortnightly training as well as field extension activities of MAAIF.
The consultant would:
(a)    Review the available audio-visual and mass media production for agricultural
extension and make recommendations on what needs to be done in the future.
(b)    Assess the equipment and staff-training needs in the area of extension information
and communications.
(c)    Organize training programs for extension staff in the planning, preparation,
evaluation, and use of simple visual aids to support monthly training and field
extension work.
(d)    Organize training programs for headquarters and media resource center staff on
the production and use of information materials and other mass media resources.
(e)    Prepare a medium-term strategy for expanding the use of audio-visual and mass
media in agricultural extension.
Qualifications
a.    Education
A basic degree in any of the agricultural sector disciplines and a Ph.d. in
agricultural extension, with specialization in information and communications.
b.    Experience
Should have demonstrated skills and experience of at least ten years in Extension
communications and proven ability in organizing training programs in the
planning and production of visual aids and the use of mass media. Experience
in East Africa would be an added advantage.
Reporting
The audio-visual aids and mass media specialist would report to the Director of
Agriculture, MAAIF, and work closely with the Extension Training Specialist and Commissioner
for Training and Information at MAAIF. MAAIF would I rovide the work space, telephone, a
vehicle, and office equipment for use.
Duration o' Assignment
The duration of assignment will be three person-months.



- 73 -                        Annex 4c
Page 7 of 8
E. Terms of Reference for Integrated Pest Management Spedalist
Introduction
The Government of Uganda has identified the need in the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Industry and Fisheries for an internationally recruited specialist in the area of integraned pest
management ([PM). The appointment is an effort to strengthen MAAIF's capability to train its
staff in the area of integrated pest management.
Objective
The objective of this assignment is to assist MAAIF in training subject matter specialists
in integrated pest management on selected crops.
Scope of Work
(a)   In consultation with the MAAIF scientists, SMSs, and Plant protection Division
of MAAIF, identify the skill gaps in the area of integrated pest management.
(b)    Prepare field demonstrations and organize a training program for SMSs and the
diagnostics and technique of IPM.
(c)    Advise and guide the Plant Protection Division of the MAAIF on the future
strategy for implementing IPM.
(d)    Prepare a suitable plan of action to be followed by SMSs in the area of IPM.
Qualifications
a.    Education
A basic degree in any of the Agriculture with a Ph.d. in entomology/plant
protection.
b.    Experience
Should have demonstrated skills and experience of at least ten years in the area
of integrated pest management and a proven ability to train extension SMSs in
plant protection. Experience in East Africa will be an added advantage.
Duty Station
Entebbe, Uganda



- 74 -                         Annex 4c
Page 8 of 8
Reporting
The integrated pest management specialist will report to the director of agriculture,
MAAIF. He will work closely with the head of the Plant Protection Division of MAAIF.
MAAIF will provide the work space, secretarial assistance, telephone, vehicle, and office
equipment for use.
Duration of Assignment
The initial contract will be three person-months.



- 75 -
Annex Sa
Page 1 of 6
UGANDA
AGRICULTURE EXTENSION PROJECT
Management Structure and Systems of MAAIF
A. Background
1.    Until mid-1991 four major government organizations were principally involved in
agriculture:
The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA);
The Ministry of Animal Industry and Fishing (MAIF);
The Ministry of Environment and Protection (MEP); and
The Ministry of Commerce, Cooperatives and Marketing (MCCM).
2.    The Ministry of Agriculture had the mandate to develop and implement crop production
policy and program throughout Uganda. It also had jurisdiction over the Uganda Tree Growers
Corporation and the Kibimba Rice Company.
3.    Administrative functions were executed through the permanent secretary and technical
functions were executed through the department of agriculture headed by the commissioner of
agriculture. The commissioner reported directly to the permanent secretary. The department of
agriculture consisted of four divisions: the Production Division under which an extensive support
service and other sections of coffee, cocoa, cotton, food crops, and inputs were located; the
Administrative Division, which was responsible for training, audio-visual aids, and
mechanization; the Development Division, which consisted of farms and schemes, irrigation, and
seed projects; and the Research Division, which was responsible for the research centers. Each
division was headed by a deputy commissioner assisted by assistant commissioners. The research
division was recently put in the charge of a secretary for research of the same rank as permanent
secretary.
4.    The Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries had three departments: (i) the Department
of Veterinary Services and Animal Industry, (ii) the TSETSE Control Department, and (iii) the
Fishery Department. The major task of the ministry was to ensure an adequate supply of animal
proteins to the population and to facilitate conditions for exporting surplus production in order
to earn foreign exchange.
5.    In an effort to streamline the services and improve coordination in the agriculture sector,
MOA and MAIF were amalgamated to form the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and
t.-heries (MAAIF) in June 1991. The organizational structure of the MAAIF headquarters is
still under review and a final decision has not yet been made.
6.    The Ministry of Comunerce, Cooperatives and Marketing has been merged with that of
Industry to create the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives. The Ministry of



- 76 -
Annex Sa
Page 2 of 6
Environment and Protection has also been amalgamated with that of Energy and Minerals to form
the Ministry of Water, Energy, Minerals and Environment Protection.
7.    The overall coordination of policy formulation analysis and implementation has been the
responsibility of the Agriculture Polic, Committee (APC), a council of permanent secretaries
of the ministries involved in agriculture and natural resources in chaired by the permanent
secretary of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (which has now been merged
with the Ministry of Finance to create the Ministry of Finance and Planning). The APC receives
technical support from the Agricultural Secretariat (AGSEC) attached to the Central Bank of
Uganda. In addition, the APC is supported by the Sub Committee on Research and Extension
(SCORE) to address policy issues in these areas.
B. MAAIF Present and Proposed
(i)    Organization
8.    With the amalgamation of MOA and MAIF, major organizational changes have been
effected mainly in the Department of Agriculture. In March 1992 the position of commissioner
of agriculture has been elevated to director of agriculture. The director of agriculture reports
directly to the permanent secretary. The director of agriculture is assisted by four commissioners
- the department commissioner for production and marketing (extension); commissioner for
agricultural development; commissioner for training and information; and commissioner for
agriculture planning. The commissioner for production and marketing (extension) is assisted by
six zonal/regional assistant commissioners as follows:
Zone/Region         Districts
1. Southwestern     Mbarara, Bushenyi, Rukungiri, Kabale, and Kisoro
2. Western          Kasese, Kabalore, Bundibugyo, Kibaale, Hoima, and Masiindi
3. Central          Mpigi, Kampala, Masaka, Rakai, Kalangal, Mukono, Luwero, Kiboga,
and Mubende
4. Eastem           Jinja, Kamuli, Iganga, Pallisa, and Tororo
5. Northeastern     Kotido, Moroto, Soroto, Kumi, Kapchorwa, and Mbale
6. Northern         Arua, Nebbi, Moyo, Lira, Apac, Kitgum, and Gulu
9.    The other departments of the former MAIF are being headed by commissioners who
directly report to the PS of MAAIF. Other departments of the former MAIF have two assistant
commissioners. The organizational structure of these departments has not been changed so far,
except that twenty-eight veterinary department personnel have been helped to leave the
department and start in private practice.
0i)    Management Systems
10.   The permanent secretary of MAAIF is the overall administrative head. Research-related
matters are dealt with by the secretary research (who is likely to be redesignated as director
general of NARO). The policy, administrative, financial, and technical aspects are decided by
committees as follows:



- 77 -                          Annex Sa
Page 3 of 6
The Policy Commiuttee is headed by the minister of agriculture. It is attended by the
deputy minister of agriculture, permanent secretary of MAAIF, and all department heads,
including the director of agriculture, commissioner of veterinary, commissioner tsetse control,
and commissioner of fisheries. This committee meets once a week and discusses policy issues
and program implementation. The necessary position papers are prepared as per the agenda,
minutes of the discuss,ion are maintained, and action areas are followeQd up.
The Finance Committee is headed by the deputy minister of MAAIF. It meets once a
month and approves the initial budget requests to be sent to the Ministry of Finance and Planning,
looks at the priority and outstanding obligations, and decides the annual utilization of funds. It
is once again represented by heads of departments.
Technical committees, which meet once a month, operate at departmental levels, discuss
the implementation of programs, and provide guidance.
Steering committees have been appointed for each of the major foreign-donor-aided
projects. All the steering committees are usually headed by the permanent secretary of MAA IF.
The composition of each steering committee varies as per the requirement of the project. Due
to this practice of setting up steering committees for each project, the number of steering
committees has markedly increased; leading to coordination problems for management.
(iii)   Budgetary and Procurenent Processes
11.   The budgeting estimation begins in February or March, when the Ministry of Finance and
Planning invites the budget estimate from MAAIF. MAAIF requests that each department
prepare a budget for the coming year. MAAIF does not have suitable capacity to do the advance
planning in a systematic way so that he budgetary estimates can be based on advance planning
and projections. Consequently the estimates are only based on ad hoc computations and
projections. These estimates are then discussed at department levels before the Finance
Committee headed by the deputy minister of MAAIF, where the final decisions are made. The
budget estimates are sent to the Ministry of Finance and Planning, which then finally
communicates the actual allocation.
Ultimately any expenditure is to be made by a voucher signed by an authorized officer.
Payment is approved by representative of the permanent secretary (who is the accounting officer
of the ministry) if not the permanent secretary.
Under the present financial system a record of expenditure is to be kept at each unit
where the program is carried out. At the same time records of expenses are kept at divisional
and department levels and at ministry headquarters. Further the monthly record of expenses is
supposed to be communicated by departments to the Head of Finance, MAAIF who, in turn,
sends them to the secretary to the treasury and informs the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
The MAAIF does not have centralized expertise in the area of the procurement of goods,
equipment, and civil works or the procedures to be followed for the international competitive
bidding process. Some of the projects assisted by foreign donors (including IDA) have developed
separate procurement units to meet the central tender board and donor requirements.



- 78 -
Annex Sa
Page 4 of 6
MAAIF can use the procurement expertise in project units as a nucleus, but it has to
strengthen overall expertise in their area for handling the proposed project. The project provides
for a locally recruited procurement specialist and management programs/workshops to develop
the expertise of MAAIF to handle procurement of goods, equipment, construction/rehabilitation
of houses, and other facilities and services.
As agreed at the recent (May 1992) Country Implementation Review MAAIF would set
up a procurement committee with the following:
Permanent Secretary, MAAIF                Chairman
Director, Agriculture, MAAIF              Member
Director, Animal Industry                 Member
Procurement Specialist, MAAIF             Member/Secretary
Chief Accountant, MAAIF                   Member
Representative, Ministry of Justice       Member
Representative, MFEP                      Member
Representative of Central Tender Board    Member
Coopted Technical Experts (3) 1/          Members
flv)   Proposed Functional Reorganization
12.   The Ministry of Public Services is in the process of reorganizing the MAAIF along
functional lines rather than the technical specialization of crop, veterinary, and fisheries, as at
present. The proposed functional reorganization is indicated in Figure 1. It is proposed to create
a position of secretary agriculture to bring about the unification function relating to crop,
veterinary and fisheries. The secretary of agriculture is to be assisted by a director technical
services and development; director, training and information; director extension; director,
regulation and protection; and director, policy and planning. The director, technical services and
development, will be assisted by the assistant directors for: crops, animal production, veterinary,
and fisheries. Similarly other directors will be assisted by the assistant directors (Figure 1).
13.   In the present set-up, the technical expertise on crop, veterinary, and fisheries is located
under different departments of MAAIF and these departnents have lines of command to subject-
matter spe- cialists. The functional reorganization would really carry the unification of crops,
veterinary, and fisheries activities at the headquarters. The directors can be promoted from any
of the streams and they will be able to guide the distr; t staff in serving the farmers in a farming
systems framework.
I/ for the extension project one of the coopted technical experts would be the Extension Advisor



- 79 -
Annex $a
Page 5 of 6
C. District Arrangements
14.   Each district is headed by a district administrator who is a political appointee of the
president. The administrator's main task is to mobilize people for political and developmental
purposes. He is in charge overall of the district. He is assisted by the district executive secretary
(DES), who belongs to the Civil Service. The DES is the executive head of the districts. All
the functionaries from various ministries located at the district level are under the overall charge
of the DES.
15.   At the moment two committees are expected to function at the district level.
(i)    District Development Committee
16.   This committee is headed by the district administrator and DES and all the heads of
departments and the disLrict extension officer are members. This committee is expected to
identify the potential areas for development of the districts.
(ii)    District Planning Committee
17.   This committee would be responsible for preparing the plan for the district (including
agriculture) on the basis of policy and budget guidelines and a flow of detailed information from
the farmer community and extension staff. The DES is the chairman of this committee.
The district agriculture plan is expected to be used as a guide to the annual extension
program and specific seasonal work plan for each district.
At present, these committees hardly play a significant role. But legislation is expected
to be enacted by October 1992 which changes their roles and gives them greater responsibility
in the planning and implementation of the district plan.
MAAIF is presently represented at the district level by its district agricultural officer and
district officers from the veterinary, tsetse control, fisheries, and home economics
divisions/departments. Some dirtricts also have a District Farm Institute (DFI) which provides
training for staff and farmers. Recud.iy it has been decided to bring all the staff of MAAIF under
the unified command of the District Extension Coordinator (DEC) who would be selected from
among the technical disciplines represented at the district. A county extension coordinator -vill
be selected in a similar manner. The proposed organizational structure of MAAIF at district,
county, and sub-county level would have to be integrated with the proposed decentralization of
the district administration.
The FEWs would report on their activities once in a month to the parish committee chiefs
in order to keep the local authorities and community abreast of the extension activities. Similarly
the county extension coordinators will report on their activities to the county and sub-county
committees. The DEC would keep the district development and district planning committees
informed about the extension program.



Figure 1. PROPOSED ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF MAAIF
|   PERRIIEX  SECRETARY      - 
|   SECRET^Rr CF AGRICULTURE   I                                                                         |SECRETARY (DIRECTOR
.       .                                                                        1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GEEItRAL  AO
L L    U   S~~~~~~DIECO   DIRECTOR  DIRCTO
TECR~NICAL      TRAINING B            EXTENSION               REGULATION            POLICY AND
SERVICE          INFORMATION                      I           AND PROTECTION        PLANNING
AD  IEVP.                                  .
ADZONE1             ASSIST              ASSIST            CHIEF
ASSIST                                   DIRECTOR            DIRECTOR           PERSONNEL
DIRECTOR  F--         DIRECTOR                                  TSETSE              PROJECT           OFFICER                                                             o
VETERINAR |INFORMA-                        r                    _PLANNING 
TION &               AZN2 
lASSIST             ASSIST              CHIEF
|ASSIT.    I                               r        ,         |DIRECTOR            DIRECTOR           ADMINISTRATIVE
DIRECTOR  I                                IADZONE3            CROP                AGRICULTURE        OFFICER
ANIMAL                ASSIST                                   PRODUCTION          PLANNING
PRODUCTION            DIRECTOR
.     *         I~~~AG.COLLEGES1 
| |& DFISN                              ASSIST               ASSIST            CHIEF
|ASSIST    I  I                        I                      IDIRECTOR             DIRECTOR          ACCOUNTANTS
|DIRELTOR   H                                                  ANIMAL       I       | & E      I
FISHERIES             ASSIST                                   PRODUCTION
DIRECTORADOE
VTIS
|ASSIST    I  I                                     I          |ASSIST
gDIRECTOR   I-                             gADZONE6             DIRECTOR
BCROPS     I                               I        e          IFISHERIES
PRODUCTION



- 81 -
A2nnex 5b
Page I of 5
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Management Development Programs
MAAIF has been recently created through the merger of two Ministries, MOA and MAIF. The smooth
management and working relationships have not yet been fully established at the headquarters or district
level. GOU's proposed decentralization of responsibilities to districts as well as the proposed activities
under the project would pose additional management challenges for MAAIF at all levels.
The project would support in-country short term management development programmes and workshops
on team building and implementation, both at the headquarters as well as district levels. Two types of
management development programs would be organized: (i) general management and (ii) fiinctional
management programs.
The general management programs would be designed to expose the senior and district level management
staff to various functional areas of management with a view to promote an integrated view of the
extension project in relation to overall objectives. The functional management programs would be
designed to build skills of particular functional tasks among those who are charged with those tasks both
at headquarters as well as at the district levels. The detailed brief on the proposed programs is presented
below:
A. General Management Programs/Workshops
It is proposed to organize three general management programs for headquarter top management as
well as district staff as shown in attached tables.
1. Top Management Workshop
The Workshops would be organized to expose the top management of MAAIF to the
concepts drawn from various functional areas of management and also discuss the policy
issues in the implementation of the project. After the initial 2 days workshops in the first
year, a follow up would be organized for one day each in the second, third and fourth years.
Appropriate teaching material would be specially prepared for the workshops.
2. Management Development Program for District Extension Ofricers
The program would be designed to expose the District Exvension Officers to the concepts
from various functional areas of management and the application of the same to the task of
extension management in the context of unified extension systems at the district, county and
sub-county levels. It is proposed to organize two programmes (one in the firs: year and the
other in the third year of the project). In between, a follow up program  gould be organized
to review the problems in the application of the concepts to the operations. Appropriate
training/discussion material would be dev eloped in advance.



- 82--                         Annex-b
Page 2 of 5
3. Management Development Programs on Team building at District levels
The idea of unified extension system has to take roots. This program would be conducted
at 3 locations covering two to three district teams at each location. The techniques of team
building would be imparted to all district level functionaries including the Subject Matter
Specialists. This would be followed up in the subsequent year with the discussion of the
problems of working as a team for a common objective in relation to farmers. Organization
behavior as well as IPR (Inter Personal Relation) techniques would be used and relevant
training material would be developed in advance.
B. Functional Managemnent Programs
It is proposed to organize five functional management programs to improve the skills of the
concerned headquarter and district level personnel (Annex I & 2).
4. Management Development Program on Budgeting and Accounting
This is an area of particular weakness in MAAIF. The Accounting Systems gave rise to a
lack of financial control and the system suffers from arbitrary allocation decisions.
Improvement is also necessary in financial management functions that integrate project funds
into national programs and that use existing information for organizational and program
problem solving and decision making. This management development program aims at the
upgrading of skills of both headquarter staff as well as the district level accounts personnel.
The initial training program will be followed by one day workshop to analyze the constraint
in budgeting and accounting systems and to make recommendations on improvements.
3. Management Workshop on Procurement Systems
This is also an area of weakness at MAAIF. At present, there is hardly any expertise at
MAAIF in handling the procurement of goods and equipment and construction activities.
This task is largely handled by the Central Tender Board (CTB). This Workshop would be
designed to strengthen the capability for handling procurement matters within MAAIF. The
proposed recruitment of a procurement specialist wou.d also facilitate in organizing the
workshop involving not only headquarter staff but also district level staff.
6. Program on Computer Applications
The Project has provision for making available computers to various functionaries at MAAIF,
including the personnel of M & E Unit. This program would be pitched at the users level,
particularly at the level of tamiliarity with the use of existing packages. Relevant handouts
and application to various sections in the headquarters and M & E would be demonstrat-4.
7. Programs on Monitoring and Evaluation of Extension Activities
This program wouid be designed to upgrade capabilities of M & E personne! at Headquarters
and also at district and County levels in data collection, analysis and reporting. They will
also be exposed to thc basic concepts of management information system and the
requirements for semi annual and annual progress reports. The initial program would be



- 83 -                        Annex 5b
Page 3 of 5
followed up by a workshop in the subsequent year to review the problems in day to day
applications of the concepts.
S. Management Program on Media Planning and Use of Extension Projects
The design of the message and the medium to be used are crucial to the extension projects.
The project also has the facility of a fully equipped mobile van to generate new materials and
to disseminate the existing relevant material. This program would be designed to expose the
concerned personnel at the headquarters, district level and the DFIs in planning and use of
media for strengthening the extension activities for crops, livestock and fisheries. The initial
program would be followed up by one day workshop in the second year for further
improvement of the skills imparted.
9.    Implementation Arrangements
The Mission identified a local institution, the Management Training and Advisory Centre
(MTAC) at Nakawa, Kampala as a possible institution to assist MAAIF in organizing the
above mentioned programs. MTAC was set up under the Ministry of Industries but it has
been given substantial operating autonomy over the years. It has considerable experience in
organizing management training programs for senior/middle level executives/officials.
MTAC has received assistance in the past from various external donors and its capability is
currently being further strengthened with Austrian Aid. MAAIF and MTAC would enter into
a Memorandum of Understanding which would establish the conditions and responsibilities
of both agencies in carrying out the proposed management development program. MAAIF
would negotiate with MTAC on the course fees approve the contents, teaching materials and
monitor the implementation of the programmes.
The services of Management Specialists (Consultant) would be financed under the project to
work with MTAC in designing and executing the proposed programmes. The services of the
Management Specialist would be procured suffiently in advance (under the PPF) so that
management training is properly organized using the relevant teaching materials developed
for this purpose.



Annex Sb
Page 4 of S
PHASING OF MANAGEMENT TRAMING PROGRAMMES
Mmaeniet Training                        First Year                               Second Year                                Third Year                            Fourth Year
PrgranmesWorkhbops         _     _    _     _      _
Duration    Leves of         Expeed    Duration    Level of            Expected    Duration    Level of         Expected     Duration   Level of      Expected
______________  __ _ hPardiZipants  No.             _   Participants       No.                     Participants     No.                     Participants   No.
A. Gener Maagement                _
L   Top Mansgemnt         2 days      Permanent              30    I day        Same as in the          30    I day       Same  s in the          30    I day      Sme a3 in          30
Worshop                          Secretary,                                first year                                fust year                                the
S,xretaty,                                                                                                                   fist year
Directo of
Agri. Directors
Of
aU ltber
departnts,
Commussioners,
Asa.
Conunisonrs,
jXinimc, 
Ac-counts
Officers, Proc.
Specialist                               __
2.  Mamgement              6 days     16 Distaict             25    I day       Same as in the          25   6 days       Same s i the            30    I day      Follow-up          30
Development                      Extension                                first year                                 first year,                              for all
Prorgrmme for                    Ofricers and                                                                        except the                               DEOs
Distict Extension                with                                                                                principals of                            and
ODicers                           elected                                                                            DFb, not                                 Principals
principals of                                                                       laid by the first                       of DFIs.
of DFIs.                                  I__    _  _  __                 _   _     programt._         _   _  _  _  _  ___                     _  _
3.  Management
Development
Progrmsm on Team
Building at District
level
a) First proga,r,          3 days     District                12    I day       Same as in firt         12
Off'cers                                 year
frorm 2 selected
districts
>~



Annex Sb
Page 5 of 5
b) Secoad prom             3 days     District                12    I day       Sameas in firmt         12
Officers                                 year
fiom 2 selctd
districts
|c) lbird program          3 days     Disuric                 12    I day       Same as in first        12
Officers                                 year
from 2 selected
L ___________________                districts                                _
B. Functional Management Programs
4.  Management             3 days     Finance and             20    I day       Same as in first        25
Development                       Accounts                                 year
Programs on                      peuwmed at
Budgeting and                     Headquaners of
Accounting                        MAAIF and
district officers
S.  Management             2 days     Ptocuremcnt             25    1 day       Same as in first        25
Worksshop on                      Persnel at                               year
Procurement System               headquarters
and also at                                                                                                                                           ao
district level               _
6.  Pmognm on              5 days     M & E Unit              20    5 days      Same as in frst         20    5 days      Same as in              20
Computer                          Persond and                              year                                      first year
Applications                     aD dicer
headquatters
petn Iel
_un  conputer
7.  Pogram on              3 days     M & E Unit              20    I day       Same as in firt
Monitorng and                    personnel and                 (follow-up   year
Evaluation of                    distri                        )
Extension Activities             and country
staff
of M & E
8.  Management progrm    3 days       Selected HQ             20    I day       Another set of          20    I day       Follow-up       40
no media Planinwg                staff and district                        selected officials                        worshop for
use in extension                  extension                                                                          all person
prjects                          officers                                  fon HQ and                                trained in
______                        ______  ______  DFIs.                                             previous years
o UE



- 86 -
Annex Sc
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Management Terms of References
A. Terms of Reference for Management Training and Advisory Center, Kampala
Objective
1.    The objective of the assignment would be to improve management efficiency in MAAIF through
(i) a diagnostic study of management development needs at various levels, (ii) design and execution of
the management development programs identified by MAAIF, and (iii) follow-up on the impact of the
training.
Scope of Work
2.    The MTAC would:
(a)    Undertake a diagnostic study of the management development needs of headquarters and
district-level extension personnel, identify appropriate case leads and teaching materials,
and prepare a time schedule for organizing the identified programs.
(b)   Develop appropriate teaching/training materials for each management-development
program.
(c)    Develop questionnaires for feedback/evaluation of the program by the participants.
(d)   Submit an overall report for each program including the feedback of the participants on
the design of the program, appropriateness of teaching materials/handouts, and
presentation and discussion in the programs.
(e)    Undertake follow-up workshops in subsequent years and assist the participants in the
application of the concepts taught in their work situations.
(f)    Assist MAAIF in the operations of management systems and procedures for functional
management structure at the headquarters.
(g)   Work in a close collaboration with the internationilly recruited management specialist at
strengthening the management systems and procedures of MAAIF.
(h)    Assist the mid-term  project review team  in the evaluation of the management
development component.



- 87 -
Annex Sc
Page 2 of 3
(i)    Assist MAAIF in any other task assigned to it in relation to improvement of efficiency
of management services.
Budgetary Approvals
3.    The MTAC would be requested to prepare a detailed budget for each task covering: a) diagnostic
work; b) each of the eight programs identified and follow-up workshops; c) assistance to MAAIF in
streamlining management systems and procedures, particularly in the context of functional organization
structure at headquarters rather than commodity-based specialization, and d) any other task assigned by
MAAIF. The budget would contain the MTAC fee for its faculty time and travel costs. The other costs
of the programs would be: i) travel cost of participants to and from the venue of the program; ii)
honoraria for attending the workshop/programs, and iii) boarding and lodging arrangements. The travel
costs and honorarium to participants would be paid directly by the MAAIF. MAAIF may ask MTAC
to include boarding and lodging arrangements in its cost. The MTAC faculty fee and the boarding and
lodging arrangements of the participants would then be approved by MAAIF for each program/workshop
under an overall Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between MTAC and MAAIF.
Reporting
4.    MTAC would report to the Director of Agriculture, MAAIF, and all budgeting approvals would
be processed by the Director of Agriculture. The program designs and suggested pedagogy would also
be approved by the Director of Agriculture, MAAIF. The MTAC would be required to submit evaluation
reports of each program/workshop to the Director of Agriculture, MAAIF.
Duration of the Assignment
5.    The MAAIF would enter into an MOU with MTAC for a period beginning September 1, 1992,
and ending in December 31, 1996. All the activities of management development assigned to MTAC by
the MAAIF would be under this MOU but the design and budget for each program/workshop would be
separately approved.
B.    Terms of References for Management Specialist (Consultant)
Objective
6.    The objective of the assignment would be to improve management capacity and procedures in
MAAIF through technical support to the Management Training and Advisory Center in developing
appropriate teaching materials and in executing the management training programs.
Scope Of Work
(a)    Assist MTAC in assessing the management-training needs of the senior headquarters staff
of MAAIF and also the staff at the district levels.
(b)    Assist MTAC in designing suitable management-training programs/workshop for various
levels of functionaries.



-88 -
Annex Se
Page 3 of 3
(c)    Guide the faculty of MTAC in developing case studies and other teaching materials
suitable for management-training programs designed for various levels in MAAIF and at
the districts included under AEP.
(d)    Assist MAAIF in proper adherence to systems and procedures for implementation of the
AEP.
(e)    Assist MAAIF in selecting the suitable training methodology and actual conduct of
programs/workshops
(f)    Assist MAAIF in assessing the quality of management-training programs to be organized
by MTAC.
(g)    Assist MAAIF in setting up a human resource development system  so that the
management capability at all levels in MAAIF is strengthened.
Terms of Assignment
7.    The duration of the assignment would be for six months spaced over three years and may be
carried out by one or more management specialists provided the total amount does not exceed six person-
months. It is recommended that the services be obtained from an internationally recognized management
training institute.
Qualifications
a.   Education
The specialist(s) should have a Ph.d. degree in management/agricultural economics/sociology.
b.   Experience
Should have demonstrated skills and experience of organizing management-training programs for
agricultural sector management personnel. A proven ability to develop case studies and other
relevant training materials for agricultural sector projects would be needed.
Duty Station
Entebbe, Uganda
Reporting
8.    The Management Specialist would report to the Director of Agriculture, MAAIF, and work in
close collaboration with MTAC. The MAAIF would provide work space, secretarial assistance, a
telephone, vehicle, and office equipment for use.



- 89 -                      Annex 6a
Page 1 of 4
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Financial and Accounting Systems
A. Organization of the Finance and Accounts Unit
1.    Conforming to the overall management concept for the project, the Finance and Accounts
Unit (FAU) of the AEP would form part of the regular accounting department, MAAIF - which
needs to be strengthened. The Accounting Department is constrained by a shortage of qualified
trained accounting staff, mainly because of incentive problems. Another constraint is the current
practice whereby accounting staff belong to a "professional cadre" controlled by the Ministry of
Finance and are rotated on three to two year assignments among ministries. While this practice
may have some Advantages for professional growth, it hinders the development of strong financial
and accounting capacity within MAAIF. It is therefore proposed under the project to recruit
(through local procurement procedures at a competitive salary) a qualified Financial Officer to
head the FAU. (Terms of reference are in Annex 6b). At the Mid-Term Review, or earlier,
depending on progress with the MSP salary review and restructuring exercise, it would be
determined if this position should be incorporated into the regular establishment of MAAIF. The
Financial Officer would be assisted by three supporting financial staff of MAAIF. These staff
would be trained in financial procedures accounting, etc., under the management training
component (Annex 5b), along with the district staff who have accounting responsibilities.
B. Basic Principles of the Financial and Accounting System
2.    The financial and accounting system that would be followed by the project would be
guided by the following documents:
(a)    Treasury Accounting Regulations, 1991 (TAR)
(b)    Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
'c)    Disbursement Letter from the Disbursement Division, World Bank
(d)    World Bank Guidelines on Withdrawal from the IDA Credit proceeds
(e)    World Bank Guidelines on Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed
by IDA/World Bank
(f)    Financial and Accounting Manual.
3.    The accounts of the project would be maintained in a double-entry bookkeeping system.



- 90 -
Annex 6a
Page 2 of 4
C. Financial and Accounting Manual
4.    A fairly comprehensive Financial and Accounting Manual, explaining the contents of the
first five of the above documents and the activities involved, the procedures to be followed, and
the formats to be used has been prepared and explained to the extension management and present
accounting staff (a copy is available in the project file). The manual would be reviewed again
with staff during the Project Launch Mission.
5.    The manual covers, inter alia, the following subjects, a short synopsis for each of which
is given under its heading:
(a)    Account maintenance methodology: The project would use double-entry system
of bookkeeping. Initially, it would be on a cash basis, because the current staff
may not be able to cope with accrual-basis accounting. Of course, the accrual
items would be incorporated in the periodic statements of accounts to reflect a fair
view of the finances. A simple flow chart explains the process of accounting
entry recording.
(b)    Accounting Codes: The accounting heads would be in line with the SAR cost
tables and would bear numerical codes to reflect the distinction among the
component, category, foreign or local cost (optional), investment or recurrent
cost, and expenditure or source head (with sufficient digits allotted to provide
room for flexibility and future expansion). This would facilitate possible future
computerization of accounts.
(c)    Accounting source documents: The accounting source documents would consist
of petty cash receipt/payment voucher, district bank receipt/payment voucher,
project bank receipt/payment voucher, special account receipt/payment voucher
and journal voucher (to account for withdrawal applications, supplies issues, etc.)
(d)    Accounting books: The accounting books would consist of a petty cash book,
district bank account book, project bank account book, special account book,
journal booc, staff advances sub-ledger, accounts receivable sub-ledger, accounts
payable sub-ledger, and a main ledger.
(e)    Statements of Account: The statements of account would consist of trial balance,
operating expenditure statement, balance sheet, source and application of funds,
statement of accounts receivable, statement of accounts payable, inventory of fixed
assets and inventory of stores and stocks.
(f)    Memoranda/analysis registers: The memoranda/analysis registers that would
serve as sources of information and control points would consist of the following:
(i)     Withdrawal Application Register
(ii)    Special Account Analysis Register
(iii)    SOE Analysis Register
(iv)    Letter-of-Credit Register
(v)     Contracts Register
(vi)    Accounts Receivable Register



-91-                           Annex 6a
Page 3 of 4
(vii)    Accounts Payable Register
(viii)   Fixed Assets Register
%iix)   Non-consumable Stock Register
(x)     Consumable Stock Register
(xi)    IDA Credit Proceeds Reconciliation Register
(xii)    Special Account Reconciliation Register
(xiii)   Project Bank Account Reconciliation Register
(xiv)    District Bank Reconciliation Register
(xv)    Vehicle Log Book
(g)    Budget and budgetary control: This section t lains the activities involved, the
time frame, the forms to be completed and the procedures to be followed with
reference to the first advance and subsequent monthly/quarterly disbursements to
be received from the GOU. A flow chart is incorporated for easy understanding.
The project management has been alerted on the head to get a budget line item
incorporated under Capital Expenditure Section 2 for the project. 1'he budgetary
control would have reference points at the cost tables, annual work plan (for the
AEP), and annual budget.
(h)    Flow of GOU Funds: A detailed flow chart explains the process and timing of
the flow of funds from the GOU.
(i)    Withdrawals from IDA Credit, under different procedures: The contents of
the World Bank Guidelines with particular reference to the project and the
contents of the Disbursement Letter, have been explained and are supported by a
flow chart.
(j)    Special account transactions, including replenishment: This often-complicated
subject has been explained in detail and is supported by a flow chart.
(k)    Project and district bank account transactions: The bank account operations
are explained and supported by a flow chart.
()    Statement-of-expenditure (SOE) transactions: These are explained in detail and
supported by a flow chart.
(m)   Documentation and record keeping: Detailed instructions on requirements have
been incorporated in the manuals.
(n)   Internal Control: The project would follow the internal control procedures set
out in the Treasury Accounting Regulations (1991) by MFEP. Additional internal
control measures would be incorporated wherever necessary.
(o)   Internal Audit: Creation of an internal audit departmnent within MAAIF is not
presently contemplated. The staff of the Auditor General's office (at its
headquarters and in the MAAIF) would continue to perform this function as per
current practice.



- 92 -                        Annex Ca
Page 4 of 4
(p)    External Audit: The Auditor General's office performs this function in Uganda.
The bunching of government and project audits and staff strength/capability result
in backlogs. If delays are envisaged, the auditor general's office would sub-
contract the audit responsibility to private external auditors. The audit documents
would be in line witi the World Bank guidelines.
(q)    Bank account opening procedures: A set of steps to be followed for the opening
of the special account, project bank account, and district bank accounts has been
given to the project management and explained to the accounting staff in order to
avoid ary delays in using the GOU and IDA finds for project implementation
starting from the PPF stage.
(r)    Formats: The contents and formats have been drawn up for each of the
envisaged documents.



-93 -
Annex 6b
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
AGRICIULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Financial Officer
Introduction
1.    The Government of Uganda has identified a need in the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF) to have a Financial Officer to provide services in the area of
financial management. The appointment of a financial controfler/analyst would be an effort to
strengthen its capacity to handle financial activities of projects executed under the newly formed
ministry.
Objectives
2.    The objectives of this assignment would be to assist MAAIF in carrying out financial
management responsibilities under the proposed extension project and other projects handled by
MAAIF. The assignment would enable MAAIF to effectively coordinate and manage the
financial functions of all its projects by working under the general directives of the Government
of Uganda and liaising with other concerned ministries, banks, donors and government
authorities. The financial controller will have technical authority (on financial matters) over all
officers in the areas of project accounts and finances.
Scope of Work
3.    The Financial Officer would:
(a)    Supervise the operation of the project accounting systems of MAAIF.
(b)    Ensure the timely production of accounting data in support of the project
Management Information Systems (MIS) which he is to set up along with the
Planning Department.
(c)    Prepare financial statements as part of the project periodic reporting arrangements
and submit to MAAIF management and IDA.
(d)    Arrange for the timely issue of the project alidited accounts and submit to
MAAIF management and IDA.
(e)    Translate the annual work programs inio budget terms and participate in all
discussions with technical departments relating to annual budgetary allocations.



- 94-                            Annex 6b
Page 2 of 2
(f)    Organize and supervise the operations of project budgetary and internal control
systems of MAAIF.
(g)    Coordinate the project funding operations and ensure the availability of finance
through timely submission of funding requests to project financing institutions.
(h)    Liaise with the procurement specialist in the area of procurement of goods and
works, and contracts of Consultant services.
(i)   Impart training in financial management and accounting systems to other staff,
as designated by MAAIF.
Qualifications
A.  Education
A University degree in Accounting from a recognized institution or professional body
(AA, ACCA, ICSA, or PA).
B.  Experience
At least ten years experience in a senior position in a large organization with multiple
business activities, or in the Civil Service.
Demonstrated ability to handle in an effective manner complex issues dealing with funds
management on a decentralized basis. Previous experience in financial management of
IDA - or similar international-organization-funded projects will be an added advantage.
Duty Station
Entebbe, Uganda
Reporting
4.    The Financial Officer would report to the permanent secretary, MAAIF, in all aspects
of financial functions. MAAIF will provide the work space, secretarial assistance, telephone, and
office equipment.
Duration of Assignment
5.    The initial contract would be for twelve months and would be extended each year up to
thirty-six months, subject to satisfactory performance as evaluated at the end of each year. There
is a possibility that MAAIF might make this position permanent - if the objectives are achieved
as expected in the first three years of operation and depending on the recommendations of the
ongoing restructuring and Civil Service refcrm program.



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR CIVIL WORKS
MEHMD    Esrl-                   1992                 1993                 1994          -      1995                 199                  1997
pc.  DISCRETION      OF    MATED
G2.    1KKOFWORK(S     PROCURE   COST                                                                                                                                    _
MEN4T  ($m)ENr3S4 
FeN,CLS & DLSAPRIL
Houses and Relhab                                       129                  78      9      01
Ci    atKUMI,JINJA        ICB    0.657  REVISED  |                      2     5    s m                   2
IGAN.GA, TORORO,                    ArA
MBALE & MUKONO
-2    -do-at APAC,                       APPRAISAL
INMI & GULU            ICB    0.4    REVI21 S
|   PPOCUREMBJTACTFIJSACT 
-do-atAPRIL
C-3 KIMBALE, HOIMA &.  lCB    0.646  RME
KABAROLE
-do-at RUKIJNGIRIAPRIL
C-4 BUSH4ENYIKISORO    GSB 0.541  REVISED                            1             4    871 IIONI P            12                                                                     @
MASAKAIATL
C-5 Ho'adj   sruildn   ICEBS)                                           2
5~~~~~n 5ia OfE BAGS
Minor RepairsAPRIL
0-6   of DE,ET & SMS    LCB    0.158
Houses                          REVIED
0-7        Land           ls      00
Developmnent      PGB     0.0
PROCUREMENT ACTIONS 
1 INITTEPREPARATONOFSPECFATION8AND BID DOCUMS                   9 CONSTRUCTION 25% COMPLETE        METHOD OF PROCU99AENT                                                    IC
2 TrIANSMrT SPECFIRATIONS AND BID DOCUMENTSTO IDA              10 COSRUTO 5.3* COPLT                                                                                         (D -ISEINTO    OPTIIEBDIGX
SIDA CLEARANCE OF SPE-CIFICATION AND BID DOCtIMINTS           1  O  TRCIN                               D OPLr  O- INTECALOPTIOACMPTIVEEBIDDING
I ISSUE INVITATION TO BID                                      12 CONSTRUCTION 100% COMPLETE               -FREAOIT
S OPEN BIDS        RPR  N                                                                               A-FREACIJ
S TRANSMIT EAUTORPFrNDAWARtD RECOMMENDATIONS TO IDA
7 IDA CLEARANCE OF RECOMMUNDATION                                                                                                                         EIOWS100OA
S AWARD CONTRACT



UGANDA
AGRICULTUMRL EXTENSION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
______              M40    E_9f                   1A992              193                 1 994               1       899      1                     1 997
E       VEHILES          l       1.0   |EV  D             1   234    5 7 7 8          1i
LE SL Vehidas |Sh;| ° F9=~I! I   1  11                                   II      .I    II         1t8    11  11 1    1.  i 11L  g  W 
E-3      FuRmiture                     APPRAD                     1 l          0 in,
V    and Farm Tools    LCB    0.1   RESED
W                                    L                                     XI   0  t II [ XXI ACTUA
Local         A,RIA
E-6       Vehicles     Shopp    0.1    WE                        0
-F                      lg
PROCUREd9ENTACTIONS                                                                                                                                                   i-' D
|1 INITITE PREPARATION OF SPCFICAiONS AND BID DOCttAlBNlS  9 CONSTRUClC0N25% COMlPLETE      METNOD OFPROCURBAB4T
12 TRANSMITSPECIFICAIONS ANDBID DOCUMBETSTO IDA            10 CONStRUWCTIN5IlC4PLETE            ICB. U4TERIS flONLCOIIPERh1VE BIDDING                                 P
|  IDA CLEARANE OF PECIFPicION AND BID OOcaFNTs            t1 CONSRcON7mYoCOPLETE                __ -  ICAL COMPETIiVE BIDDING
4 ISSUE INVIWION TO BID                                    12 CONSTAL    100%COMPLrE             FA - FORCE ACOOtNT
1 5 OPF E BIDS
Fa6 TRoNSMIT EVAnATIN REPORTAND AWARD RECOVISEDATIONS TO IDA



Annex 7b
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Procurement Specialist
Introduction
1.    The Govermnent of Uganda has identified a need in the Ministry of Agri^ulture, Animal
Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF) for a procurement specialist to provide services in the area of
procurement of goods and works, and conitracts for consultant services. The appointment of a
procurement specialist is an effort to strengthen capability to handle procurement activities of
projects executed under the newly formed ministry.
Objective
2.    The objective of this assignment would be to assist MAAIF in carrying out procurement
covered under the proposed extension project and other projects handled by MAAIF. The
assignrment would enable MAAIF to effectively coordinate and manage procurement functions of
all its projects by working under the general directives of the Government of Uganda and liaising
with other concerned ministries, contractors, donors, and governmental authorities.
Scope of Work
3.    The procurement specialist would:
(a)    Formulate in timely time procurement plans for each year of implementation and
an overall indicative plan for four years for the Agriculture Extension Project
(AEP).
(b)    Review in detail existing procedures of all implementing agencies participating
in ongoing projects, and suggest methods of improvement for better planning and
management. Coordinate with timely procurement according to the projects'
implementation schedules.
(c)    Carry out daily operation of procurement functions for the AEP to include
preparation of invitations to bid, action on advertisements, preparation of bidding
documents, technical and price evaluations of bids, recommendations for awards,
contract awards, monitoring of delivery schedules, and performance of contracts
until expiry of warranty/defect liability period(s) and payments to contractors.
Develop systems and procedures to ensure that procurement is carried out
according to World Bank guidelines and procedures acceptable to the IDA.



- 98 -
Annex 7b
Page 2 of 3
(d)    Develop, install, and maintain reporting systems and up-to-date information on
all procurement activities under the project. Submit reports as required by
MAAIF and IDA.
(e)    Coordinate efforts of consultants, contractors, and proji t officials in
procurement functions.
()f   Liaise with accounts in the preparation of withdrawal applications before
forwarding them to IDA.
(g)    Monitor commiLnients and disbursements of project components.
(h)    Assist MAAIF in handling all contractual issues or disputes with contractors that
arise under contracts.
(i)   Impart training in procurement to other staff and provide assistance to other
projects, as designated by MAAIF.
Qualifications
s.  Education
The procurement specialist should hold university degree in any one of the following
fields: (i) engineering; (ii) economics; (iii) accounting; (iv) law; or (v) procurement.
b.  Experience
Should have demonstrated skills and seven years' experience in procurement - reflecting
a high level of management responsibility a. d the following skills:
(i)     An ability to develop and operate procurement reporting systems
on computers; a-d
(ii)     Good communication skills in the English language
Work experience in developing countries and a knowledge of World Bank procurement
procedures would be of added advantage.
Duty Station
Entebbe, Uganda
Reporting
4.    The Procurement Specialist would report to the permanent secretary, MAAIF, on all
aspects of procurement functions. MAAIF would provide the work space, secretarial assistance,
and telephone and office equipment for use.



- 99 -
Annex 7b
Page 3 of 3
Duration of Assignment
5.    It is envisaged that the assignment would be for thirty-six months. The initial contract
will be for twelve months and will be extended each year up to thirty-six months, subject to
satisfactory performance, as evaluated at the end of each year. MAAIF may eventually make this
position permanent - if the objectives are achieved as expected in the first three years of operation
and depending on the recommendations of the ongoing study on salary review and restructuring.



- 100-                        Annex7c
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Exte!ision Terms of Reference for a Civil Engineering Consultant Firm
Introduction
1.    The Government of Uganda has identified a need for the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF) to procure the services of a firm to provide architectural
engineers and construction supervisors to assist MAAIF in the preparation of designs, Bills of
Quantities and supervise construction and rehabilitation works to be undertaken under the
Agricultural Extension Project (AEP).
Objective
2.    The objective of this assignment would be to assist MAAIF in the civil works component
of AEP, which includes new construction and rehabilitation works. 1/
Scope of Work
(a)    Conduct site inspections and a survey of various District Farm Institutes,
Bukalasa Agricultural College, district offices, and county-level offices, and
define the rehabilitation works needed, as proposed in the survey report.
(b)    Produce site plans, sketches, designs/drawings for new construction, and bills of
quantity for all new construction and rehabilitation works proposed under the
project.
(c)    Prepare a detailed work plan and schedules based on the implementation program
for timely completion of works.
(d)    Liaise with the procurement specialist in the production of bidding documents
and other logistics to be approved by MAAIF and IDA as per agreed guidelines.
(e)    Liaise with the concerned ministries/bodies, Ministry of Housing, CTB, etc., as
necessary in various approvals - such as design, drawing, and clearances for
awards of contracts.
1/    This is the general terms of reference for the civil works packages of the project which
will cover in total 16 districts, rehabilitation of Bukalasa Agricultural College and
Headquarters office facilities.



- 1oJs _
Annex 7c
Page 2 of 2
(f)    Assist MAAIF in making recommendations for award and selection of
construction contractors.
(g)    Supervise the construction and rehabilitation works at the proposed sites until the
defect liability period and carry out all other responsibilities required as engineers
for the employer - such as measurements, certification of payments, submission
of payments to the contractor, inspection of quality and quantity of works, and
verification of conformity with contract documents.
(h)    Assist the Procurement Specialist of MAAIF in handling all contractual issues or
disputes that may arise between the employer and contractors.
(i)    Provide the quarterly estimates and reports on completed works and proposed
plans for the next quarter, as well as semi-annual reports to be furnished to
MAAIF management and IDA.
Qualifications
a.  Education
The Architectural and Supervision Consultants seconded by the Firm should have
minimum degrees in Civil Engineering/Architectural Engineering.
b.  Experience
The firm should have demonstrated skilis and experience in design and supervision or
similar works of at least ten. The evaluation criteria with particular reference to factors
such as quality of personnel proposed for the assignment will form the integral part of
the consultant's qualification.
Duty Station
Entebbe, Uganda
Reporting
3.    The consultant of the firm will report to tLe Permanent Secretary, MAAIF. The MAAIF
will provide the work space and secretarial assistance.
Duration of Assignment
4.    The duration of assignment will be initially for six person-months, with the possibility
of extension for another six person-months.



i102_
Annex 8a
Page 1 of 4
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation System
Introduction
1.    Once extension activities have been planned and tasks assigned to district, county, and
sub-county functionaries, the project line management at all levels would require information on
the implementation performance (process variables) of Jhe extension program. They would also
require information on the effectiveness (impact variables) of the extension activities.
Management needs answers to the following questions:
(a)    Are the extension services being o4"ered as planned ?
(b)    Are the extension services being used by the farmers as planned"
(c)    Are the farmers adopting the recommendations and, if ,aot, why not?
2.    An operational monitoring and evaluation system would be implemented to provide
project management with current information on the operations of the extension program and also
on its effectiveness. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&E) would be l(,cated within the
Economic Planning Department, MAAIF. The unit would be headed by a senior officer and
would have a deputy head and two support staff. M&E would assign an officer at the district
level and an investigator in selected counties. M&E staff would work closely with and assist the
extension staff in compiling the reports described in the sections below. The M&E unit would
be responsible for coordinating the current operational information on the extension program as
well as the evaluation of the impact of the program. M&E would also be build a data base for
extension and service the information requirements of MAAIF management, as well as IDA.
3.    Training would be provided to the Unit staff in questionnaire design, social science
research methodology, interview techniques, data, processing and report writing.
Monitoring of the Implementation of the Extension Program
4.    It is proposed to monitor the implementation of the extension program through brief
standardized reports from - staff starting with the FEWs and with consolidation at each level of
management. Indicative standardized formats for each level of reporting already exist or have
been prepared and are in the project file. The proposed levels of data recording and type of data
collected are as follows:



_ 103 _
Annex Sa
Page 2 of 4
(a)    Fleld Level
(i)     Diaries of Field Extension Workers
Field extension workers would be required to maintain diaries of
their activities in relation to the visits to farmer groups,
attendance at the meetings, demonstrations conducted, visits by
the supervisors, and other happenings in the area.  This
information would be recorded in a standardized format.
(ii)     Monthly Reports by Field Extension Workers to Counties
Each field extension worker would be asked to submit th.e
information from the diaries in a standardized form on a monthly
basis and send it to the county extension officer.
(iii)     Monthly Report by County Extension Officer
Each County Extension Officer would consolidate the
information from the FEWs, add their observations from the
visits, and send them to the District Extension Officer once a
month in a standardized format.
(b)    District Level
(i)     Monthly Report by the Principal of DFIs
DFI's would be expected to play a crucial role in organizing
training programs for district, county and field extension workers
a on monthly basis. The DFIs would also conduct demonstrations
and provide a research-extension linkage. The DFI Principal
would be asked to report their activities to district extension
officers.
(ii)     Monthly Report by District Extension Officer
Each district extension officer with assistance from the M & E
officer, would further consolidate the information from the
county extension Officer and add the information on funds
received and used, the training imparted by DFIs (if applicable),
vehicles and equipment received, and houses rehabilitated. This
information would be submitted to the Zonal Assistant
Commissioner Extension and copied to M & E at headquarters.



- 104 -
Annex 8a
Page 3 of 4
(iii)    Monthly Report by Finance and Accounts Division to M & E
Unit
The Finance and Accounts Division of MAAIF would be
expected to arrange travel and performance allowances for all
the extension personnel at the sub-county, county, and district
level. They would be required to report the actual fund releases
according to the target derived from the work plan on a
standardized format.
(e)    Headquarters Level
(i)     Monthly Report by Procurement Division headquarters of
MAAIFtoM&E
Procurement Division at the headquarters of MAAIF would be
expected to procure vehicles, office equipment, computers, and
other supplies. The division would also be required to monitor
the construction and rehabilitation of civil works. This division
would be requested to send a monthly report on the achievements
against the targets to M & E, which in turn would disseminate
the information to all concerned as needed.
(ii)     Compilation of Jnformation by Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
at Headquarters
The M&E Unit at the MAAIF would consolidate the information
on implementation of the Extension Program in all the districts
and also add any impact or other relevant information available.
This report would then be sent to the Director of Agriculture and
the Permanent Secretary, MAAIF, for remedial action, if
necessary.
Evaluation of the Extension Program
5.    M&E Unit would compile the benchmark data for the project area from the agricultural
census which has just been conducted by the MAAIF. The M&E Unit would also conduct an
Impact and Evaluation Survey at the end of each season. The main focus of the survey would
be on arriving the adoption rates and also the readoption rates. It will also try to ascertain
reasons for non adoptions so that appropriate changes in the strategy may be made in the next
season.
Special Studies
6.    At the end of about ten years, a comprehensive study would be undertaken to identify
problems and constraints, and, assess the effectiveness of specific components of the extension
system - visits, training, research-extension linkages, focus on women, and role played by the



- 105 -
Annex 8a
Page 4 of 4
contract farmers. The M&E Unit would also conduct studies on the efficiency of various
extension communication methodologies in the selected districts.
Management Information System
7.    The above-mentioned monitoring and evaluation reports would help M&E to generate the
necessary data base. An appropriate management information system would be set up at
headquarters where the information and data would be processed and reported in a simple format
(designed differently for each level of officers) and as frequently as needed for decision-making.
Personnel at the operating level - (district extension officers, subject matter specialists, and county
and sub-county staff) would get the required information from the monitoring reports described
above. At headquarters, the different levels of management involved with the overall unified
extension would be informed through reports to two committees:
(i)          The Policy Committee chaired by the Minister of MAAIF, with the
permanent secretary and department heads as members.
(ii)         The Senior Officers Committee, (chaired by the secretary of agriculture
(proposed) and all the directors or commissioners as members.
8.    These committees would monitor the progress of the extension program - overall
expenditure; progress of procurement of goods, equipment, and consultants; and construction -
and make decisions on overall policy.
9.    The first committee is already operating and normally meets every Monday. The second
committee is proposed and would meet to discuss the strategies for improvement and ways to
strengthen research-extension linkages, and the implementation of the extension program in the
districts.
10.   M&E would consolidate the monitoring reports from various districts and add the targets
(physical and financial) and also the other observations about the performance, program of
procurement of good equipment, construction, and consultancy. The report would be given to
the Senior Officers Committee which would discuss and suggest ways for improvement and
remedial action to avoid any shortfall in program implementation.
11.   These suggestions would be incorporated in the consolidated report, and this report along
with the necessary data, would be sent to all members of the Policy Committee. Any matter
requiring action by the Policy Committee would be highlighted in the report and included in the
agenda of the committee meeting.
12.   The results of a biannual survey at the end of each season and, later on, the findings of
the evaluation report at the end of two years would also be presented to the two committees for
information and action if necessary.
13.   M&E would also prepare brief quarterly, semi-annual, and annual progress reports for
IDA, based on the reports submitted to the Senior and Policy Committees. The would also assist
MAAIF management and IDA in the mid-term review of the project.



- 106 -                          Annex 8b
Page 1 of 5
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Key Indicators and Annual Targets
Project Objectives and Key Indicators of Their Achievement
1.    The project aims to improve in sixteen districts: (a) efficiency in the delivering of
extension services; (b) sk's of extension agents and farmers, and (c) adoption of improved
techniques by farmers.
2.    The following indicators would be used to assess the fulfillment of the project objectives.
(a)    Efciency in the Delivery of Extension Services
The Project would provide transport, equipment, rehabilitation of facilities, and
infrastructural operating costs. The extension workers at various levels would
be given a work plan. Key indicators for the availability of the facilities would
be the implementation time schedule. The improvement in efficiency of
extension delivery services would be judged by the implementation of the work
schedule by all extension workers at all levels, regularity of their visits to
assigned groups, number of persons attending the meetings, and the number and
quality of demonstrations of the improved techniques.
(b)    Skills of Extension Workers and Farmers
District farmers' institutes (DFIs) with assistance from with research staff are as
expected to implement a rigorous training schedule. The key indicator for the
improvement in skills of extension workers wou!d be the proper implementation
of the training schedule and the quality of the demonstrations of improved
techniques at DFIs and farmer-managed trials in the farmers' own fields.
(c)    Adoption of Impre-ed Techniques by the Farmers
The adoption rates for various messages delivered by the extension workers
would be the key indicators of the effectiveness of the extension services. In the
project's second and third years, the key indicator for effectiveness would be the
readoption rate of the message delivered and adopted in the previous season/year.
(d)   Improvement In the effrciency of management services in MAAIF
The key indicators would be the timeliness of the flow of funds to the operating
levels, procurement of goods and equipment, implementation of construction
activities, and implementation of management training programs supported by the
project.



- 107 -                          Annex 8b
Page 2 of S
(e)    At a later stage, as the data base improves, the increase in yields of crop,
livestock, and fisheries would become the key indicators for the success of
extension services in the project area.



- 108                        Annex 8b
Page 3 of 5
Key Indicators For Process and Impact Variables
A.    Key Indicators for Monitoring the Process Variables
Project Components              Variables to be Reported on Quarterly
l 1.    Strengthening the    a)    Number of (DFIs) rehabilitated
Extension Delivery    b)    Number of Offices rehabilitated
Services              c)    Number of transport facilities provided
d)    Number of Houses built or rehabilitated
e)    Visits by (FEWs) to the assigned groups
f)    Number of equipment provided
2.    Improvement in skills of a)    Number of person days of in service training of (FEWs) in
Extension Workers and        each district
Farmers               b)    Number of person days of farmers training
c)    Number of person days of trainings participated in by the
Subject Matter Specialists
d)    Number of person days spent on training by the research
staff
e)    New teaching material developed by the research staff in
research institutions for extension workers
3.    Demonstrations of      a)    Number of various demonstrations at DFIs
Improved Techniques    b)    Number of demonstrations on farmers' plots
c)    Inputs purchased for demonstrations
4.    Strengthening of       a)    Number of management training programs organized for
Management Systems           headquarters personnel
b)    Number of management training programs for district-level
personnel
c)    Number of functional management programs organized
d)    Installation of appropriate systems and procedures for
budgeting accounting and procurement
i) Budgeting according to priorities
ii) Streamlined arrangements for incurring e, enditures
iii) Efficient updating of accounts and feedback
iv) Procurement according to schedule
e)    Flow of local funds to HQ activities and district levels
f)    Flow of foreign funds
g)    M & E unit operations
5.    Studies                a)    Diagnostic studies for management training under PPF
b)    Efficiency of various extension methods
.__________ _  c)    Preparation of follow on Project



_ 109
Annex 8b
Page 4 of S
Key Indicators For Impact Variables
1.    Contact by FEWs         a.     Number of contact visits
b.    Attendance at the FEWs' visits to various
groups:
Males
Females
2.    Adoption Rates           a.     Adoption rates of various messages
Crops
Livestock
Fisheries
b.    Readoption rates in the second, third, and
fourth years
3.    Increases in Yields      a.    Increases in yields and production of
Crops
Livestock
Fisheries



- 110 -                        Annex 8b
Page 5 of 5
Annual Targets for Implementation and Impact
l  1993      1994      1995     1996
l__________________________________________________  (Cumulativ'l totals at end of period) I/
I. Implementation
A. Extension Delivery
(i) Rehabilitation of DFIs (%) completion           50%      100%
(ii) Field offices and Houses (%)  R                50%      100%
(iii) Headquarters Construction (%) "               40%      100%
(iv) Vehicles procured  (%)                         75%      100%
(v) Counties covered   (number)                      52        67       67        67
(vi) Farming far ilies contacted (000)              355       474       593      710
B. Training and Skills Improvement
(i) Rehabilitation of Bukalasa (%) Completion       50%      100%
(ii) Lecturers trained   (number)                    15        30
(iii) Person days of FEW training (annual) (000)      8        10        12       12
(iv) Person days spent on training by
research staff     (annual)                      36        50        70       100
C. Demonstrations
(i) Number of Demonstrations at DFIs (annual)        30        60       100       100
(ii) Number of Demonstrations in farmer fields      400       450       500      500
(annual)                                                       l
D. Management Systems
(i) Number of person days of training (annual)      220       195       170        .
(ii) Number of person days for district staff (annual)  186    37       180       30
II. Impact
(i)  Adopting Farm Families (000)                    143       214      296       392
(ii) No of Adopting Women and Young Farmers (000)     14        20       40        60
(iii) % of Re-adopting families                      60%       70%      80%       90%
(iv) % of Adopting families practicing agro           3%        8%      12%       15%
forestry
(v)  % of Families practicing agro-pastoral systems   5%       15%      20%       25%
(vi) % Families in diversification activities         5%       10%      15%       20%
(vii) Average percentage increase in yields
from base line levels
Crops                    %                      10%       20%      35%       50%
Livestock                %                     10%       15%      25%       35%
(viii) Number of fish ponds established              200      600       1200     2000
(ix) Minimum increase in family income                8.5       9.0      9.5       10.0
(current US$)
1/ Unless otherwise indicated



- 111.-                       Annex 8c
Page I of 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Introduction
1.    The Government of Uganda has identified a need in the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF) to have an internationally recruited management specialist to
assist MAAIF in strengthening the Monitoring and Evaluation System for the management of the
Agricultural Extension Project (AEP).
Objective
2.    The objective of the assignment would be to guide the overall process of establishing for
MAAIF a management information system and to monitor and evaluate the efficiency of extension
and the supporting management services.
3.    The monitoring and evaluation system should be designed to meet the management
information needs for decision-making at each level of project/program implementation.
Scope of Work
(a)    Assess the management information needs at the various levels (county, district,
and headquarters) of project/program implementation.
(b)    Review and standardize the procedures for monitoring information on process and
impact variables and build an appropriate data base at headquarters.
(c)    Review the questionnaires, data format, and sampling system for the biannual
survey on impact variables - particularly the adoption and readoption rates of
various messages communicated by the FEWs.
(d)    Make recommendations on improving the management information system to
disseminate management data in appropriate formats, frequency and content to
various decision-making levels.
(e)    Review the capabilities of M & E staff in collecting, processing, and reporting of
cata - and identify any additional training that may be required.



-112 -                         Annex 8c
Page 2 of 2
(f)    Standardize the flow of information from the procurement and finance divisions of
MAAIF - to meet the needs of MAAEF management and external donors.
Qualifications
A.  Education
Ph.d. degree in management, computer science/agricultural economics/sociology
B.   Experience
Should have demonstrated skills in designing M & E systems for agricultural projects and
a proven ability to conduct field surveys, data processing, and computer use.
Duty Station
Entebbe, Uganda
Reporting
4.    The M & E expert would report to the Director of Agriculture, MAAIF, and work in
close collaboration with the Head of the Planning Department. MAAIF would provide the work
space, secretarial assistance, telephone, vehicle, and office equipment for use.
Duration of Assignment
5.    The duration of the assignment would be four months spread over three years - two
months in the first year, and one month each in the following two years.



- 113 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 6
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Annual Work Program, Project Supervision, and Implementation
Annual Work Program and Budget
The Annual Work Program and Budget would be submitted for IDA approval by November 1 of the
preceding year and would include:
(a)    A District action plan (DAP) for each district, which would provide details on the extension
program, budget, staffing arrangements, field trials, and programs for women. The DAP
would be based on an initial diagnostic survey of farmer problems and the special needs of
women and would be updated annually. It would include details on district staffing, training,
and coordination arrangements for implementing the extension program. Working arrange-
ments with the District Development Committee and other district organizations would be
clearly defined. In new districts, approval of the DAP would be contingeni on appointment
of the district extension coordinator and county extension coordinators. These extension
coordinators would be selected from among the representative disciplines at the district and
country levels. The appointments would be promotional appointments and the criteria and
process would be transparent at all levels. to establish the criteria for selection and the steps
to be followed - and ensure that the process is transparent - assistance would be obtained
from MTAC under the Management Development Program.
(b)    Details on the training program for the year. For local training, specific details would be
provided on the type of training, location, date, number of persons to b- trained, and trainers
identified by name, discipline, and institution. For external training and study tours, the
annual program would identify the trainees, area of study, period, and place of training, as
well as estimated cost.
(c)    Details on Research/Extension linkage arrangements. The SMS workshops would be covered
under the training program. Details would be provided on planned joint field visits and joint
adaptive research trails at DFIs and in farmers fields. The cost of the Research/Extension
linkage program would be defined in detail including the costs of the researchers'
participation which would be financed under the extension budget.
(d)    Details on the Management Training Program and activities planned for the year including
implementation of the MIS and arrangements for improving procurement and financial
procedures.
(e)    Details on consultancy studies to be carried out during the year and target dates for approval
of the terms of reference short list, appointments, and execution of study.



- 114_                         Annex 9
Page 2 of 6
(f)    Details on expenditures by quarters, sources of funding (government or IDA), and required
flow of funds from Government - with target dates for release.
Supervision
1.    The schedule of supervision missions, given in the table below, does not include supervision time
spent on the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc. (estimated for this project
to require four staff-weeks per year during the first three project years and three staff-weeks per year
thereafter).
2.    Borrower Contribution to Supervision
(a)    MAAIF would submit to IDA brief quarterly project implementation progress reports
no later than January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30 each year.
(b)    The Director of Agriculture would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for
Bank supervision missions and for providing information required by missions. Bank
missions would be accompanied by responsible officers of MAAIF.
(c)    Briefing meetings of missions would be normally chaired by the Director of
Agriculture, who would also arrange for appropriate wrap-up meetings which would
normally be chaired by the permanent secretary, MAAIF. For coordination purposes
a second wrap-up meeting would also be held, when necessary, with the Agricultural
Policy Committee.



- 115 -                         Annex 9
Page 3 of 6
Table 1. SCHEDULE OF IDA SUPERVISION MISSIONS
Approximate                                      Expected Skill               Staff Input
Date          Activity                            Requirements                (staff-weeks)
9/92          Review progress of pilot            Extension Specialist        3
extension activities
Review progress under PPF, of
recruitment of Extension,
Accounting and Procurement staff
Ii/92         Project launching                  Task Manager                 7
Review progress on procurement of   Proc. Specialist
vehicles, equipment & civil works    Extension Specialist
Review of first annual program &   Financial Analyst
budget, staff training and
research/extension linkages & inter-
departmental cooperation
2/93          Supervision mission                Task Manager                 4
Extension Specialist
6/93          Supervision mission                 Extension Specialist        4
Procurement Specialist
10/93         Supervision mission                Task Manager                 6
Extension Specialist
Financial Analyst
4/94          Supervision mission                Task Manager                 3
10/94         Supervision mission                Extension Specialist         3
03/31/95      Mid-term project review            Task Manager                  12
Extension Specia!ist
Training & Communications
Specialist
Management Specialist
5/95          Supervision mission                 Extension Specialist        2
10/95         Supervision mission                Task Manager                 4
Extension Specialist
4/96          Supervision mission                 Extension Specialist        3
10/96         Supervision mission                Extension Specialist         2
5-6/97        Project completion mission          Agr. Economist               16
Extension Specialist
Agr. Education Specialist
Financial Analyst



_ 116 _
Annex 9
Page 4 of 6
_N                              ..
-,    -!   -                   'u.
:   t   m.
C__-)
n~~                                      U..:t. **  
aI       - _U* *.
*                                      >>--.
.E  _g t _.                 *ttEu.
v U                                
g _   .                                         S~~~~U
4_. )
Ni                                     U...* "   " *" 
o_ _U.*        
LuilllB0 ljt Ml1



Project Implementation Schedule Key Activities 2/   Chart 2
ProjectYear             PPF               1                    2                    3                     4 Y
Calendar Year            1992            1993                 1994                  1995                 1996                  1997
IBRD Fiwal Year
FY 93    FY 93      FY 94     FY 94      FY 95     FY 95      FY 95     FY 96       FY 97      FY 97      FY 98
Quaster                         I    2    3    4    1   2    3    4    1    2    3    4   1         2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1   2
D. TRAING & SKILLS
- Conduct Induction Training  *                      *
for SMSs
- Prpare Annual Training                                                         
Progra
- Select Trainees                    *                    *                    *
- Subnut Trg. Poposals to IDA        *                    *                    *                   U
- Iniplment TrainingPogrm P*****g**                                          * * ***   *  * 
- Training of Extemion Field Staff*  *** * *                         ** * * * * ** *                                     
- SMS Workshops               R  *E**                     E*       E**            U**                * *   *   *
- Review Bukasa Pram          *                     *                    *                       
- Plan Dcnonations           *     *                     *                    *                    *
E. MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
- Recuit nterntional TA
- Diagnostic survey           U
- Finalize Mng. Dev. Plan
-Iniplemnt Trg. Progam and                U                                                                             
Feedback
- Recruit M&E Consultant
- Set- up M&E System                      **    * 
- Conduct Impact Surveys             *
- MIS Repn                                                     *    * 1                             *    *    *     |     *    *     " 
l                                                                                                                     ;3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>
2  Cn
21      Civil Works and Procurement Schedules are in Annex 7a.



Project hIplenaentation Schedule Key Activities 3/      Chart  3
Project Year              PPF                 1                     2                      3                      4                       5
Calendar Year              192   j993                              1994                   1995                    1996                    1997
IBRD Fiscal Year
FY93      FY 93       FY 94      FY 94      FY 95      FY 95       FY 96      FY 96        FY 97       FY 97       FY 98
Quarter                       1      2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4           1    2    3       4     1    2    3       4     1    2
F. STUDIES
- Rationalization of Tr.                                 U
- Alternative Tech.                                                       *
- Follow on Project                                                                                                E U
G. REVIEWS, REPORTING AND
- sbmittorDAt Anual                     *  |                   *                      *
- Quaterly Progress Repots       *        EE | *    *    **
- Submit Annual Audited                                                                                     U *
- Prepare Report for Mid-term 
- Submit Mid-term Report to Bank                                                     *
- Conduct Mid-tern Review                                                                 U
o x0
co
3/      Civil Works and Procurement Schedules are in Annex 7a.



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSIN PROJBCr
nremeal GDP. Po  Pamily  _me and Rd--I Rate of Retur
Pauticulars                                        1993              199               1995             1996
Coumy Poie: (S:urc  Agrcultul Secto, r Mcnuuudum - Table 51)
Ag6euhut GDP (excl. P-ray &   Plia   (USb Mi)a):
For the Cyatiy (Bao  Year 1991)
- Monstary Ecoomy                                442469
- Non-Monetary Economy                           554758
Total                                            99
Poject Ana Prfie:
Project Ae (16 Did.) est dare of Couy Agricultal GDP @60%
Project Ae Agficultul GDP (USh M 01991 pVle)                       598336           598336            598336           59S336
Project Area Agricultr GDP (US$ M  01991 prle 1/)                     79                798              798              79S
Projet Area Agricultural Exensi  Coverge Rate                         ?K                40%              50%               60%
Extetaion Covered Project Ara Agriculal ODP                           B9                319              399              479
ProjectAre  xtdenaon Adoption Rate                                    44%               45%              50%               55%
Extnson Adopted Project Area Agficultw... LfOr                         96               144             19                263
Projeet aeamnremeat Pfoducton Rate                                    1.2%             1.2%              1.2%             1.2%
PrAo   Area ue nta Agrclua CDP                                      1.149             1.723            2.393             3.159
PrMct Am Fami Pf anod Requid hncnaal lnc:me:
Nvmber of Far FPamilies in te Project Am                          1186000           liIISOM          1186000           1186000
ExtedsonCoverage Rate                                                 30%               40%              50%               60%
Adpotin Rate                                                          40%               45%              50%               55%
Number of Adopting Pam Families                                    142320            213480           296500            391380
AdoptingFmPamiliesasa%ofTotalinProjectates                            12%              1I%               25%               33%
Rcquitd    ec l uhne per Pam PFam    (US)                           S.072             8.072            8.072             $.072
eami Rat of Retmu  () Year):                       1992              1993              1994             1995              1996             1997              1998             1999           20 to
Inc    il Inflow (USSMiniou)                     0.000             1.149             1.723            2.393             3.159            3.159             3.159            3.159             3.159
Incremental Otflow incl. Phy. Cont. (US$ M) 2/    -0.350           -4.053            -6.318           -3.351            -2.572           -1.252            -1.252           -1.252            -1.252
Leaa: Taxes 31                                     0.000            0.021             0.169            0.017             0.014            0.000             0.000            0.000             0.090
Net Outflow                                       -0.350           -4.032            -6.149           -3.334            -2.558           -1.252            -1.252           -1.252            -1.252
Net Jnflow/-4)Alow                                -0.350           -2.813            -4.426           -0.940             0.601            1.907             1.907             1.907            1.907
Ilteia Rate of Retun                                 15%
11 At verage exchane rate for the period of USb 750/USS
2V Rcrrent Cowl maiutained at 75 % of 1996 kvel in the podt-implementation period. No new investments arc included.
3/ No tax revenue included after 1996.
0



- 120 -
Annex 11
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
A. Project Identirlcation and Preparation Documents
1.    Agricultural Extension Planning Report of Working Group 9B, Agricultural Policy
Committee, Government of Uganda, December 1990
2.    Pilot Agricultural Extension Project Preparation Report, Government of Uganda, April
1992
3.    Institutional Development Proposal for the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and
Fisheries, submitted by the International Development Management Center (IDMC) of
the University of Maryland, November 1991
4.    Institutional Development Component - MAAIF consultant report (Dan Gustafson,
IDMC), February 1992
B. Implementation Documents and Working Papers
1.    Management Systems: Consultant Report (U.K. Srivastava) June 1992
2.    Basic Guidelines on Financial and Accounting Systems: Consultant Report (V.
Jayaraman) June 1992
3.    PPF Expenditures
4.    Detailed Cost Tables and Supporting Documents



UwA                                                     Chart 1
AGPICJLTWAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Organizationat Chart of the Unified Extension Service
ADMINISTRATIVE
UNITS
|DRCTOR OF AGIWLUE
DEPARTMENT OF                          DEPARTMENT OF                                  DEPARTMENT OF                    DEPARTMENT OF
EXTENSION                           |TRAINING AND                                  DEVELOPMENT                       AGRIC. PLANNING
.                   |~~~~~INFORMATION
NATIONAL
l    ,                                              MONITORING ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AND
l   ,   l                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EYALUATION UNIT
D        ASSISTANT                     AGRIC.  FISR             STP                      A FR
COMMISSIONER                    COLLEGESAINFORM. &                  F M G             E
OF EXTENSION                                  COMMUNI-       ISIUE
(ACE) 1/                                  CATION
CENTER
DISTRICT  EXTE    XESION  COORDINAT OR
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIL
DISTRICT AGRIC U DISTRICT OET.         DISTRICT FISHERIES         S     CT    RIMCIPAL DFI &                             i         & E)T           DISTRICT
OFFICER (SMS)         OFFICER (SMS)         OF FICER (SMS)          HE    |         SMS (TRAINING)l 
I ASS. SM  I IFARM MANAGE- I |EDIA    I
| TRAINNG  | | MEiNT        RESURC
|CWtNTY EXTENSION  COORDINATOR|
|CWtNTRY AGRICULTURAL IICOUNTY ANIMAL          |OIUNTY FISHERIES I ItCWNTYN                                            INVESTIGATO               COtUNTY
|  OFFICER     | | HUSBANDRY OFFICER]         OFFICER         ECONOMICS OFFICER                                    (M & E)
FIELD EXTENSION      FEW     FEW     FEW      FEW    FFE       FEW A    EW    FEW                                                              SUB-COUNTY/
WORKER (FEW)            I                                                                                                                     PARISH
|FARMER GROUPS 1-12 |                                                                                                                          GROWPS
1/  One ACE for each of the six agro-ecological regions.
SMS - Subject Matter Specialist
HE - Home Economics
DFI - District Farm Institute



_               1~~~~~ 3f                                    31                      3?
UGANDA                                              SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
PROJECT
PROJECT DISTRICTS                Koboko    -
DISTRCTS COVERED
UNDER THE PROJECT                / ,     /                           \       W
DITRICT FARM INSTiThIESi                                            6 RI  RkdOr
PRLBZ BITUMEN ROADXi)x)S GL
PRMR GPRAVEL ROADS                                                                                         m <
-I--I--l-I-  RAILROADS                                              UR
3        DISTRICT CAPITALS                 Ai AC
NATIONAL CAPITAL M.ND|S
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAR_ES
. y ,/ < , tX_ ~~~~~~~~~Kyogoo\\ - <U1r
StgHO*                                                                I  UKNS\A/ 
4 C o  t MUBENDE                                                            T  h. w_i
E~~~~~~~~~KARL                                                                                                     -d 
m~~~~~~~~
n   *Ss50 \tx  J                       ukolo  UA   ~~~~~~~~~0 25  so  75  100 EIGIEIE      8URUNDI                            W
ZA IRE                                            ro                           V TA7AkIIA                       I



