Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2424 UG
Development Credit Agreement
                 (Agricultural Extension Project)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated March 26, 1993
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2424 UG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 26, 1993, between THE REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
Page  2
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "MAAIF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture,
Animal Industry and Fisheries;
      (b)   "DAP" means a District Action Plan referred to in
paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (c)   "DFI" means District Farm Institutes;
      (d)   "FEW" means Field Extension Worker;
      (e)   "M&E" means Monitoring and Evaluation;
      (f)   "MIS" means Management Information System;
      (g)   "NARO" means the Borrower's National Agricultural
Research Organization;
      (h)   "MTAC" means the Borrower's Management Training and
Advisory Center;
      (i)   "SMS" means Subject Matter Specialist;
      (j)   "T&V" means the Training and Visit system of management
of extension;
      (k)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
      (l)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to the letter from the Association dated June 23, 1992, and
confirmed by the Borrower on July 24, 1992; and
      (m)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eleven million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 11,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
Page  3
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing March 1, 2003, and ending September 1, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on September 1,
2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Page  4
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                           ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MAAIF, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate agricultural extension, financial and administrative
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) establish and maintain,
until completion of the Project, a separate Project Account with a
commercial bank, into which it shall deposit its contributions to
the Project, in accordance with established budgetary procedures
acceptable to the Association; and (b) at the beginning of each
quarter deposit into said Project Account a sufficient amount to
cover its contribution during such quarter.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than nine
                   months after the end of fiscal year 1993 and six
                   months after the end of fiscal year 1994 and
                   thereafter a certified copy of the report of
                   such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                   in such detail as the Association shall have
                   reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
Page  5
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower shall have appointed the Extension Adviser,
the Procurement Specialist and the Financial Officer referred to in
paragraphs B.5, A.3 and A.4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
respectively;
      (b)   the Borrower shall have opened the Project Account
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
      (c)   the Borrower shall have furnished the annual work
program and budget, referred to in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, for the first year of Project Implementation.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance and Economic
              Planning
            P.O. Box 8147
Page  6
            Kampala, Uganda
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINSEC                    61170
                   Kampala
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                         By /s/ Stephen K. Katenta-Apuli
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works              1,650,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                60% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)   Vehicles and             1,290,000        100% of foreign
      equipment                                 expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)   Consultants'             1,040,000        100% of foreign
      services                                  expenditures and
                                                95% of local
Page  7
                                                expenditures
(4)   Training                 1,720,000        100%
(5)   Demonstration and          440,000        100% of foreign
      field trials                              expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures until
                                                December 31,
                                                1994 and 65% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                thereafter
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6)   Incremental
      recurrent costs
      (a)  Field               3,160,000        100% of foreign
           operations                           expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures up to
                                                December 31, 1994
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                thereafter
      (b)  Non-field             250,000        100% of foreign
           operations                           expenditures and
                                                65% of local
                                                expenditures
(7)   Refunding of               350,000        Amounts due pur-
      Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
      tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(8)   Unallocated              1,100,000
                               _________
           TOTAL              11,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental recurrent costs" means the
incremental recurrent costs arising under the Project on account of
the following: (i) in the case of "field operations", performance,
field and travel allowances, vehicle operating costs, supplies, and
maintenance of equipment and buildings; and (ii) in the case of
"non-field operations", headquarters vehicle operating costs,
supplies and maintenance of equipment and buildings.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) in respect
of payments for expenditures under Category (1) of the table in
paragraph 1 above, unless the Borrower has recruited a consultant
having qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable
to the Association, to complete necessary designs and drawings, and
Page  8
thereafter supervise civil works under the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The broad objectives of the Project are to address the urgent
needs for disease control and yield improvements and to build
capacity to deliver and support effective extension services, in
particular the Project shall assist the Borrower in improving (i)
efficiency in the delivery of extension services in sixteen
districts; (ii) training capacity and skills of extension agents and
farmers; (iii) adoption of improved techniques by farmers; and (iv)
efficiency in management services in MAAIF, in order to support the
delivery of extension and ensure its sustainability.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Strengthening of the Delivery of Extension Services
1.    Strengthening the capacity of MAAIF to deliver efficient and
relevant extension services at farm level and development of
appropriate management systems for the services.
2.    Acquisition of vehicles, including bicycles, motor cycles and
four wheel drive vehicles, and equipment for extension activities in
the 16 districts.
3.    Construction of a limited number of staff quarters for field
staff mainly in remote areas.
Part B:     Improvement in Training Capacity and Skills
1.    Acquisition of equipment, supplies, facilities and transport
for regular in-service training of extension staff and periodic
farmer training at the District Farm Institutes, with the
involvement of research staff.
2.    Rehabilitation, curriculum development and upgrading of staff
capabilities at Bukalasa Agricultural College.
3.    Demonstration of improved techniques through demonstration
plots at the DFIs and farmer managed trials in their own fields.
Part C:    Strengthening of Management System
1.    Training in management and team building for MAAIF staff at
headquarters and in the sixteen districts.
2.    Improvement in financial management, procurement and budgetary
procedures.
3.    Strengthening of monitoring and evaluation of extension
activities.
4.    Construction of new, and rehabilitation of existing offices.
Part D:     Studies
1.    Carrying out a study to rationalize the training institutes
and colleges of MAAIF, including curriculum development.
2.    Carrying out a study on the efficiency and impact of alternate
technology transfer mechanisms.
3.    Design of a follow-on Project.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
Page  9
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
3.    Goods to be procured through international competitive bidding
shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third
party.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Uganda may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for civil works and goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $350,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
Page  10
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
A.    Project Coordination
1.    The Permanent Secretary of MAAIF, assisted by the Directors of
Agriculture and Animal Resources, shall be responsible for
coordination and overall management of the Project. The Director of
Agriculture shall be responsible for the supervision of the
Extension Program, to be implemented by the Heads of the Departments
of Extension, and Training and Information.
2.    The Borrower shall by November 1 in each year furnish to the
Association annual work programs and budgets, satisfactory to the
Association, based on the cropping year. Such work programs shall
include, inter alia, (a) the DAP for each district, (b) details on
the training program for that year, including the names and
qualifications of the proposed trainees, and details of the proposed
training courses and course locations, and an evaluation of the
previous year's training program, (c) details on the Research/
Extension linkage arrangements, (d) details on the Management
Training Program, (e) details of the studies to be carried out
during the year, and (f) details on projected expenditures by
quarters, sources for funding and required flow of funds from the
Borrower, with target dates for release.
3.    MAAIF shall by March 31, 1993, create a Procurement Committee
with representatives from the Central Tender Board, and Ministries
of Finance and Economic Planning, and Justice and make appropriate
arrangements for necessary clearances and approvals. MAAIF shall
appoint and maintain during Project Implementation, a Procurement
Specialist, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association.
4.    The Borrower shall appoint and maintain during Project
Implementation, a Financial Officer, with qualifications, experience
and terms of reference, satisfactory to the Association, to assist
in the financial management of the Project and to strengthen
financial capacity in MAAIF.
B.   Extension Organization and Management
Page  11
1.    The Borrower shall follow the T&V System of management of
extension with respect to the organization of the extension service
and the regularity of training, supervision and farmer visits. The
FEW shall be the first point of contact with farmers and shall
operate through contact groups of farmers.
2.    MAAIF shall appoint County Extension Coordinators and District
Extension Coordinators in accordance with predetermined criteria
satisfactory to the Association.
3.    The Department of Extension shall prepare for each new
district, a district action plan, based on brief diagnostic surveys
of farmer problems, including the special needs of women and youth,
and details on staffing, training and coordination arrangements.
4.    No DAP shall be approved in any district, unless the District
Extension Coordinator and County Extension Coordinators have been
appointed.
5.    The Borrower shall appoint an Extension Adviser, with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference, satisfactory to
the Association, to assist in the design and implementation of the
extension program.
C.    Research/Extension Linkages
1.    The Borrower shall hold pre-seasonal workshops of SMSs at
designated research centers and DFIs.
2.    The Borrower shall make MAAIF's Directors of Agriculture and
Animal Resources members of the Board of NARO, once NARO's Board is
constituted.
3.    The Borrower shall by March 31, 1993, establish a Research
Extension Linkage Committee, whose membership shall include the
Directors of Agriculture and Animal Resources and relevant
Department Heads in MAAIF, Heads of the NARO research centers, and
Deans of the Faculties of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine at
Makerere University.
D.   Monitoring and Evaluation
      The M&E Unit shall be located within the Planning Department
of MAAIF. The M&E Unit shall be headed by a senior officer, assisted
by a deputy and two support staff. The M&E Unit shall, inter alia,
be responsible for current operational information on the extension
program, as well as the evaluation of the impact of the program. In
addition the M&E Unit shall conduct an Impact and Evaluation Survey
at the end of each season.
E.    Training and Management
1.    The Principals of each of the DFIs shall report to the
Extension Coordinator and shall: (a) arrange for monthly/
fortnightly training of the field extension staff; (b) organize
periodic training programs for farmers, extension staff and staff of
other departments as per agreed work program; and (c) provide the
needed facilities for the implementation of the adaptive trial
program.
2.    MAAIF shall, by March 31, 1993, (a) enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding, acceptable to the Association, with Makerere
University on the scope and implementation of the curriculum
development program for Bukalasa Agricultural College; and (b)
determine the modalities for the admission of private students to
Bukalasa Agricultural College and other agricultural colleges, and
communicate details thereof to the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall carry out the Management Development
Program with assistance from MTAC. MAAIF shall, by March 31, 1993,
enter into a Memorandum of Understanding, acceptable to the
Association with MTAC for the implementation of the Program.
Page  12
F.    MIS
      The Borrower shall establish an appropriate MIS at
headquarters. In addition the Borrower shall, by March 31, 1993,
establish a monitoring system at headquarters to track elapsed time
and bottlenecks in financial, budgetary and procurement procedures.
G.    Mid-Term Review
1.    The Borrower and the Association shall carry out a mid-term
review of the Project by March 31, 1995. In order to facilitate this
review the M&E Unit shall by December 31, 1994, prepare a mid-term
report on the Project. The review shall, inter alia, evaluate: (a)
the effectiveness of the unified extension system; (b) depth and
coverage of the extension service; (c) its impact on agricultural
production and target beneficiaries; (d) progress towards increased
beneficiary participation in delivery and funding of extension; (e)
effectiveness of the research/extension linkages; (f) the effec-
tiveness of the adaptive on-farm research trials; (g) the relative
merits of the alternative extension delivery mechanisms; (h)
regularity and effectiveness of frontline staff training and SMS
workshops; (i) the experience of contacting farmers as groups; and
(j) need, if any, for organizational changes to adjust to the
decentralized management of public services. The key indicators in
assessing the impact of the Project for purposes of the mid-term
review would be as set out in the Annex to this Schedule. In
addition, the mid-term review, shall critically examine: (A) the
adequacy of Borrower support in terms of counterpart funding,
particularly incremental recurrent costs; and (B) the potential and
capacity to implement a full-scale national extension project.
2.    Following the mid-term review, the Borrower undertakes to act
promptly and diligently in order to take any corrective action
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the imple-
mentation of the Project, or to implement such other measures as may
have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association in
furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
H.    Actions for Women and Young Farmers
      The Borrower shall undertake the following initiatives:
      (a)   diagnostic surveys in each district which would include
questions on the roles, decision making patterns and technological
gaps pertaining to rural women and young farmers;
      (b)   formation of special women and youth target groups;
      (c)   increase the number of female extension workers;
      (d)   improve the contact and communication between extension
agents and female farmers and young farmers;
      (e)   improve the appropriateness of the messages and
technology for women and young farmers; and
      (f)   organize special training programs for rural women and
youth.
I.    Annual Targets
      The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with
the targets set out in the Annex to this Schedule.
                             ANNEX
                    Annual Targets for Implementation and Impact
                                        1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
                                  (Cumulative totals at end of period)
Page  13
I. Implementation
   A.    Extension Delivery
         (i)   Rehabilitation            50%  100%
               of DFIs (%) com-
               pletion
        (ii)   Field offices and         50%  100%
               Houses
       (iii)   Headquarters Con-         40%  100%
               struction
        (iv)   Vehicles procured         75%  100%
         (v)   Counties covered          52    67    67    67    67
               (number)
        (vi)   Farming families         355   474   593   710   710
               contacted (000)
B. Training and Skills Improvement
         (i)   Rehabilitation of         50%  100%
               Bukalasa (%)
        (ii)   Lecturers trained          15   30
               (number)
       (iii)   Person days of FEW          8   10    12    12
               training (annual)
               (000)
                                   1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
                                  (Cumulative totals at end of period)
        (iv)   Person days spent         36    50    70   100
               on training by
               research staff
               (annual)
C. Demonstrations
         (i)   Number of Demon-          30    60   100   100
               strations at DFIs
               (annual)
        (ii)   Number of Demon-         400   450   500   500
               strations in farmer
               fields (annual)
D. Management Systems
         (i)   Number of person         220   195   170   --
               days training
               (annual)
        (ii)   Number of person         186    37   180    30
               days for district
               (annual)
II.      Impact
         (i)   Adopting farm            143   214   296   392   392
               families (000)
        (ii)   Number of Adopting        14    20    40    60    60
               Women and Young
               Farmers (000)
Page  14
       (iii)   % of re-adopting          60%  70%    80%   90%   90%
               families
        (iv)   % of adopting              3%   8%    12%   15%   15%
               families practicing
               agroforestry
                                        1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
                                  (Cumulative totals at end of period)
         (v)   % of families              5%   15%   20%   25%   25%
               agro-pastoral
               systems
        (vi)   % of families in           5%   10%   15%   20%   20%
               diversification
               activities
       (vii)   Average percentage
               increase in yields
               from basic line
               levels:
               Crops %                   10%   20%  35%    50%   50%
               Livestock %               10%   15%   25%   35%   35%
      (viii)   Number of fish ponds     200   600   1200  2000
               established
        (ix)   Minimum increase         8.5   9.0   9.5   10.0  10.0
               in family income
               (current US$)
                             SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  15
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
Page  16
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
