 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14646

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 05/28/2015

               Country: Guinea
             Project ID: P091297                                                  Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: Urban Iii - Phase Ii         Project Costs (US$M):                    15.0                16.36

  L/C Number:              CH330                      Loan/Credit (US$M):                     15.0                15.99
      Sector Board:        Urban Development          Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                  08/14/2007
                                                              Closing Date:             12/31/2011           06/30/2013
          Sector(s):       Sub-national government administration (33%); Sanitation (22%); Solid waste management
                           (21%); Roads and highways (20%); Central government administration (4%)
          Theme(s):        Municipal governance and institution building (25% - P); Municipal finance (25% - P); Other
                           urban development (24% - P); Pollution management and environmental health (13% - S);
                           Decentralization (13% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Robert Mark Lacey          Christopher David      Christopher David          IEGPS1
                           Nelson                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The project is the second Phase of a two-Phase Program supported by two Adjustable Program Grants (APGs).
According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 6), the Program objective is to “(a) improve the living
conditions of Conakry’s urban population through the provision of basic services, and (b) create an enabling
environment for sustained programming, financing and management of priority investments and services in major
urban centers.”

According to the Financing Agreement (page 5), the project’s development objective is “to improve the provision of
infrastructure and services in Conakry and selected secondary cities and the financial and organizational
management of Municipalities in support of the Recipient’s decentralization process.”

The PAD (page 8) describes the project development objectives as “(a) to improve the provision of infrastructure and
services in Conakry and secondary cities; and (b) to improve the financial and organizational management of
municipalities in support of the decentralization process.”

A level 2 restructuring took place effective December 29, 2011. Although the development objectives remained
unchanged, the outcome targets were significantly changed. Along with all Bank activities in Guinea, the project had
been suspended following the coup d’état of December, 2008. It was reactivated in February, 2011. The major change
at the December 2011 restructuring was the dropping of planned activities related to the solid waste component.
These activities were intended to build upon a successful system for solid waste collection and disposal, based on
contracts with small and medium enterprises, that had been established as a result of earlier Bank interventions in the
sector. This system virtually collapsed during the suspension period, due to changes in political leadership and the
wish of the new Governor of Conakry to control the system’s operation. The project’s results framework was
substantially revised. The two original outcome targets -- (i) percentage of the population of
Conakry with access to solid waste services; and (ii) increase in municipal own revenues for Conakry -- were dropped.
They were replaced by four new indicators: (iii) number of direct project beneficiaries; (iv) number of people in urban
areas provided with access to all-season roads within a 500 meter range; (v) number of local governments having
established effective management to operate commercial infrastructure; and (vi) number of local governments
generating budget reports on time. In addition, seven intermediate targets were dropped, and 15 new ones
introduced.

This Review carries out a split evaluation of the project prior to and following the restructuring. At the time of the
restructuring, US$5.91 million (43.8%) of the final disbursed amount of the IDA Grant (US$13.5 million) had been
disbursed. This percentage will be used for weighting purposes to calculate the overall outcome.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?


 c. Components:
  There were four components:
(1): Municipal Contract for the City of Conakry (Estimated cost at appraisal: US$ 6.5 million; Restructuring US$6.8
million; Actual: US$ 6.0 million). Comprised: Improved access to urban infrastructure and services to residents in the
City of Conakry and its municipalities (Kaloum, Matoto, Ratoma, Dixinn, and Matam) through Public Investment
Programs (PIPs) and Municipal Adjustment Programs (MAPs). Subcomponents: support for the solid waste
management system of Conakry; secondary roads improvement; and prioritization of investments identified in urban
investment plans.
At the December 2011 restructuring, the investments related to solid waste management were dropped. Retained
investments were: (i) neighborhood upgrading, but reduced extent of road rehabilitation under the project from 16 km
to 7.6 km, and (ii) administrative, socio-public, commercial, and environmental facilities.
(2) Municipal Contracts for Secondary Cities (Estimated at Appraisal: US$ 4.5 million; Restructuring: US$4.5 million;
Actual US$ 4.1 million). Comprised: Improved mobilization of local revenues; and improved administrative and
technical capacity of municipal staff.
At the December 2011 Restructuring, the number and scope of secondary cities’ Municipal Contracts were scaled
down: 20 of the originally planned 40 sub-projects were retained, with each city benefiting from at least one
sub-project investment, and the Municipal Adjustment Programs were refocused on activities that could be be
completed before project closure.
(3) Institutional Strengthening (Estimated at Appraisal: US$ 2.8 million; Restructuring: US$2.6 million; Actual US$ 2.7
million). Comprised: project management support, dissemination and communication activities, audits, and safeguard
implementation support. It also supported city level institutional strengthening, (e.g. street addressing, improvement of
local resources through technical support and expansion of fiscal registers and tax base, dissemination of budgetary
and accounting manuals for municipalities, support the computerization of municipal financial statements, and
updating the financial ratio guidebook for tax base identification and tax collection).
At the December 2011 restructuring, the following activities were dropped: (i) street addressing in all communes of
Conakry except three; (ii) improvement of fiscal registers in all communes of Conakry except three; (iii) defining roles
and monitoring of tax collections; (iv) urban planning and management; and (v) a proposed study on
intergovernmental transfers and shared taxes. The restructured component focused on critical activities with a
potential impact on municipal budget management and with a likelihood of completion before project closure: training
of municipal staff; provision of information technology (IT); support to National Directorate of Decentralization; and
updating the Financial Ratio Guidebook.
(4) Emergency Urban Labor -Intensive Public Works Program (Estimate at Restructuring: US$ 2.5million; Actual US$
2.5 million). This program was added in 2008 after a US$2.5 million Grant was obtained from the Global Food Crisis
Response Program. It was treated as Additional Financing and formally integrated into the project at the time of the
December 2011 Restructuring. It comprised road maintenance, drainage clearing, and urban works programs to
provide employment and income to households in the poorest areas of Conakry.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Project Cost. Total actual project cost, according to Annex 1 of the ICR, was US$16.36 million (including a front-end
fee of US$0.96 million, compared to an appraisal estimate of US$15 million and an estimate at Restructuring of
US$17.5 million, the latter including the Additional Financing for the Labor Intensive Public Works Program. The three
original components, which were substantially revised at the Restructuring, cost US$1.2 million (8.6%) less than the
appraisal estimate.
Financing. Of the original IDA Grant of US$15 million, US$13.5 million was disbursed. The Additional Financing Grant
from the Global Food Crisis Response Program was almost fully disbursed (US$2.49 million out of US$2.5 million).
There were no other sources of external financing.
Recipient Contribution . At appraisal, the Government of Guinea, the Governorate of Conakry and its five
municipalities, and the ten secondary cities involved were expected to contribute US$1 million. Their actual
contributions totaled US$2.6 million. The ICR does not explain this significant difference.
Dates. Together with the rest of the Bank program in Guinea, the project was suspended following the coup d’état of
December 23, 2008. At the time of suspension, just over 20% of the IDA Grant had been disbursed. The Bank
reengaged in January 2011, following the election of a democratic Government the previous month. The project was
reactivated in February, 2011. At the December 2011 restructuring, the closing date was extended by 18 months from
December 31, 2011, to June 30, 2013, due to the need to redefine project scope and indicators after the period of
suspension, and to take account of a new Government policy for solid waste management.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial.
The project’s objectives remain relevant to the World Bank Group’s strategy in Guinea as set out in the Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the Fiscal Years (FY) 2014-2017. The CPS (page 7) emphasizes that the incidence of
urban poverty doubled between 1995 and 2012, while the poverty rate in Conakry tripled over the same period. The
urban poor are highly vulnerable to fluctuations in the price of food, and suffer from severe limitations in the availability
of basic services, notably drinking water. Augmenting the flow of resources to local governments, together with
appropriate capacity building at all levels of government, is “critical to improving urban infrastructure and basic service
delivery” (CPS, page 11). Supporting labor-intensive public works programs in urban areas is one of the ways in which
the World Bank Group’s “twin goals of reducing extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity will be pursued
through existing and new investment and technical assistance instruments” (CPS, page 20).

The project's objectives also reflected the priorities of the World Bank Group’s Country Assistance Strategy for the FY
2003-2006 period and the Interim Strategy Note for FY2011-2012. The re-activation of the project in 2011 confirmed
the relevance of the project in the post-crisis environment.

The project’s objectives are not, however, directly to be found among the priorities of the Government of Guinea as
stated in its Third National Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP III) of May, 2013. There “the vision is to use
Guinea’s large mining rents to alleviate poverty and develop a competitive, employment-generating private sector….. A
massive public investment program that prioritizes energy, transport and agriculture is envisaged to increase
productive private employment and reduce spatial inequalities, while programs for education and health are targeted
to benefit the poor” (CPS, page 3).

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
The results framework at appraisal convincingly linked inputs, outputs and intermediate and final outcome. The causal
chain between funding, outputs and outcomes is clear, albeit challenging due to the breadth of the covered
institutional development subjects. Considerable care went into the design of the Municipal Contracts (MCs). They
were agreed following a participatory process involving close consultation with mayors, members of city councils,
private operators, stakeholder groups, and neighborhood leaders. While consultations were proceeding, municipal
audits were to be carried out by local consultants under the supervision of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
Baseline information was gathered on existing assets, and service and poverty levels, on which Priority Investment
Programs (PIPs) were based. Financial and organizational audits assessed the financial situation, management
structure and capacity of the municipalities, which formed the basis for the Municipal Adjustment Programs (MAPs).
Design put a strong emphasis on attempting to ensure there were sufficient resources to meet commitments arising
out of the project, such as asset maintenance and a 10% counterpart funding of the PIPs. For maintenance, there was
to be a yearly budget commitment of at least 3% of each municipality’s current revenues from the previous year. The
MCs specified the procedures for mobilization of the necessary resources and management skills to carry out the
designated functions. Counterpart funding was to be a prerequisite for project support of PIPs and MAPs.

Design was balanced in terms of infrastructure investments and institutional strengthening activities aimed at
sustaining outcomes. The first and second components related to service delivery and implementation of municipal
contracts were complementary to the institutional strengthening activities under the third component, which was to
institutionalize the measures needed to enhance the implementation of MCs through the improvement of local
governments’ ability to deliver services, provide effective management and oversight, and gradually increase the
collection of their own resources. However, design was ambitious and complex, especially in light of the country
context, involving several stakeholders at both national and local levels.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  1. Prior to Restructuring
1.1 To improve the provision of infrastructure and services in Conakry and selected secondary cities in support of
the Recipient’s decentralization process . Modest.
Outputs
Further improvements to the solid waste management system in Conakry planned under the project did not take
place, due to changes in government policy, and many of the gains realized under previous operations were lost. In
2011, the Government opted for the full privatization of the solid waste management system. By project closure, the
privatization was still not fully effective.
5.6 kilometers of non-rural roads were rehabilitated.
50 kilometers of urban drains were cleaned.
3,700 temporary jobs were created, involving wage payments of GNF4.2 billion.
Outcomes
As a result of the changes in policy regarding solid waste management services, and the consequent lack of further
improvements under the project, there was: (i) a decline in the rate of access to solid waste management services and
in garbage collection (62% of waste produced in 2011, compared to a baseline of 80%, and an original target of 90%),
(ii) a fall in the proportion of waste collected by SMEs (from 56% in 2005 to 19% in 2010); (iii) increases in illegal
dumping throughout the city, (iv) lower volumes of waste transferred to the landfill (25% of total waste produced in
2011, compared to a baseline of 80% and an original target of 90%), and (v) issues with the management of the
landfill.
81,000 people in urban areas were provided with access to all season roads within a 500 meter range
1.2 To improve the financial and organizational management of municipalities in support of the Recipient’s
decentralization process . Negligible.
None of the activities related to this objective appear to have been taken prior to the restructuring. There are,
therefore, no outputs or outcomes.
2. Post-Restructuring
2.1 To improve the provision of infrastructure and services in Conakry and selected secondary cities in support of
the Recipient’s decentralization process . Substantial.
Outputs
The following activities under the Priority Investment Programs (PIPs) in Conakry municipalities were financed by the
project, after restructuring: (i) three town halls were renovated and one extended (no target); (ii) 12 classrooms were
constructed in three municipalities (target 18); and (iii) one health center was constructed in one municipality, and a
youth center in another (no targets). Due to the lack of financial resources resulting from higher than anticipated
construction costs, five sub-projects included in the PIPs were not financed (six class rooms in four municipalities, and
a sports field).
A further 1.8 kilometers of roads were rehabilitated in Conakry municipalities, bringing the total to 7.4 kilometers,
slightly below the target (revised at restructuring) of 7.6 kilometers. The original target was 16 kilometers, but
practically all available financial resources had been used on the 5.6 kilometers completed before suspension.
The following activities under the Priority Investment Programs (PIPs) in secondary city municipalities were financed
by the project after restructuring: (i) 18 “investments” were built, rehabilitated or maintained to benefit the inhabitants
of poor neighborhoods (original target 40, revised target 20); (ii) 83 classrooms were equipped with ten boreholes (no
original target, target twelve at restructuring) for drinking water and lighting systems in five cities; (iii) a center for
training for girls was built in one municipality (no target); (iv) ten community water points were constructed, mostly in
schools (target thirteen at restructuring, no original target); (v) four bus stations with 350 parking spaces were built (as
per target at restructuring, no original target); and (vi) two markets totaling 420 stands were established, 49% of the
target at restructuring (no original target).
4,328 temporary jobs (that is, two-three months in duration) were created, 82% of the target of 5,300 established at
the restructuring. GNF6.1 billion (approximately US$85,400), 88% of the target of GNF7 billion (US$98,000) in wages
were distributed to the temporary workers. They were mainly occupied in cleaning and rehabilitating neighborhood
drains – 71 kilometers of drains were improved, exceeding the target of 55 kilometers.
Outcomes
The ICR states that, in total, 318,483 people benefited from improved access to urban services because of the
project; 52% of them were women. This exceeds the target set at restructuring of 249,000 people (51% women) by
28%. According to the ICR (footnote, page 41), “direct project beneficiaries include all persons benefiting from project
interventions, including those counted under access to roads, water, and sanitation in the results framework, plus
beneficiaries benefiting from other investments in secondary cities and not separately accounted for in the results
framework, such as health centers, schools, and market infrastructure. Direct project beneficiaries further include the
beneficiaries of the Labor Intensive Public Works Program financed by the Global Food Crisis Response Program
Grant.” The total estimated number of project beneficiaries includes a further 29,000 beneficiaries from urban road
rehabilitation, and 4,400 with access to sources of improved water.
6,640 people (mostly in schools) were provided with access to public sanitation facilities (92% of the target of 72,000
established at restructuring; there was no original target).
It is estimated that the improvement in school facilities in the secondary cities would enable local enrollment to
increase by 4.050 students, 90% of the target. It is not confirmed that this was, in fact, achieved.
5,800 school staff and children have access to drinking water thanks to the boreholes drilled under the project; this is
60% of the target at restructuring of 9,600 people.
The project-supported labor-intensive work program has been replicated and scaled up in other Conakry locations
(according to information supplied by the project team).
2.2 To improve the financial and organizational management of municipalities in support of the Recipient’s
decentralization process . Substantial.
Outputs
The following actions were carried out in the Conakry municipalities under the Municipal Adjustment Programs
(MAPs): (i) street addressing and investigation for tax purposes in three municipalities (in accordance with the revised
target at restructuring; the original target was five); (ii) specific training programs in computer science and local
finance; (iii) supplies of furniture and office equipment (computers and copiers, etc.) to the Town Halls in five Conakry
municipalities, the Health Center in one municipality and the Youth Center in another; (iv) ten motorcycles were
supplied to the municipalities; and (v) the Governorate of Conakry, the Secondary Roads Unit, and the Land
Management Directorate were provided with computer equipment and three motorcycles.
The following actions were carried out in the ten secondary cities under the MAPs: (i) specific training programs in
Information Technology and local finance were provided for the staff of the ten secondary city municipalities; and (ii)
office and computer equipment, furniture and ten motorcycles were supplied to the municipalities.
Five priority investment programs were prepared by five municipalities of Conakry based on an inventory of assets
and analysis of maintenance needs, thereby reaching the target set at restructuring.
Five of the ten communes of the secondary cities prepared priority investment programs based on an inventory of
assets and analysis of maintenance needs, thereby reaching the target set at restructuring.
The Governorate of Conakry and five municipalities developed annual routine maintenance programs in 2012 and
2013.
Three municipalities of Conakry put in place, and were using at closure, improved fiscal registers (original target five,
revised to three at restructuring). The database and processing system for municipal accounting, financial, and
budgetary information were installed at the National Directorate of Decentralization and in concerned communes and
municipalities.
Contracts for the management of infrastructure were established in five municipalities of Conakry in accordance with
the target set at restructuring, but only in the second quarter of 2013.
Eight communes in the secondary cities prepared quarterly budget reports in 2013 (meeting the target set at
appraisal), although some communes released them late.
Outcomes
The Governorate of Conakry and five Conakry municipalities developed annual routine maintenance programs in
2012 and 2013. In 2012 and 2013, three out of the five municipalities executed at least 80% of the budgeted annual
maintenance program. In the case of these municipalities, the amount spent on maintenance met or exceeded the
target of 3% of the total municipal budget.
Five out ten communes in the secondary cities earmarked budgets for maintenance in 2012. In 2013, nine communes
planned a maintenance budget ranging between 3% and 11% of current revenue. Before the end of the 2013 fiscal
year, five communes had executed 80% or more of their annual maintenance program.
Two market facilities and two bus stations are fully managed under public-private partnership (PPP) arrangements.
According to the project team, the bus stations are “operating effectively and efficiently, and are contributing to
increased economic activities by facilitating access to transport, and by the provision of 350 market stalls in the bus
stations.” The project team further reports that principal private bus companies are operating from the stations as
originally planned.
Improved tax registers and street addressing systems in three Conakry municipalities have likely contributed to
increased municipal revenues, although the extent of the contribution cannot be determined. Own revenues for
Conakry municipalities reportedly increased during the project period by 274%. There is, however, considerable doubt
about the quality of the baseline data. Moreover, even assuming the figures to be accurate, attribution to the project
would be weakened by the fact that increases took place during the period of suspension as well as before and after
it. The project made no impact on municipal revenues outside the three Conakry municipalities referred to since no
improvement in fiscal registers or street addressing took place and the activities were dropped at the restructuring.
No recorded progress was made in furthering decentralization, although the statement of objective included the
phrase “in support of the Recipient’s decentralization process.” As noted in Section 2c above, activities linked to
decentralization were dropped at restructuring.

Progress towards achievement of Program goals .
This was the second of two operations in an APG-supported two-Phase Program, which aimed to (a) improve the
living conditions of Conakry’s urban population through the provision of basic services, and (b) create an enabling
environment for sustained programming, financing and management of priority investments and services in major
urban centers.
Little evidence is presented concerning the achievement of the first of these goals, and there is no information on the
living standards of Conakry’s urban population. With regard to the second APL objective, the institutional
strengthening supported by the project can reasonably be expected to have enhanced the enabling environment for
management of priority urban investments and improved service delivery.
 5. Efficiency:
  No ex-ante economic analysis was conducted. An ex-post analysis was performed based on the restructured
project. The analysis covered the entire project cost. Two categories of benefits were considered – health-related
benefits from improved drinking water and access to sanitation, and benefits from enhanced mobilization due to
all-season roads (reduced commuting time, increased commercial activities, less vulnerability to flooding, improved
access to services, and lower transportation costs). Also taken into account were higher land values in project areas,
and increased productivity as a result of improved mobility and reduced risk of flooding. The analysis resulted in an
estimated 23% economic rate of return.

Excluding the Emergency Urban Labor-Intensive Public Works Program, added in 2008, actual project costs were
US$13.86 million, compared to an appraisal estimate of US$15 million. The appraisal estimate included US$1.56
million which had been allocated, according to the PAD, for the solid waste management improvements that did not
take place. Without this, the project cost US$0.42 million more than the appraisal estimate. Yet a number of activities
were dropped, particularly in the area of institutional strengthening. Several others delivered outputs below the target
revised at restructuring. The all-season roads sub-component had exhausted the allocated resources at appraisal
before the suspension of the project, but only 5.6 kilometers out of a planned 16 had been completed. In summary,
most activities suffered from cost overruns.

The project took 18 months longer to implement than expected (mainly due to a period of suspension), and many
critical activities were only completed during the last 6-8 months – for example, the implementation of the Municipal
Contracts was adversely affected by delays in delivery of local government staff training, Information Technology
equipment, infrastructure, budget reports, and designation of market and bus station management. Delays also
resulted from untimely provision of counterpart funding (see Section 9 below).

Efficiency is rated modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        No

     ICR estimate                     Yes                                      23%                                     100%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives and design is rated substantial. Prior to the restructuring, the efficacy of the first objective –
“improve the provision of infrastructure and services in Conakry and selected secondary cities” – is rated modest. The
planned enhancements in solid waste collection and management services did not take place, and standards
declined. Modest progress was made with other planned improvements. Efficacy of the second objective – “to improve
organizational and financial management of municipalities” – is rated negligible, since virtually no activities took place,
and no outcomes are recorded. After restructuring, efficacy of both objectives is rated substantial. There is evidence
of improved provision of infrastructure services in both the Conakry municipalities and those in secondary cities, and
also of enhanced management of both the communes themselves and of the infrastructure. Efficiency is rated modest
– many key outputs were not only short of what had been planned, but were only completed in the last six to eight
months of the implementation period; despite the shortfalls, project cost (excluding the emergency labor intensive
public works program and the projected cost of the solid waste management enhancements) exceeded appraisal
estimates. Outcome prior to restructuring is rated moderately unsatisfactory , while post restructuring is assessed as
moderately satisfactory . Applying the weighting indicated by the percentage of total Grant disbursements paid out at
restructuring (43.8%), yields an overall outcome assessment of moderately satisfactory .
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
  Overall, the risks to development outcome are assessed as high.

    The late completion of critical activities – both physical investments and institutional development activities – gives
     rise to concern about sustainability of outcomes. Staff training, Information Technology equipment delivery,
     infrastructure handover, submission of budget reports, delegation of market and bus station management only
      took place to a large extent during the last six-to-eight months of implementation.
     Operations and maintenance were being budgeted in most beneficiary municipalities at project closure. However,
      there is no firm basis for believing that the amounts budgeted would be sufficient for routine maintenance needs,
      and they may not be sustained once project support is withdrawn.
     While the project has been supported by the Government and local authorities, continued consolidation of
      decentralization is uncertain, and the 2006 Local Government Act remains largely unimplemented. The
      institutional development framework in cities is still not fully consolidated – for example, it is not clear whether the
      Municipal Contracts approach will continue to be applied following the end of the project. Uncertainty exists with
      regard to secured funding for continued capital expenditures. Regarding the solid waste sub-component, that
      was dropped from the project, the Government of Guinea opted for full privatization of the service, with uneven
      results to date.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
     Project design was informed by lessons from the previous phase and other projects, and by a number of
studies financed by a Project Preparation Facility. The lessons included: (i) the use of municipal audits can be a
crucial building block for Municipal Contracts, with audits providing baseline information on the spatial,
organizational and financial attributes of Guinean municipalities, as well as their priority needs; (ii) there needs to
be an annual budget commitment for maintenance (estimated, in this case, to be at least 3% of current revenues);
(iii) reliance on the private sector for service delivery (for example, garbage collection) can be beneficial provided
certain enabling measures remain in place (for example, clear contractual and zoning arrangements, refraining
from micro-management of the SMEs, a guarantee fund, appropriate technical assistance, supporting
infrastructure, and respect for the “rules of the game” by all parties); and (iv) reliable delivery of counterpart
funding is strongly linked to municipalities’ sense of “ownership” of the Municipal Contracts.

The overall implementation risk was rated high in view of (i) the (correctly) perceived weakness of Government
commitment to decentralization and in particular to the application of the 2006 Local Government Law; (ii) capacity
constraints on the effective implementation of Municipal Adjustment Programs; (iii) likely delays in delivering
counterpart funding; (iv) probable issues in procurement processing; and (v) limited private sector capacity to
deliver infrastructure services. Mitigating measures were effective in addressing those risks within the control of
the project team (for example, reporting requirements and compliance with safeguards and fiduciary policies), “but
were insufficient to address the wider country risks and lack of continuous momentum with regards to the
decentralization reform agenda” (ICR, page 8). The country risk proved more significant than was envisaged,
though this could not have been predicted at appraisal. The change in policy with regard to solid waste
management was not foreseen, though that also stemmed from political changes difficult to identify at appraisal.

Project costs were underestimated, due to high general inflation, which hit construction materials especially hard.
This would have been impossible to predict at appraisal.

M&E design and provision for safeguards and fiduciary compliance were adequate.

There were some moderate shortcomings. No economic analysis was carried out. Although some investments
were to be demand-driven, others – such as the solid waste management and all-season road improvement plans,
were firm. Given the lesson concerning audits as the basis for Municipal Contracts, a more substantial analysis of
the municipal finances of participating cities would have been useful. Implementation arrangements were complex
and challenging, especially given the country context (PAD, pages 13-14). Involved were the Central Government;
the Governorate of Conakry; five municipalities in Conakry and ten more in secondary cities; and a Steering
Committee (including representatives of three Government Ministries, the Governorate of Conakry, all
participating municipalities, the Project Coordinating Unit [PCU], SMEs and NGOs, and the newly created
Association of Guinean Mayors).


     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    After the December 2008 coup d’état, the Bank suspended all activities in the country. The project was
reactivated in February 2011, and subsequently restructured at the end of 2011 (ICR p. 2). The supervision team
was confronted with many difficulties in a volatile, low skill environment, particularly after the suspension. The
restructuring process (which replaced the mid-term review) required almost a year from project reactivation. Good
reporting by most of the municipalities allowed timely progress reviews and actions. The Bank team applied
flexibility, and contributed to bringing a challenging project, involving numerous implementing entities, to
completion, even though what was to have been one of its key achievements (consolidation and extension of the
solid waste management reforms attained under Phase 1) had to be dropped. The difficult issue of adequate and
timely counterpart funding was addressed with largely satisfactory results, and the team was able to make some
progress towards establishing a system aimed at ensuring better provision for operation and maintenance.

It is difficult to reconcile the satisfactory and moderately satisfactory ratings of both progress towards
Development Objectives and Implementation Progress in the three Implementation Status Reports filed in 2009
and 2010, during which time the project was suspended.

Although there were weaknesses in M&E implementation, these reflected the acutely difficult operating
environment.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government was faced with a difficult and volatile situation prior to suspension, and after reactivation
made special efforts to maximize the positive impact of the project, especially during the last six to eight months of
the implementation period. The Central Government assisted municipalities in meeting the latters' counterpart
funding obligations, albeit at a late stage, and intervened to resolve some key issues.

There were however, avoidable delays in collecting data for M&E purposes, and hiring construction supervision
firms in Conakry. While Municipal Contracts were quickly signed by the local authorities, there was significant
tardiness in obtaining the signatures of the relevant national ministries.

Following re-activation, the Government was slow to re-engage operationally with the Bank, a factor that
contributed to the bunching of activities in the last weeks of the implementation period.

There was inadequate supervision and guidance of the Solid Waste Transfer Public Unit (SPTD), which
contributed to a situation leading to a strategic change by the government on this subject and cancellation of the
related sub-component.

The risk of delay in providing counterpart funding was rated high (PAD p. 17), and materialized throughout the
project implementation. While ten communes and municipalities contributed their counterpart funds in full, the
state covered 24% of funds owed by two municipalities and three communes by the end 2012 through the
National Development Budget.

The “full privatization” solution to the issues in solid waste management displays symptoms of not been clearly
thought-through.


   Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project was implemented by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and by three groups of implementing
agencies – Central Government Ministries, Agencies’ operational units, and the municipalities.
   The PCU was faced with substantial staffing and budget challenges during and after the two year suspension
     period. Despite this, and the extremely difficult operating environment, the Unit managed to ensure that the
     majority of activities under the restructured project were carried out, albeit with procurement- and M&E-
     difficulties which contributed to the bunching of activities during the last six months of implementation.
     However, significant delays occurred with procurement, M&E, counterpart funding, resettlement related to
     roads, and completion of works. Priority Investment Program activities were cancelled in two cities due to
     contracting deadlines not being met, and were short of target in others. The PCU’s performance is rated
       moderately satisfactory.
      The main Central Government implementing agency was the Ministry of Construction, Urban Planning and
       Housing (Ministère des Travaux Publics, l’Urbanism, et de l’Habitat – MTPUH). The Ministry must bear some
       of the responsibility for the undermining of the solid waste management component. This process had already
       started prior to the suspension through reduced funding for the Public Solid Waste Transfer Service (Service
       Public de Transfert des Déchets – SPTD), and withdrawal of guarantee funds for the small and medium-sized
       enterprises. MTPUH accelerated implementation following re-activation, by dispatching staff to supervise the
       construction of works, albeit with some delay. Also involved in implementation was the Ministry of Interior and
       National Security (Ministère de l’Intérieur et de la Sécurité Nationale – MISN). It showed relatively strong
       commitment to the project prior to suspension, but after re-activation was slow in endorsing the revised
       Municipal Contracts. Central Government implementing agency performance is rated moderately
       unsatisfactory.
      The performance of the Agencies’ operational units working with the PCU and the municipalities was
       variable. The Directorates of Primary and Secondary Roads and the National tax Directorate were largely
       pro-active in implementing the project activities under their auspices. However, the performance of SPTD was
       weak and contributed to the cancelation of the solid waste management component. The performance of the
       operational units as a group is rated moderately satisfactory .
      The performance of the municipalities was undermined by significant capacity weaknesses, although within
       their limitations they mostly made noteworthy attempts to formulate and implement the Priority Investment
       Programs, the Municipal Adjustment Programs, and the Municipal Contracts. With two exceptions, the
       municipalities fulfilled their counterpart funding obligations, although with delays and with the support of the
       central authorities. The local governments managed to progress in activities related to improved budget
       reporting and formulating contracts for the management of infrastructure. Funding as agreed under the
       project was provided for the annual maintenance programs. On balance the municipalities’ performance is
       rated moderately satisfactory .

Overall implementing agency performance is assessed as moderately satisfactory .

      Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

      Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The PCU was made responsible for managing M&E, a task it had also performed under Phase 1. The
arrangements were outlined in the PCU’s Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual, and included
description of monitoring tools developed under Phase 1. In managing M&E, the PCU was expected to coordinate
with the different implementing agencies whose performance is discussed in Section 9b above.

Two overall outcome indicators were specified in the PAD (Annex 3): the percentage of Conakry’s population with
access to solid waste management (SWM) services through the project; and the increase in municipal revenues. It is
unclear why access to SWM services, which accounted for 23% of the cost of Component 1, and just over 10% of
total project cost, should have been singled out as an outcome indicator.

In addition, the following “intermediate” indicators were specific to each component:
   Component 1 (Conakry): percentage of solid waste generated collected by SMEs; percentage of solid waste
     generated transferred by SPTD to the landfill; kilometers of secondary roads built, rehabilitated, and maintained;
     increase in municipalities’ own revenues; and share of revenues allocated and spent on routine maintenance.
   Component 2 (secondary cities): number of “investments” built, rehabilitated and maintained to benefit poor
     neighborhoods; increase in municipalities’ own revenues; and share of revenues allocated and spent on routine
     maintenance.
   Component 3 (institutional strengthening ): number of municipalities of Conakry with improved fiscal registers in
     place and in use; increase of tax rolls issued during project lifetime; and increase in municipal tax revenues
     collected during the project’s lifetime.
   Component 4 (labor intensive public works , added in 2008): number of temporary jobs created (two-to-three
     months); wages distributed to workers; and length of drains cleaned and neighborhood streets rehabilitated.
There were baseline value and targets for these indicators, where appropriate, although the quality of the baseline
data was questionable in some instances..
 b. M&E Implementation:
   Inevitably, M&E implementation was affected by the difficult environment of reduced security and high risk.
However, the Municipal Contracts were reviewed on an annual basis, and amended after the project restructuring.
Until the December 2008 coup d’état, the Government and PCU provided the Bank with quarterly progress monitoring
reports, quarterly financial management reports, annual information about progress on key sector performance
indicators, audited annual financial statements and such other information as the Bank required.

At the level 2 restructuring in December 2011, the two outcome indicators established at appraisal were replaced by
new indicators since solid waste activities were dropped from the project and increases in municipal revenues could
not be attributed to the project due to the suspension. The new indicators were: number of people with improved
access to urban and social services (no quantitative measure for “improved access”); number of people in urban
areas provided with access to all-season roads within a 500 meter range; number of local governments generating
budget reports on time; number of local governments having established effective management systems to operate
commercial infrastructure; number of direct project beneficiaries; and number of female beneficiaries.

Formal reporting was reinstated after re-activation in February 2011, and the new indicators began to be used
forthwith, although they were not formalized until the restructuring of December, 2011. However, there were important
shortcomings in M&E management with regard to timely collection and analysis of the data required to assess project
performance, notably in the area of asset maintenance. The ICR (page 10) notes that special efforts had to be made
prior to the ICR mission to ensure the availability of information necessary to evaluate the project.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR contains no information on M&E utilization However, it is likely that delays in collecting and analyzing data
on indicators weakened the system’s usefulness.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as Category “B” for purposes of environmental assessment. In addition to Environmental
Assessment (OP 4.01), the Involuntary Resettlement safeguard (OP 4.12) was triggered.
The PAD (page 21) reports that since “the actual sites and potential localized negative impacts o f the future
investments could not be identified prior to appraisal, and to ensure that the proposed project addresses potential
adverse environmental and social impacts properly, the Borrower has prepared an Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF).” The ESMF and RPF were discussed
at consultations and disclosed in-country and in Infoshop on December 29, 2006.

Concerning OP 4.12, the ICR reports that, due to capacity constraints in the PCU and in the Ministry of Environment,
Water and Forests (MEEF), a consultant was retained to assist in the preparation of Resettlement Action Plans
(RAPs) needed on the last section (1.7 kilometers) of the urban road rehabilitation program. According to the ICR, the
RAP “was compliant with Bank safeguards policies; the document was certified by the MEEF by end 2012, and the
affected households were resettled and compensated.” The ICR notes that delays in the process significantly delayed
delivery of the project output (all-season roads). In the secondary cities, “some delays were noted with regard to land
acquisition……, but all issues were resolved as part of the preparation of each sub project.”

The ICR provides little information on the actions taken regarding OP 4.01, and does not state whether or not that
safeguard policy was complied with. There is a general statement to the effect that “the rating of safeguards [in
Implementation Status Reports] was Satisfactory before project suspension, Moderately Unsatisfactory during Bank
reengagement, and mostly Moderately Satisfactory after project restructuring until the end of the project.”

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management. The ICR (page 11) reports that “overall, the project had an adequate financial management
system that generally provided, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information that funds were being
used for intended purposes.” According to Implementation Status Reports, Implementation Status Reports, financial
management “arrangements [were] found to be “Satisfactory before project suspension and Moderately Satisfactory
from November 2009 until the project end (downgrading a result of country circumstances).” The ICR states (page 10)
that the PCU provided the Bank with annually audited financial statements, but does not indicate whether there were
any qualifications in the auditor’s opinions. The summary of the Borrower’s ICR (ICR, page 60) states that “Audit
obligations were met during project implementation. The PCU project accounts were audited for each fiscal year by an
independent firm hired for this purpose. The audit reports were regularly provided to the Bank in a timely manner, with
the exception of 2012 when the transmission of the report encountered a slight delay due to the change of staff.”

Procurement. Although significant procurement training was provided, timely management of procurement remained a
challenge for PCU staff, as evidenced in delays. Procurement was rated Moderately Satisfactory in Implementation
Status Reports after project suspension until project closure. There were no reported cases of misprocurement.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                                ICR                  IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                         Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development High                          High
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately             There were a moderate shortcomings in
                                                            Satisfactory           Quality at Entry, including the lack of an
                                                                                   economic or financial analysis at
                                                                                   appraisal, and complex and challenging
                                                                                   implementation arrangements in a
                                                                                   difficult country context.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The first three of the following lessons are taken from the ICR with some adaptation of language. The fourth is
drawn by IEG:
Sustaining and deepening reforms at national and local levels , especially in a fragile state context , requires
identification of a clear reform target . The project aimed at deepening decentralization reforms. However, the lack
of a clear reform agenda with related targets, combined with disruptions in the institutional and political setting to
render the reform agenda largely open and unresolved at project closure.
Fragile states are frequently affected by erosion in the purchasing power of the local currency , and if this is not
taken sufficiently into account through adequate contingencies, project implementation and outcomes are likely to
be adversely affected.
High risk projects with multiple stakeholder involvement in pursuit of a reform agenda require effective and visible
political backing at a central level . The lack of such guidance in this case resulted in a weak link between project
activities and decentralization reform, and in insufficient coordination and strategic direction of the project, in
particular during the most difficult phases of transition (such as before and after Bank re-engagement).
Sustaining project dialogue with a client during a period of suspension (anticipated to be temporary ) is critical to
allow reasonable recovery following the suspension . In this case, regular contact was maintained by the
supervision team.

14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is well written, concise and comprehensive, with considerable detailed information made available in
annexes. The extensive tabular presentation of outputs and outcomes in Annex 2 is especially helpful. The ex-post
economic analysis is thorough and takes account of price distortions. There are some shortcomings. Discussion of
safeguards compliance (especially the environmental safeguard) is sparse and there is no clear statement of
compliance or otherwise. Discussion of external audits is partial and largely confined to the Borrower’s ICR. Estimated
and actual project costs in Annex 1 are based on the Grant amount, and there is no explanation of the substantial
difference between estimated and actual counterpart contributions.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
