Document of
The World Bank                      FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2614-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED LOANS TO
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
AND
SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI A.O.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR TEXTILE PROJECT
August 9, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               Calendar 1978                   July 19791/
US Dollar 1         =          TL 24.28                     TL 47.10
TL 1                =         US$  0.04                     US$ 0.02
1/ Note:  This Report and the Staff Appraisal Report have been prepared
on the basis of the exchange rate of TL25   US$1.00, which prevailed
until Turkey introduced a multiple exchange rate system in April 1979
which was again modified on June 11, 1979.
2/ Except for imports of crude oil, petroleum products and fertilizer raw
materials, and exports of agricultural products benefiting from official
price supports, for which it is TL 35 = US$1.00.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey                               March 1 to February 28
TSKB                                             January 1 to December 31
SYKB                                             January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CLAs                                   Convertible Lira Accounts
EEC                                    European Economic Community
LA                                     Loan Agreement
LIBOR                                  London Inter Bank Offer Rate
SEE                                    State Economic Enterprise
SYKB                                   Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi A.O.
TSKB                                   Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY - PRIVATE SECTOR TEXTILE PROJECT
LOANS AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers:           Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S. (TSKB)
Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi A.O. (SYKB)
Guarantor:           Republic of Turkey
Amounts:             US$65 million and US$15 million in various currencies to
TSKB and SYKB respectively
Terms:               TSKB loan
(a) $60.1 million for equipment financing to be repaid
substantially in conformity with the aggregate of the
amortization schedules for sub-loans, with a maximum
repayment period of 15 years.
(b) $4.9 million for technical assistance (extension
service and technology fund), research and training
to be repaid over 7 years including 3 years grace.
SYKB loan
(c) $14.9 million for equipment financing to be repaid
substantially in conformity with the aggregate of the
amortization schedules for sub-loans, with a maximum
repayment period of 15 years.
(d) $0.1 million for training to be repaid over 7 years
including 3 years grace.
Interest at 7.9 percent per annum.
Project
Description:         The key project objective is to rationalize and modernize
the private textile sector by improving sectoral balance,
while promoting essential expansion and value added by
the sub-sector. Related objectives are to: improve
productivity and product quality, lower costs to domestic
consumers, improve export competitiveness, induce moderni-
zation of equipment, promote exports and input sapply to
enhance export quality, and improve the institutional and
policy framework for the sub-sector.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Major components are:
(i) $75 million for sub-projects.
(ii) $4.5 million for technical assistance ($1.2 million
for an extension service providing training and
consultancy services, and $3.3 million for a supple-
mentary training, technical assistance and technology
fund).
(iii) $0.5 million for staff training for TSKB ($0.1 mil-
lion) and SYKB ($0.1 million) and for TSKB textile
research ($0.3 million).
To achieve the project objectives, 35-45 firms will be
assisted, creating about 5,000 jobs directly. Of these,
about 3,000 will meet the urban poverty criterion for
capital-intensity. Annual exports worth $25 million are
expected to be generated. Up to 160 firms, representing
one-third of the sub-sector's capacity, will benefit
through technical assistance. The project will develop
the DFCs' capability for lending in this sub-sector,
and sensitize them and their clients, to environmental
problems. For all sub-projects with fixed assets above
$2 million and $750,000, respectively, TSKB and SYKB will
calculate the ERR, which normally will be at least 15
percent.
Project risks are minimal. Achievement of the targets for
garments/making up investments and the export targets
under the project will depend largely on market constraints
abroad. Implantation of the extension service may prove
slow. Full use of the technology fund will depend on
successful promotion. Steps have been taken to minimize
these risks, and the potential benefits justify taking
those risks that remain.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                 -----------$ Million------------
Bank FY                   80    81    82    83    84    85
Annual                   20.0  30.0  20.0   7.0   2.9   0.1
Cumulative               20.0  50.0  70.0  77.0  79.9  80.0
Procurement:         Normal commercial channels, but with comparison of offers
from more than one supplier, for the majority of contracts.
Adequate international tendering for contracts over $2 mil-
lion. Most projects will have allocations around $2 million,
with a maximum of $6 million.
Appraisal
Report:              No. 2525b-TU, dated July 27, 1979, issued by the IDF
Division, EMENA Region



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED LOANS TO
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. AND
SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI A.O.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR TEXTILE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on proposed loans
to Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S. (TSKB) and Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi
Bankasi A.O. (SYKB) with the guarantee of the Republic of Turkey, for the
equivalents of US$65 and US$15 million respectively, to help finance the
rationalization and modernization of the private sector textile industry in
Turkey. For the TSKB loan, amortization of US$60.1 million for equipment will
conform substantially to the aggregate of the subproject amortization sched-
ules, and will not exceed 15 years; amortization of US$4.9 million for tech-
nical assistance (an extension service and technology fund), research and
staff training will be over 7 years including 3 years grace. For the SYKB
loan, amortization of US$14.9 million for equipment will conform substantially
to the aggregate of the subproject amortization schedules, and will not exceed
15 years; amortization of US$0.1 million for staff training will be over 7 years
including 3 years grace. The interest rate will be 7.9 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report (No. 1272-TU) entitled "Country Economic Memo-
randum - Turkey" dated October 21, 1976, was circulated to the Executive
Directors on November 2, 1976. The situation subsequently deteriorated,
culminating in a serious economic crisis. This Part analyzes these develop-
ments. (A fuller account may be found in the Economic Annex to the Report
and Recommendation of the President on the Erdemir Stage II Steel P'roject,
dated June 15, 1978.) It also describes the short and medium-term policy
initiatives of the Ecevit Government which took power in early 1973, and
cautiously assesses economic prospects. A special economic missioin visited
Turkey in April 1979 to review the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83). A com-
prehensive report on the medium-term outlook is being prepared based on
its findings.
Economic Structure and Causes of 1977 Crisis
3.        In most respects, the record of Turkish economic development over
the last two decades has been good. As the result of a strong commitment to
rapid growth and modernization, real output has grown, on average, by more
than 6 percent per annum. Laudable strides have also been made towards
meeting basic needs in such areas as education, health care, water supply,
and rural roads   This impressive record has been punctuated (in 1958, 1970
1/   Part I of this Report is virtually identical to Part I of the July 1979
President's Report on the Thirteenth TSKB project.



- 2 -
and most recently in 1977) by severe balance-of-payments crises. The recent
crisis has been the product partly of extraneous factors and partly of the
Turkish development strategy itself, which paid insufficient attention to the
structural weaknesses of the economy and perhaps exacerbated some of them.
4.        The emphasis of successive governments on industrialization doubled
the sector's share in total output between 1955 and 1977, but resulted in
comparative neglect of agricultural development, already hampered by inappro-
priate subsidy and pricing policies. Moreover, although some parts of
Turkish industry are efficient, and more have the potential to become so, a
strong emphasis so far on sophisticated capital-intensive technology has
resulted in high-cost production in certain sectors. Unselective protection
against competition from imports has also inhibited the development of an
industrial structure well-suited to Turkey's comparative advantages in terms
of location, natural resources and labor availability. One important con-
sequence of this, has been that Turkey has so far been unable to develop a
strong industrial export base, and has relied mainly instead on its tradi-
tional agricultural exports (supplemented by workers' remittances) to finance
the imports of materials and capital goods needed for its ambitious moderni-
zation effort. This pattern of trade has been a fundamental cause of the
difficulty which Turkey has periodically experienced in reconciling rapid
growth with a viable external payments position.
5.        During the world recession of the mid 1970s, unlike many other
countries, the average annual real rate of GDP growth in Turkey was 7.2
percent. This includes 1977 when real GDP grew by only 4.4 percent, follow-
ing the economic crisis that year and shortages of power, imported inputs
and the like. Growth over this period was made possible by rising public
sector activity, which provided a stimulus to aggregate demand that more than
offset the depressing effect of sluggish exports and the increased outflow
of payments for oil and other imports. The growth of output was therefore
constrained not by demand, but by supply. Favorable weather and improved
inputs led to an average annual rate of growth of agricultural output of about
4.1 percent in the period 1970-77, while industrial output grew at about 9.2
percent--principally as a result of the sustained high level of industrial
investment. The general pace of investment in Turkey also did not slacken
during the world recession of the mid 1970s. On the contrary, largely
as the result of an intensified public investment drive from 1975 onwards, the
share of fixed investment in GDP remained around 20 percent during 1973-78.
6.        In this period, employment was not at the forefront of development
objectives. Unemployment and underemployment were relatively high, totaling
about 11 percent of the labor force in 1970 and over 13 percent in 1977.
The underlying causes, aggravated by a sharp reduction in the emigration
rate since 1973, are a high rate (2.5 percent per annum) of population growth
and the adoption of relatively capital-intensive methods of production in the
modern sectors of agriculture and industry. The comparatively slow rate of
growth of employment has also had an adverse effect on the distribution of
income, although basic needs are largely met. The two main causes of this
inequality, however, are the large gap between agricultural and non-
agricultural labor productivity and the wide dispersion of farmers' incomes.



- 3 -
7.        During the mid 1970s, Turkey's external trading position deteriorated
markedly due to rapid increases in imports of goods. These tripled, in value
between 1973 and 1977, reaching $5.8 billion. About half this increase was
due to rising world prices, including a four-fold rise in the price of oil,
which currently accounts for one third of the import bill. The other half was
due to a steep rise in the volume of imports.
8.        High import demand has been characteristic of Turkey in t:he 1970s,
and may partly be a "catching up" phenomenon. In 1970, after a decade
of strict import rationing, the ratio of imports to GDP was only 7 percent,
about half the average for countries of Turkey's size and stage of develop-
ment. By 1977, after several years of liberalization of import restrictions,
it reached 14 percent. This process was associated with increased imported
inputs in agriculture and changes in industrial structure and technology,
which rested growth on imported inputs. After 1973, the growth of imports
was accelerated by: a fall in the local currency price of imported goods
relative to domestic output, due to a rate of inflation which exceeded the
international inflation rate by more than the rate of depreciation of the
TL against other currencies; an absolute shortage of domestically produced
goods; an increase in the share of fixed investment in total expenditure; and
a tendency to build up imported stocks in anticipation of devaluation or
import restrictions.
9.        From 1970 to 1973, rising imports were more or less offset by rapid
expansion of exports--particularly manufactured exports such as cotton yarn
and fabric, leather products and processed food--and workers' remittances.
In value terms, merchandise exports increased from $588.5 million in 1970
to $1,317 million in 1973, or 31 percent per annum. Manufactured exports
increased even faster--from $100.3 million in 1970 to $443.4 million in 1973,
or by 64 percent per annum. In volume terms, they increased by an average
annual rate of 22 percent, a very high rate indeed. The increase in workers'
remittances was even more dramatic--up from $273 million in 1970 to $1,183
million in 1973, reaching a peak of $1.4 billion in 1974. Since 1973 however,
export performance has been weak and remittances also declined after 1974.
The value of exports of goods rose by 33 percent between 1974 and 1977, when
it reached $1.8 billion, mainly due to rising world prices; in volume terms,
they showed no upward trend. Thus by 1977, merchandise exports were only
one-third of the imports.
10.       The poor showing of exports between 1974-77, is partly attributable
to world recession. This not only affected industrial exports; it also
depressed Turkish agricultural exports such as hazelnuts, raisins and tobacco,
and industrial raw materials like cotton. The difficulties were aggravated by
two other factors: (a) agricultural support prices bore little relation to
world prices, and thus failed to provide incentives to farmers to increase
production of exportable commodities; and (b) this was compounded by a general
neglect of agricultural development, buoyant domestic demand for its produce
and ineffective administration of its export sales. More importantly, indus-
trial exports, presently only 7 percent of the value of industrial output,
were stifled by a more rapid increase of production costs in Turkey than in
her trading partners, which was insufficiently offset by periodic small



-4-
devaluations of the TL. Consequently, exporting, which had been lucrative in
the early 1970s, became less profitable, and potentially exportable production
was diverted to a booming and profitable domestic market.
11.       The current account balance moved from a surplus of $0.5 billion in
1973 to a deficit of $3.5 billion in 1977, because of a rapid deterioration
in the trade balance, besides a decline in workers' remittances from a peak of
$1.4 billion in 1974 to around $1 billion in 1977. One important cause of this
has been the restrictions on immigration imposed by Western European countries
in the face of growing domestic unemployment caused by the world recession.
The rate at which earnings were remitted also fell substantially. This partly
reflected the overvaluation of the TL, which induced workers to hold their
savings abroad or remit through unofficial channels.
12.       The large current account deficit was not matched by an increased
inflow of medium and long-term external capital. Turkey had deliberately kept
both foreign private investment and private long-term borrowing to a minimum.
The gross inflow from official long-term borrowing during 1970-75 stagnated at
about $300 million per annum. Initially, this was due to a manageable need
for foreign finance, given the tremendous increase in workers' remittances in
the early 1970s. Subsequently, it was because of a lack of experience and
initiative on the part of successive governments to develop and tap new
sources of external borrowing, when faced with a decline in multilateral and
bilateral lending on concessional terms. While in 1976 and 1977, long-term
loan commitments rose to over $1 billion per annum, disbursements continued to
be slow because most loans were tied to specific projects, whose implementa-
tion was slow. Consequently, the overall balance of payments moved from a
surplus of $0.9 billion in 1973 to a deficit of $2.4 billion in 1977. It was
financed by running down the foreign exchange reserves and by various forms of
short-term borrowing, which by the end of 1977 totalled $6.5 billion.
13.       An important source of short-term borrowing was the Convertible Lira
Accounts (CLAs). It provided nearly $2 billion in 1975 and 1976. These are
deposits placed with Turkish banks by foreign commercial banks and non-
resident Turks, which were guaranteed until last year against exchange rate
risk, by the Central Bank. Another major source of finance was short-term
suppliers' credits, partly covered by export credit insurance in the export-
ing countries. A swap facility was also established with the Bank for Inter-
national Settlements, and a scheme whereby the Dresdner Bank took in time
deposits from Turkish workers in Germany, offered high interest rates, and
made the proceeds available to Turkey. During 1977 however, foreign banks
became reluctant to rollover the outstanding stock of short-term debt, and
even more reluctant to make further substantial loans. The Central Bank was
driven to delaying foreign exchange transfers on a large scale. The resulting
substantial accumulation of arrears, made it even harder to obtain new credits.
14.       The deterioration in the balance of payments position can also
be viewed partly as a reflection of inadequate efforts at demand management
and domestic resource mobilization, especially in the public sector. The
public sector deficit rose steadily from TL 6 billion (2 percent of GDP) in
1973 to TL 77 billion (9 percent of GDP) in 1977. This occurred despite a
creditable tax performance and was mainly due to a deterioration in the



- 5 -
financial position of the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), and in particular
of the operational SEEs which dominate the transport and energy sectors and
account for half the output of mining and manufacturing. Successive govern-
ments, in an effort to slow inflation, held the price increases of operational
SEEs below the rate at which their already high costs were rising, thus
transforming a TL 5 billion profit in 1973 into a TL 20 billion loss in 1977.
The scale of SEE investment was also greatly escalated, further widening the
gap between public sector savings and public sector investment. Most of the
increased deficit was financed by borrowing from the Central Bank, since
administered ceilings on interest rates made it hard to attract suEficient
purchasers for government bonds. As a result, and despite a large decline in
the foreign exchange reserves, the money supply increased rapidly, at an
average annual rate of about 30 percent between 1974 and 1977.
15.       The rate of inflation (as measured by the wholesale price index)
declined from 30 percent in 1974 to 10 percent in 1975, but rose to 24 percent
in 1977. Besides cost-push influences on the price level (including a power-
ful labor union movement and a farmer-oriented agricultural price support
policy), the recent trend also results from excess demand caused by the
enlargement of the public sector deficits and the private investment boom.
Recent Economic Programs and Performance
16.       Tentative stabilization measures to stem the resulting economic
crisis, taken by the coalition government of Mr. Demirel towards the end of
1977, did not go far enough and came too late. In early 1978, a new govern-
ment, with a small but working majority, came to power under Mr. Ecevit. It
purposefully set about taking painful, but essential, steps to restore order
in the chaotic economic house it inherited and build up the confidence of the
international financial community in Turkey's future. It swiftly formulated
a package of stabilization measures as part of the 1978 Budget and Annual
Program. This formed the basis of a Standby Agreement with the IMF in April,
1978. In summary, the short and medium term remedies applied by t:he Govern-
ment to solve the economic crisis contain four salient elements. First,
restraint of domestic demand relative to output, through increases in public
and private savings relative to domestic investment. Second, measures that
directly boost exports substantially, including the maintenance oE competi-
tiveness, or that restrain imports. Third, sustained efforts to obtain a
substantial increase in medium and long-term external loans. Fourth, pari
passu with the rescheduling of the outstanding stock of short-tenn debts,
conversion of these debts into medium-term obligations, and exercise of
strict control over future short-term borrowing. Ultimately, considerable
restructuring of the economy to rectify imbalances in Turkey's current
foreign trade pattern, will be entailed.
17.       To raise domestic savings relative to domestic investment, the
Ecevit government, between March and May 1978, increased a wide range of
SEE prices and tariffs. In early September 1978, SEE prices for petroleum,
petroleum products and sugar were increased by 80 percent. All price in-
creases together were expected to add TL 54 billion to SEE revenues in a
full year. The Government also substantially raised the stamp duty on



- 6 -
imports, and proposed to the Parliament, a number of other tax revenue mea-
sures, including a large increase in motor vehicle, income, corporation and
municipal taxes, as part of a broader set of measures designed to enhance the
efficiency and equity of the fiscal system. To control public sector expendi-
tures, especially investment, it decided to concentrate on the completion of
existing projects and cut back on new projects, except in the bottleneck
energy and ports sectors, and for exports and such basic imported commodities
as steel and fertilizers. In these ways, the Government aimed to markedly
reduce public sector deficits and public sector borrowing from the Central
Bank. In conjunction with other limits on Central Bank lending agreed with
the IMF, these were expected to reduce the rate of growth of the money supply
and the availability of credit, so as to restrain investment and consumption.
To mobilize private savings, most interest rates, including those on govern-
ment bonds and the repatriated savings of migrant workers were increased.
18.       Despite the stringency of these politically difficult stabilisation
measures, the results were mixed. The consolidated budget deficit in 1978 is
officially estimated at about TL 34 billion, compared with TL 48 billion in
1977. But the rate of growth of the money supply in 1978 was 37 percent,
roughly the same as in 1977. Moreover, the price level rose very sharply
in 1978, even at the end of the year, the rate of inflation was around 50
percent per annum. Money wages also increased at an annual rate of over 50
percent, despite the Government's "social contract" with the largest trade
union federation in July 1978.
19.       To discourage imports and stimulate exports further, the TL was
devalued against the dollar three times between September 1977 and March 1978,
by a total of about 50 percent. In addition, it drifted downwards with the
dollar against other currencies. The effect of this devaluation on imports
was augmented by the increase in stamp duty in 1978 and in the short term,
also by government's decisions to reduce imports of investment goods and give
priority to imports of materials and spares needed to maintain, as far as
possible, output from existing installed capacity. This, together with the
shortage of foreign exchange, resulted in a drop in merchandise imports from
$5.8 billion in 1977 to about $4.6 billion in 1978. This compares with the $5
billion figure envisaged under the April 1978 Standby Agreement.
20.       As regards exports, the effects of the devaluations were partly
offset by a reduction in April 1978 of export rebates. In July 1978, these
rebates were increased again. As an additional financial incentive, the
Government accorded priority in the allocation of foreign exchange for the
purchase of imported inputs for export production and that of essential
goods for domestic sale. Exporters have also been given special permission
to finance their import requirements through acceptance credits. The degree
of priority accorded to exporters in the allocation of domestic credit
through the banking system was increased, as were the interest rate rebates
on domestic borrowing by exporters. An inter-ministerial Export Coordination
Committee set up to resolve the problems faced by exporters, has succeeded in
simplifying some export licensing and registration procedures. Export targets
have been set for SEEs and Agricultural Sales Cooperatives. The Government
took prompt steps to earn foreign exchange by disposing of large existing



- 7 -
stocks of exportable commodities, notably wheat. It also took steps to:
restrain domestic demand through its fiscal, monetary and price policies,
help prevent diversion of potential export goods for domestic use, and improve
competitiveness through exchange rate adjustments. In response, the value of
exports rose by 28 percent in 1978 to around $2.25 billion. But this was
below the $2.6 billion anticipated in the Standby Agreement.
21.       With these developments in foreign trade and a marginal decrease
in worker remittances over the 1977 level, current account deficit dropped
markedly to an estimated $1.7 billion in 1978. This compares favorably to
$3.5 billion in 1977 and the $1.8 billion deficit anticipated in the Standby
Agreement. This substantial reduction, achieved mainly by severe curbing of
imports, and vigorous efforts to raise fresh medium and long-term funds along
with the rescheduling of existing debt (para. 23) led to an improved balance
of payments position. Nevertheless, the overall 1978 deficit is estimated at
about $900 million, some $150 million more than that envisaged in the Standby
Agreement. On a net basis, it was financed by $180 million in IMF drawings
(para. 22), $340 million in petroleum and Eurodollar loans, $145 million from
the Dresdner Bank scheme and the remaining $235 million from various commer-
cial banking sources.
22.       The Standby Agreement provided for the immediate withdrawal of about
$89 million in compensatory financing. In addition, since the Witteveen
Facility was not in operation, Turkey was eligible to draw up to 150 percent
of its quota, amounting to about $360 million, under the Exceptional Circum-
stances clause. This entitled Turkey to withdraw $60 million in May 1978. A
further drawing of $48 million was made in September, following renewed dis-
cussions between the Government and the IMF concerning short-term economic
developments and prospects. Further discussions with the IMF to revise the
stabilization package in light of developments since April, prior to the
release of the remaining tranches of about $252 million, took place in December.
23.       Since April 1978, Turkey has taken steps to cope with its large
stock of short-term debt ($6.5 billion at the end of 1977). The exchange rate
guarantee on new CLAs with a maturity under one year was removed, stemming new
inflows of these deposits. It also secured, from the members of the OECD
Consortium for Turkey, a rescheduling of approximately $1.2 billion in interest
and principal payments falling due between January 1977 and June 1979, on
public bilateral debt and private debt guaranteed by bilateral export finan-
cing agencies. The terms were 2 years grace followed by 4 years to repay for
short maturities, and 3 years grace with 5 years repayment for longer-term
maturities; the interest rates were to be negotiated bilaterally. Bilateral
agreements have now been signed with all countries concerned. However, nearly
$1 billion of unguaranteed trade debts remain to be rescheduled. Finally,
negotiations have been completed with some 220 commercial banks involved, to
consolidate about $3.0 billion of outstanding short-term liabilities (includ-
ing most of the CLAs, arrears on CLAs, reimbursement credits and banker's
credits) into obligations with a maturity of 7 years, including 3 years of
grace, at an interest rate 1.75 percent above LIBOR. In view of the complexi-
ties and numbers of banks involved, progress on this was slow. But reschedul-
ing agreements are ready and are expected to be signed after the ongoing



- 8 -
discussions with the IMF have been completed. While all these efforts have
eased the debt servicing burden for 1978 and 1979, it will cause a substantial
bulge in debt service payments in the early 80s.
24.       Concurrently, the Government pursued new sources of medium and
long-term external finance, including the Middle East. In response to this
initiative: Germany provided program credits of $75 million and project
credits of $72 million; the US, Austria and Belgium provided program loans
totalling $70 million; Libya provided a program credit of $100 million and
another $300 million spread over five years to finance oil imports; Iran
provided a short-term credit of $150 million for oil imports; an agreement
was also signed with the Saudi Fund for $250 million in project aid; Austria,
Norway and Finland provided project credits; trade agreements were signed
with Romania, Bulgaria and U.S.S.R. Another indication of Turkey's change
of direction in seeking external financing vigorously, is the engagement for
the first time of internationally-reputed investment firms to assist in the
rescheduling exercises and the tapping of new sources of private capital in
Europe and U.S. As a first step, in conjunction with the commercial bank
rescheduling, a fresh loan of about $400 million from a group of banks was
envisaged, with disbursement contingent on a new Standby Agreement.
25.       The discussions begun in December 1978 between Turkey and IMF on
a revised stabilization program were interrupted because of difficulties in
reaching agreement on certain important policy issues. They have since been
resumed (see para 27). The discussions focussed on the need to continue the
austerity measures initiated in early 1978 and to strengthen efforts to cope
with excessive monetary growth, sagging SEE finances and the high inflation
rate. It is evident that progress in these areas is complementary to stricter
control of imports, tight control over short-term borrowings and the growth of
arrears, and the continuation of foreign trade policies and measures directed
to improve the balance of payments position further.
26.       Against this background, adopting the pattern followed in early
1978, the Government announced its revised stabilization program in mid-March
1979 and amplified it further in early April. To improve the financial
position of SEEs, increased prices of sugar (34 percent), iron and steel (41
percent), cement (63 percent), gasoline (84 percent), fuel oil (80 percent),
diesel fuel (82 percent) and kerosene (110 percent), were announced. These
prices are now well above their imported costs at the current rate of exchange.
The Government estimates that these increases will together, yield an addi-
tional TL 80 billion in the current Turkish fiscal year and significantly
reduce the SEE deficits, despite inflation in costs and wages (although the
latter will be restrained by new limits on the growth of SEE employment).
To ensure more effective mobilization and allocation of fiscal resources,
interest rates for both deposits and lending have been substantially augmented.
For time deposits, increased rates range from 12 percent for deposits between
6-12 months, to 24 percent for those between 3-4 years; in addition, the
repatriated savings of migrant workers will receive an interest premium of 10
percentage points (15 points for deposits above 3 years). The interest rates
for medium and long-term loans have been considerably increased: in the



- 9 -
agricultural sector from 10.5 percent to 16 percent; for small-scale indus-
trial enterprises from 10.5 percent to 16 percent; and for general lending in
industrial and other sectors from 16 to 20 percent. There is no ceiling in
respect of loans extended by development and investment banks using funds
acquired through the domestic bond issues of at least 5 years maturity.
However, interest rate rebates have been increased for export oriented enter-
prises, and for those established in the poorer areas of Turkey.
27.       To improve the balance of payments, a number of steps were taken.
The TL was devalued against the US Dollar by about 6 percent to Til 26.5 =
US$1. Pari passu, a multiple exchange rate regime was introduced for the
first time, under which a more favorable exchange rate with a premium of 40
percent (TL 37.1 = US$1) became applicable for foreign tourists, workers'
remittances and repatriated savings. This favorable rate carried an addi-
tional premium, bringing the effective rate to TL 47.1, if transactions took
place up to May 9, and to TL 42.1 for those made between May 10 and June 9,
1979. In addition, a significant development was the creation of an officially
sanctioned, but still limited, parallel market in respect of manufactured and
mineral exports. Specifically, Turkish industrial exporters could retain 50
percent of their foreign exchange earnings and either use this to finance
their own import requirements or transfer it to other industrialists, at what-
ever price it fetched. All these measures announced in April went in the
desirable direction, although it was clear that further adjustments in the
exchange regime would need to be introduced in due course to correct the
over-valuation of the official exchange rate. Following a meeting in Zurich
between the IMF Managing Director and the Turkish Finance Minister, an IMF
mission visited Turkey between late April and mid-May, and then resumed
talks in Paris in early June following the OECD-sponsored pledging session
there on May 30. Agreement on a new Standby Arrangement has since been
reached with the IMF, and it was approved by the IMF Board on July 19. Under
that Arrangement, the IMF will provide a total of $329 million, $92 million
of which has been released following the Board approval, and three further
tranches of $79 million each in late November 1979 and late March and late
June 1980.
28.       The above-mentioned pledging session was also a successful one.
Subject to an early standby arrangement with the IMF (previous paLra.), various
Governments pledged a total of $661 million special aid, and $245 million in
special export credits, and agreed to consider a further rescheduling of
official bilateral debt and guaranteed export credits, to ease the debt
service burden in the coming years. The OECD Consortium for Turkey met
from July 23 to 25 for the latter purpose. Debt service up to July 1980 on
official bilateral debt and guaranteed export credits totaling some $800
million has been rescheduled, on terms of 7 years, including 3 years grace
on short-term debt and 9 years, including 4 years grace on medium-term debt.
Meanwhile, the agreement with the IMF triggered the signing on July 12 of new
commercial bank loans of $406 million (para. 24), to be followed in August by
an agreement rescheduling the outstanding short-term liabilities owed to the
commercial banks. On June 11, Turkey again revised the multiple exchange rate
system introduced in April, and devalued the TL further to TL 47.1 - US$1,
with a rate of TL 35 = US$1 for imports of crude oil, petroleum products and
fertilizer raw materials, and exports of agricultural products benefiting from



- 10 -
official price supports. Other complementary measures have been and will be
taken in accordance with the Government's program being supported by the
Standby Arrangement.
29.       For 1979, projections of the balance of payments can only be tenta-
tive. However, based on cautiously optimistic assumptions concerning exports,
worker remittances and capital inflows, and taking into account the recent
increases in international oil prices, the realization of a volume of imports
similar to that achieved in 1978 would entail a foreign exchange gap of about
$1.5 billion.
Medium-Term Policies and Prospects
30.       The Fourth Plan was approved by the Turkish Parliament in November
1978. Its important feature is the strong emphasis on the balance of payments
and in particular, on the promotion of exports. The export thrust is one of
the cornerstones of Government's medium-term development strategy, whose
success will be crucial to the restoration and maintenance of Turkey's credit-
worthiness in the medium-term future.
31.       The Government's objective is to increase the volume of merchandise
exports by a factor of almost two and a half between 1978 and 1983. This
implies a real export growth rate averaging around 18 percent per annum during
the Plan period. This is expected to be achieved broadly, in the following
manner. The volume of agricultural exports is expected to grow at an annual
rate of 6 percent, and that of manufactured products by an average annual
rate of over 30 percent starting from about $700 million in 1978. About 40
percent of the latter is expected to come from food and beverages, textiles
and clothing, and leather products; another 40 percent from intermediate goods
such as rubber and plastics products, chemicals, cement, glass and ceramics,
and basic metals; the remaining 20 percent is expected to consist of consumer
durables, capital goods, and other products of the metal-working industries.
32.       Preliminary Bank projections suggest that the share of unprocessed
agricultural and mined products in total exports is likely to be higher than
envisaged in the Plan, and that the overall export target, though ambitious,
is feasible, provided that the present widespread commitment to export growth
continues to be translated into appropriate policies. In addition, the
Government intends to study the effects on export incentives of the existing
system of protection, with a view to making appropriate changes when the
balance of payments situation permits; and it has already begun to bring the
relative support prices of different agricultural commodities more closely
into line with relative world prices. There will also be a drive to increase
invisible exports, particularly earnings from transportation, tourism and
civil engineering contracts abroad.
33.       The other Plan targets include an average annual real GDP growth
rate of 8 percent, which seems overly optimistic, especially in view of the
3-4 percent growth rate achieved in 1978, and the prospect of a similar
performance in 1979. Efforts not to allow unemployment to increase over the
1977 level, is now - for the first time in any Plan - a specific development



- 11 -
objective. Real fixed investment is expected to grow at an average annual
rate of 12 percent (27 percent allocated to industry, 27 percent to energy
and transportation and 12 percent to agriculture). Gross domestic savings
are expected to rise from 16 to 22 percent of GNP, implying a marginal savings
ratio of 35 percent, which seems over-optimistic in view of the experience of
the last two Plan periods, in which the realised marginal savings ratio was
only 12 percent, largely due to poor savings performance in the public sector.
Significantly, in the Fourth Plan, the main contributor to the rapid growth of
savings is expected to be the public sector, whose revenues are expected to
increase in real terms at an average annual rate of 12 percent, compared with
a real growth rate of 9 percent for public consumption.
Possible Outlook for the Future
34.        If the export drive is successful and imports are appropriately
restrained, and assuming significant growth of workers' remittances as a
result of the recent exchange rate changes and interest rates for remittances,
it should be possible, despite the increasing burden of interest charges on
rescheduled debts, to keep the balance of payments current account deficit to
an average of about $1.5 billion dollars per year during the Plan period. To
finance such deficits and amortize the considerable external debt, it will
also be necessary for Turkey to continue its efforts to achieve a much higher
level of medium and long-term borrowing than in the past, both in commitment
and disbursement terms. But this depends on the assessment of Turlkey's
creditworthiness, which in turn hinges on a successful export effort and
careful debt management.
35.       The extensive short-term borrowing of 1975-77 greatly increased
Turkey's external debt, adversely affected its previously rather attractive
maturity structure, and caused a sharp rise in debt service payments. At
the end of 1978, total external indebtedness amounted to approximately $13
billion. Of this, $5.5 billion was medium and long-term debt. About one-
fourth of it was held by international organizations, mainly the Bank ($836
million, plus $842 million committed but undisbursed) and the European Invest-
ment Bank; and about one-half by foreign governments and government agencies,
notably those of the United States, Germany, Canada and the Soviet Union.
The remaining $7.5 billion consisted of short-term liabilities of various
sorts. If the consolidation arrangements finalized with the commercial banks
and creditor countries are fully implemented, about $4.1 billion of short-term
debt will be converted into medium and long-term debt. To summarize, these
consolidations consist of: (a) about $3.0 billion to be rescheduled by
commercial banks (para. 23); (b) guaranteed suppliers credits of about $700
million under the terms of the OECD sponsored agreement of May 1978 (para.
23); (c) another $100 million of short-term credits to be refinanced by CMEA
countries; and (d) refinancing of $350 million of oil credit owed to Iraq.
36.       Turkey's debt management initiatives should help restore a more
attractive maturity structure to the external debt, by transforming a good
portion of the short-term liabilities into medium-term obligations. However,
a relatively high debt service ratio over the medium-term must be anticipated
as a result of the large short-term debts and the rather hard terms available



- 12 -
to Turkey. In 1977, debt service payments, including interest on short-term
debt, amounted to 20.2 percent of exports of goods, non-factor services and
workers' remittances. In 1978, after making allowance for the rescheduled
service payments, this ratio is estimated to have risen to around 25 percent.
In subsequent years it will increase further, since Turkey has to take on
new borrowings to maintain sound economic growth. Taking these factors into
account, the debt service ratio is likely to peak in the early 1980s to a high
level of about 40 percent, before it begins to decline. This, however, should
represent the culmination of the financial consequences of the present crisis
and should be manageable, provided the export drive is sustained. Thus,
although the balance of payments situation will remain tight in the medium-
term future, given sound economic and fiscal policies and careful debt man-
agement which the present Government shows determination to pursue, Turkey
continues to have a substantial capacity to service long-term borrowing, and
remains creditworthy for such financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
37.       Prior to 1970, Bank Group assistance was limited and intermittent.
However, the success of Turkey's 1970 stabilization program, permitted larger
and continuing lending. To date, the Bank/IDA have lent $2,034 million for
57 projects. Agriculture accounts for 29 percent of the funds lent, indus-
try and DFCs for 36 percent, power for 19 percent and urban development,
transportation, education and tourism for the rest. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
June 30, 1979, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
38.       Implementation of private sector projects has been satisfactory.
But in the public sector, political uncertainty, limited coordination among
agencies and staffing problems have resulted in uneven and delayed project
implementation. Therefore, a system of joint project reviews between Turkey
and the Bank was instituted in June 1975. Since up to end 1977, these resulted
in modest improvements, the situation was reviewed with the new Ecevit Govern-
ment in March 1978, and further discussed during my visit in April 1978.
Subsequently, Turkey established a new high-level coordination team for Bank
projects. This team set up procedures for monitoring and achieving realistic
implementation and disbursement targets, and reviewed possible changes in
sector policy covenants which because of Turkish laws and practices con-
strained effective project performance. As of January 31, 1979, disbursements
increased to 72 percent of appraisal estimates against 51 percent in June
1975. A further successful implementation review was held in April. The
encouraging progress and constructive cooperation which has now become mani-
fest allow cautious optimism that performance will gradually improve further,
permitting expansion of the Bank's lending.
39.       Bank lending is now aimed at supporting Turkey's efforts to improve
its: (a) capacity to earn or save foreign exchange, through promotion of
industrial and agro-industrial exports; (b) income distribution, employment



- 13 -
opportunities and living standards, through rural and urban development; (c)
lagging public sector savings, through the encouragement of improved manage-
ment and financing of the investments of key SEEs; and (d) infrastructure
posing bottlenecks for development. The Bank has begun discussions with the
Government on how its lending can best contribute to the new Plan's objectives,
especially export promotion, without being handicapped by past policy and
institutional obstacles. Meanwhile, agriculture and industry remain the key
sectors for lending. In agriculture, projects emphasize livestock,, exports,
and rural development; in industry (including DFCs), the emphasis iLs on
promotion of exports and employment, as also the gradual strengthening of the
SEEs. Projects for urban development, public utilities and transportation
supplement these efforts.
40.       A thirteenth TSKB project was approved by the Executive ])irectors on
July 12, 1979. Other projects likely to be presented this fiscal fear include
an engineering loan to assist the alleviation of air pollution in Ankara,
public sector textiles modernization, a fifth livestock and second fruit and
vegetables projects, besides a second import program loan. Projects being
processed for later consideration include: the first livestock products,
rural development, and fertilizer production projects, besides those for
transport and sewerage development in Istanbul, pilot secondary oil recovery,
employment generation in selected cities, pulp and seed production.
41.       At the end of 1978, the Bank Group's share of Turkey's medium and
long-term external debt (outstanding and disbursed) was 15 percent. Its share
of estimated total external debt (including short-term obligations) was about
7 percent. The gradual conversion of much of the short-term debt into medium
and long-term debt, will cause the Bank's share of medium and long-term debt
to fall sharply to around 10 percent by 1980. Thereafter, assuming the cur-
rently projected increase in Bank lending, the share would increase. The
Bank's share of service payments on medium and long-term debt is expected to
follow a similar path, dropping from 12 percent in 1977 to about 8 percent in
1980, but rising thereafter.
42.       IFC has invested in the production of synthetic yarns, pulp and
paper, glass, aluminum, iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston
rings and cylinder liners, and tourism. It has also invested in TSKB. As of
June 30, 1979, gross IFC commitments totalled $206 million, of which $102
million were still held by IFC. Additional investment opportunities are
being pursued.
PART III - THE TEXTILE AND CLOTHING INDUSTRY
Past Performance
43.       Textiles and clothing has always been the largest manufacturing
industry in Turkey. Value added has grown by a rapid 10 percent annually
until recently. Over 90 percent of output goes to meet domestic demand. In
1976, the organized sector (establishments with 10 or more workers) accounted



- 14 -
for 20 percent of manufacturing investment, 16 percent of production and
value added, 24 percent of employment and 45 percent of exports. Sumerbank,
a SEE, controls 28 large plants producing 15-20 percent of the industry's
output. The balance 80 to 85 percent is in the private sector, of which about
82 percent in cotton textiles. The organized private sector includes 1,400
establishments employing 200,000 workers, 73 percent in some 200 large
plants. In addition, 8,000 establishments in the unorganized private sector
employ another 100,000 persons.
44.       The industry's main raw material--cotton--accounts for two-thirds
of fiber consumption, and is in adequate domestic supply for the foreseeable
future. The wool segment, which uses local and imported merino wool, has
recently been hampered by shortages of imported inputs.   Man-made fiber
production is small, protected, inefficient and expensive. The range and
supply of local fabrics of acceptable price and quality for use in exports is
limited. Local accessories need significant quality upgrading for use in
exported goods. Some textile machinery is produced in Turkey.
45.       Despite its essentially domestic orientation, textiles and clothing
has also become Turkey's largest export industry. Exports have expanded ten-
fold since 1970, to $266 million, or 15 percent of merchandise exports, in
1977. Cotton yarn earned $160 million, grey cloth $20-25 million, and
garments $60 million. Since 1977, however, exports have stagnated due to
continued growth in domestic demand, uncertainty about export opportunities
(para. 51), and pricing problems. The EEC imports about 80 percent of the
total. Turkey's share of EEC imports ranges from 22 percent in cotton yarn
to about 1 percent in cotton fabrics and garments. Turkey's share of Middle
Eastern textile imports is small, mainly because of the concentration hitherto
on yarn exports.
46.       Private sector textile investment increased tenfold in real terms
between 1965 and 1974, particularly in spinning, tripling the capital/labor
ratio and labor productivity in the industry. Subsequent adverse economic
developments, excess capacity in spinning and later, the general scarcity of
foreign exchange, have reduced investments to negligible levels since 1977.
Profitability fell sharply after the early 1970s, because of over-capacity
in spinning and declining prices for yarn exports. It has improved somewhat
since 1976, as the investment pause has allowed some increase in capacity
utilization.
47.       The industry needs rationalization, balancing, increased efficiency,
and capacity expansion in some segments, to continue its leading role and
increase its competitiveness abroad. The over-investment in cotton spinning
has led to unnecessarily low capacity utilization and sectoral imbalance, and
the only additional such investment required is for higher quality (combed and
doubled) finer yarns and sewing thread. Some cotton looms need to be replaced
and, with demand growth, weaving capacity is becoming a bottleneck. Some 25-
30 percent of dyeing, printing and finishing equipment also requires replace-
ment; in printing, perhaps as much as 70 percent. There are regional shortages
of finishing capacity, and a national shortage of drying machine capacity.
The knitting segment must meet the growth of demand and its shift from woven



- 15 -
to knitted fabrics. Woolen spinning has stagnated; it needs modernization,
as does wool weaving. Garments/making up is relatively undeveloped.
Sub-Sector Strategy
48.       Turkey has a comparative advantage in textiles, given its energetic
private sector, proximity to the EEC, Middle Eastern and African markets,
substantial domestic cotton production, and established textile industry.
Wage levels were only 20-40 percent of EEC levels in 1977, offsetting lower
productivity. In garments, where highly productive labor-saving t:echnology
has not yet been developed, Turkey's advantage is even more pronoumced.
49.       A broad view of sub-sector strategy involves the market prospects,
investment requirements, technical assistance needs and the policy and orga-
nizational framework. The Fourth Plan document's strategy for thle industry is
generally sound. In the public sector, it emphasizes modernization, reorga-
nization and specialization. A separate Bank project, under preparation, will
assist Sumerbank. For the private sector, the strategy is to discourage
spinning expansion, promote the production of textile inputs and textile
machinery, and increase exports. The Plan's quantitative targets; are optimistic,
but realistic output growth should permit continued self-sufficietncy as well
as increased exports. It will require both new investment and irmprovements in
efficiency in the private sector. The major objective is to rationalize and
balance this part of the industry, to increase its productivity and encourage
exports as much as market constraints permit.
Future Demand Prospects
50.       Based on past trends, the Fourth Plan projects a 9.5 percent
per annum increase in the value of production. However, the proposed project
is based on the more realistic assumption of 5-6 percent per annum growth,
reflecting current constraints on demand and resources. Over 80 percent of
the increase in demand will be met by the organized private sector. Domestic
demand growth will continue to provide the main opportunity for efficient
expansion of the industry.
51.       The Plan also projects that textile exports can nearly triple
by 1983, and garment exports grow by 24 percent per annum. However, this
fails to reflect recent EEC agreements with over 30 countries, to limit
its textile and clothing imports for five years. Cotton yarn and fabrics
are classified by the EEC as "highly sensitive" products and imports are
restricted to roughly the 1976 level. Almost all Turkey's garment exports are
classified as "sensitive" or "highly sensitive", and more than half have been
restricted. Exports of restricted items will grow between 1.5 and 4 percent
per annum through 1980. It is however assumed that the EEC will relax its
restrictions after its review in 1980, with particular benefit to countries
such as Turkey with which it has preferential relationships. Nevertheless,
Turkey's large share of EEC cotton yarn imports makes it unlikely that its
exports can grow much. On the other hand, fabric exports can grow at 5-6
percent per annum. Exports of the restricted garment items can grow at 6
percent per annum after 1980. Exports of unrestricted items (in which



- 16 -
Turkey's EEC market share is less than 1 percent) are projected to grow at 14
percent per annum throughout the period. Turkey should also be able to find
export outlets elsewhere. The value of garment exports to Middle Eastern and
African markets can grow by 15 percent per annum through 1983, and thus total
garment exports by 13 percent. Total textile and clothing exports are pro-
jected to grow at 8 percent per annum, from an estimated $240 million in 1978
to $345 million in 1983.
Investment Needs and Financing
52.       Investment requirements for 1980-82 for the organized private
sector are estimated at over $800 million, about half in foreign exchange.
This assumes some increase in the productivity of existing equipment and a
catching-up element, given the investment hiatus since 1977. The largest
requirements are in weaving (45 percent), dyeing/printing/finishing (22
percent), and garments/ made-up articles (17 percent). About one fifth is
for modernization.
53.       The local currency portion is expected to be financed by sponsors,
commercial banks and the two project intermediaries (para. 62). The latter
will provide $75 million in foreign exchange from the proposed loans, and
around $15 million from other resources. The remainder is expected to come
from sponsors, commercial banks and supplier credits. The identification of
external financiers is necessarily tentative in Turkey's present economic
situation. However, the proposed project addresses the sub-sector's priority
needs and does not depend on all desirable investments being made.
Technical Assistance Needs
54.       Even the few larger garments firms with modern equipment, have
productivity only some 40 percent of European levels. This is due to short
production runs, unsuitable premises with poor layout, organization and work
methods, and no cost control. Garment firms are inexperienced in export
marketing. Except for a few well-run mills, even textile firms with modern
equipment have a lower productivity than in Europe. While the booming and
protected domestic market provided little incentive for improvement hitherto,
and input shortages were beyond management control, other problems involve
production management and engineering, preventive maintenance, and cost and
quality controls. They arise primarily from inadequate training of super-
visors and middle managers.
55.       The available sources of technical assistance are inadequate.
Formal educational institutions include the textile faculty of Ege University
in Izmir, a school for textile technicians, and a recently established school
for garment operatives. Sumerbank's Textile Training and Research Center has
so far been of limited help to the private sector. TSKB provides practical
advice to its clients. For garments, most training is on-the-job. Foreign
marketing partners usually limit their assistance to meeting buyer specifica-
tions. Equipment suppliers provide important, but limited, services, while
few foreign consultants have been employed because of the lack of market
incentives, high costs and the foreign exchange shortage.



- 17 -
Policy Framework
56.       Until 1978, virtually all segments of the textile industry quali-
fied for Certificates of Encouragement, which provided for accelerated
depreciation, exemption or deferral of customs duties on equipment, conces-
sional interest rates and reduced income tax. The Certificates have recently
been used to help mitigate regional disparities and foster exports. However,
they have not effectively guided investment. Also, by reducing the cost of
capital, they may have favored capital-intensive technology. The incentive
schedule for 1979 substantially limits eligibility for customs duty conces-
sions and accelerated depreciation, which should correct much of tbhe capital-
intensity bias. It also encourages modernization and emphasizes exports.
These changes, in line with macroeconomic policy, will reduce the profit-
ability of most domestically-oriented investment, and could therefore curtail
total sector investment somewhat. However, its composition is expected to
correspond more closely to current priorities.
57.       The industry benefits from the general export incentives described
in Part I. The most effective specific incentive is the export rebate, which
ranges from 5 percent of export value on cotton yarn to 20 percent on garments.
58.       Several related understandings were reached to ensure a consistent
future policy framework. The Government will inform the Bank annually of the
prevailing investment incentives affecting the private textile indlustry. In
light of the information provided by the Government, it and the Bank will
exchange views on the adequacy of the incentives, at the request of either
party. TSKB will estimate semi-annually the impact of the prevailing export
incentives on at least four representative garment products currently exported.
The dialogue on incentives will also include the prevailing export incentives,
mainly as they apply to garments.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
59.       The rationalization and export potential of the private textile in-
dustry was identified in the Bank report entitled "Export-Oriented Industries
and Small-Scale Industries in Turkey" (No. 1359-TU, dated August 17, 1977)
distributed to the Executive Directors. The proposed project was thereafter
identified in depth in November 1977, prepared by TSKB and SYKB with Govern-
ment participation, and appraised in October-November 1978. Negotiations were
held in Washington in July 1979 with a delegation including Mr. 0. Eroguz,
General Manager of TSKB, Mr. 0. Altan, General Manager of SYKB, and Mr. A.
Yoruk of the Embassy in Washington representing the Government.
Project Objectives and Description
60.       Since 1971, the Bank has provided about $30 million for private
textile subprojects accounting for about 20 percent of loans to TSKB, and IFC,



- 18 -
a further $11 million. The proposed FY80 projects for private and public
sector textiles involve a unified and consistent approach to rationalize the
industry for the first time. The proposed project for the private subsector
aims to: (i) rationalize and improve the structural balance of the industry,
to promote viable expansion and value added; (ii) improve productivity and
quality, to reduce costs and improve overall competitiveness; (iii) induce
modernization of equipment; (iv) promote exports and ensure a domestic supply
of inputs for exports of adequate quality; and (v) improve the institutional
and policy framework. This is however the first project of its type in the
Bank and hence its design and detailed arrangements are somewhat unusual.
61.       The proposed project will channel $80 million in foreign exchange
to private sector textile firms, through two direct loans to financial
intermediaries (DFCs): $65 million to TSKB and $15 million to SYKB. From
this total, $75 million will finance high priority subprojects in different
segments of the industry, especially weaving, garments, knitting, and dyeing/
printing/finishing, submitted by December 31, 1982. Another $4.5 million
will finance two technical assistance programs administered by TSKB: (i) $1.2
million for an extension service in industrial engineering and assistance in
export marketing; and (ii) $3.3 million for complementary training, technical
assistance and technology transfer from abroad. The remaining $0.5 million
will finance TSKB and SYKB staff training, and TSKB's textiles research
(para. 66). Project details are provided in the Loans and Project Summary and
Annex III to this Report, and in the report entitled "Turkey - Staff Appraisal
Report on a Proposed Private Sector Textile Project" (Report No. 2525b-TU,
dated July 27, 1979) being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Role of the Financial Intermediaries (DFCs)
62.       Since direct Bank lending and technical assistance to a large number
of firms are impractical, intermediaries are needed. Such intermediaries,
dealing extensively with textile enterprises, are available in Turkey, namely,
TSKB and SYKB. Their lending for subprojects will be integrated wherever
possible with technical assistance. Agreed procedures will ensure that both
DFCs' clients, as well as other firms, benefit from technical assistance. The
objectives, structure and interdependence of the project components will
require TSKB and SYKB to cooperate closely. They therefore agreed to sign a
protocol satisfactory to the Government and the Bank, outlining their coopera-
tion in the textile subsector, as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loans; an understanding was reached on the main elements to be included,
and the DFCs agreed to consult the Government and the Bank before amending the
protocol (TSKB LA 3.11 and 6.01, SYKB LA 3.10 and 6.01). Such consultation
is considered necessary given the first-time nature of this project, to retain
room for flexibility and to learn from experience gained.
63.       TSKB has become a leading authority on textiles through past lending
(16 percent of commitments in 1975-78) and extensive research. Its staff
includes 10 textile specialists. It is capable of undertaking the planning,
appraisal and technical assistance roles proposed for it. It is a sound
financial institution. However, the sizeable recent devaluations have caused
large increases in TSKB's foreign debt when expressed in Turkish lira. This,



- 19 -
in turn, has carried its debt-equity ratio well beyond the 10: 1 maximum agreed
under the recently approved TSKB XIII project. TSKB's shareholders have there-
fore advanced the ongoing capital increase from TL 425 million to TL 1,500
million. TSKB has invited subscription (which under Turkish law requires 25
percent to be paid-in), and intends to complete it by September 15, 1979. IFC
is seeking its Board's approval to participate. Agreement was reached that
the capital increase will be fully paid-in by December 31, 1979 (TSIB LA
4.07); and that the debt-equity ratio will not exceed 10:1 on and after
December 31, 1980 (TSKB LA 4.06). An understanding was also reached that, if
the demand for TSKB's loans is such that the ratio will not be restored by
December 31, 1980, TSKB would take steps, in consultation with the Bank, to
increase its equity base further as needed.
64.       The latest OED report on TSKB is the Project Performance Audit
Report on TSKB IX and X (SecM77-92, dated February 11, 1977). It drew atten-
tion to the negative spread on TSKB's domestic borrowings, due to the interest
rate structure which constrained resource mobilization. This problem was
resolved under TSKB XIII, through agreement that TSKB will review its local
currency lending rate annually with the Bank, and adjust it as permitted by
prevailing legislation, so as to achieve a positive spread on average between
the cost of borrowed local currency funds and local currency lending rates, to
the satisfaction of the Bank.
65.       SYKB, an experienced DFC with new dynamic management,  will receive
its first Bank loan through the proposed project. It has also financed
textiles extensively (25 percent of approvals through 1978). Its clients are
firms smaller than those of TSKB. It is capable of carrying out the planning
and appraisal roles proposed for it. Its institutional and financial situa-
tion is currently satisfactory. SYKB agreed to submit its consolidated
Statement of Policies by December 31, 1979 for Bank approval and promptly
adopt it thereafter (SYKB LA 3.12). Also, in view of the projected growth of
its operations and their changing nature, SYKB agreed to: (i) increase its
present paid-in share capital of TL 100 million by at least TL 300I million by
January 1, 1980 (SYKB LA 4.11(a)); (ii) prevent its debt-equity ratio from
exceeding 7:1 (SYKB LA 4.06); and (iii) allocate 5 percent of annual net
income to build up provisions, hitherto low because of a conservative lending
policy, to 2 percent of portfolio (SYKB LA 4.11(b)).
66.       Despite the DFCs' textile expertise, their staff need training in
the export aspects of textile sub-projects. TSKB has therefore agreed to add
to its general export training program under TSKB XIII, the specific require-
ments for textiles (TSKB LA 3.01(a)(v)). The estimated foreign exchange cost
of $100,000 will be financed from the proposed loan to TSKB. SYKB has agreed
to a similar program (SYKB LA 3.01(a)(ii)). Its estimated foreign exchange
cost of $100,000 will be financed from the loan to SYKB. An understanding
was reached that the DFCs will cooperate closely on training and combine
programs and facilities where feasible. TSKB has also agreed to continue its
textile research (TSKB LA 3.01(a)(iv)), focussing on: (i) productivity; (ii)
export markets; and (iii) the impact of export incentives (para. 58). An
understanding was reached that studies of the manufacture of textile dyes and
textile machinery in Turkey will also be eligible. The estimated foreign



- 20 -
exchange cost of $300,000 will be financed from the proposed loan to TSKB.
Agreement was reached that Bank approval would be obtained for: (i) detailed
outlines of the training programs and an outline of the studies; (ii) technical
assistance agreements with collaborating institutions; and (iii) the qualifica-
tions, experience and terms of reference of technical assistance staff, prior
to disbursements on these programs (TSKB LA 3.09 and SYKB LA 3.08).
Project Financing and Eligibility Criteria
67.       The $75 million equipment component will finance nearly 20 percent
of the private textile industry's projected foreign exchange requirements for
investment, during the expected commitment period (1980-82). It will be
divided 4:1 between TSKB and SYKB, reflecting the relative sizes of their
current and projected overall and textile operations. The DFCs agreed that
any additional textile projects they may finance in 1980-82, will meet the same
eligibility criteria (paras. 69 and 70) (LAs 2.03(a)(iii) and (b)(i) and
Schedule 3, TSKB LA 3.10 and SYKB LA 3.09).
68.       The agreed minimum targets for financing in each segment of the
industry (LAs 3.07(b)) emphasize: (i) garments and knitting, which are
undeveloped and have important urban employment, as well as export, potential;
and (ii) weaving and dyeing/printing/ finishing, which require modernization
and expansion to overcome bottlenecks and imbalances. An unallocated amount
of $13 million will provide flexibility in implementation.
TSKB     SYKB      Total      Share
-------$ Million-------         %
Garments/Making up and Knitting                14.0       3.0      17.0        27
Weaving                                        16.0       4.0      20.0        32
Dyeing/Printing/Finishing                      13.5       2.5      16.0        26
Spinning                                        4.5       1.5       6.0        10
Accessories and other                           2.0       1.0       3.0         5
Total Allocated                                50.0      12.0      62.0       100
Unallocated                                    10.1       2.9      13.0
TOTAL                                    60.1      14.9       75.0
69.       Investment financing and technical assistance will be linked.  The
DFCs agreed to appraise the efficiency of the existing operations of all proj-
ect sponsors. They have also agreed that they will require these sponsors
to achieve reasonable improvements which the DFC identifies and judges feasible
according to a timetable, and to obtain technical assistance if the DFC judges
this necessary (LAs 3.02(a)(vii), TSKB LA 3.10(b) and SYKB LA 3.09(b)). Bor-
rowers may use the technical assistance component for this purpose. Priority
in equipment financing will be given to firms that have used the extension
service (paras. 77-80).
70.       Agreement was reached on the following eligibility criteria for sub-
projects reflecting the needs described in para. 47 (LAs Schedule 3). In



- 21 -
garments and knitting, priority will be given to directly exporting projects,
but any viable project in these undeveloped areas will be eligible. Spinning
projects will only involve: (i) modernization or bottleneck removal in wool;
(ii) quality and product upgrading projects that are export-oriented (as
defined in para. 72); or (iii) export quality inputs to garment exports.
Weaving projects will not just increase capacity, but also involve: (i)
modernization or bottleneck removal; (ii) forward integration of an under-
utilized spinning mill; (iii) export-orientation as defined; or (iv) export
quality fabrics for garment exports. Dyeing/printing/finishing projects are
likely to be associated with weaving projects and will meet analogous criteria.
Projects providing commission finishing facilities, either for knititing or in
regions with a shortage of capacity, will also be eligible. Any project pro-
viding adequate quality accessories to garments/making up will be eligible.
71.       The DFCs have prepared action plans, listed projects meeting the
above criteria and specified the further preparation and promotion effort
needed (mainly in garments and knitting). An understanding was reached that
they will be updated semi-annually. The Bank has reviewed the initial action
plans. They will permit smooth commitment of the equipment component.
72.       In view of the industry's potential for gradual increases in exports
and the importance of exports to Turkey's economic resurgence, the DFCs have
agreed to targets of 80 percent of their garments and knitting approvals, and
30 percent of their total textiles approvals, in foreign exchange in 1980-82
for export-oriented projects (LAs 3.07(a)). Related provisions were made
identical to those under TSKB XIII. Agreement was reached to regard sub-
projects as export-oriented, if it is estimated that at least 40 percent of
project output in the case of expansions or improvements, and 30 percent in
the case of new projects, will be exported by the time they are expected to
reach full capacity (TSKB LA 1.02(1) and SYKB LA 1.02(i)). Agreement was also
reached that the DFCs' subloan agreements for these sub-projects wLll specify
minimum export targets (LAs 3.02(a)(v)).  Understandings were reached that
the DFCs' appraisal reports thereon will demonstrate their bona fide export
potential, using evidence of competitiveness and an adequate marketing stra-
tegy; also that the DFCs will satisfy themselves that sponsors obtain avail-
able incentives in accordance with their export targets.
73.       The DFCs agreed to calculate the ERR, including 'shadow' pricing of
labor where appropriate, for all projects with fixed assets above $2 million
(for TSKB, as under TSKB XIII), and $750,000 (for SYKB); and that the ERR will
normally be at least 15 percent, again as under TSKB XIII (LAs 3.06).
74.       Annex IV provides details of proposed relending terms, free limits,
spreads, disbursements and monitoring arrangements.
Procurement
75.       The DFCs have considerable experience in textile equipment selection
and actively advise their client firms in procurement. Most private textile
firms are also well acquainted with the availability, performance and prices
of equipment. Procurement on the usual DFC basis is therefore generally



- 22 -
efficient and economic. However, for contracts above $2 million an understand-
ing was reached that the DFC's will normally require their sub-borrowers to use
an appropriate form of international tendering which the Bank will review on
an ex-post basis; that the DFCs will monitor such tendering; and that use of
any other procedures will require Bank approval prior to disbursement. Most
projects will have allocations around $2 million, with a maximum of $6 million.
Technical Assistance
76.       The technical assistance component, which is necessarily detailed
and experimental, will help significantly improve the industry's efficiency at
low cost, through assistance in industrial engineering and financial control,
and improve export marketing. It comprises an extension service and a comple-
mentary fund (TSKB LA Schedule 3, B(1) and C).
77.       Extension Service.  This will involve short plant consultancy visits
and in-plant courses. For garments, the service will be more comprehensive
than for textiles, and export marketing assistance will also be provided. In
the first two years, the service is expected to reach about 40 firms, and in
five years up to 160. Most are expected to be DFC clients, although all firms
will be eligible.
78.       TSKB has agreed to administer the service for at least 3 years from
the effectiveness date (TSKB LA 3.01(a)(iii)), which will cover the commitment
period for equipment loans. This is appropriate, given its proven manage-
ment ability, experienced staff, and industry contacts. TSKB has also agreed
to consult SYKB and representatives of the industry, in carrying out these
services (TSKB LA 3.13). An understanding was reached that TSKB will estab-
lish, in consultation with SYKB and the consultants (para. 79), a mechanism,
satisfactory to the Government and the Bank, for the selection of beneficiary
firms. Since the service is outside TSKB's main lending activities, agreement
was reached on a review within 2 years of effectiveness, by the DFCs, the
Government, industry representatives and the Bank, to evaluate progress and
propose successor institutional and financial arrangements satisfactory to the
Government and the Bank (TSKB LA 3.15 and SYKB LA 3.11). An understanding was
reached that TSKB will recommend successor arrangements to the review meeting.
79.       TSKB will select individual consultants (TSKB LA 3.09(a)), to provide
an estimated 128 man-months of services at an average foreign exchange cost
(salary and benefits) of $6,400 per man-month. These consultants will train
fourteen Turkish counterparts. The appointment of: (i) an experienced con-
sultant to assist TSKB in starting up the service; and (ii) consultants in
weaving/knitting, and for industrial engineering assistance to garments/
making-up, will be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed TSKB loan (TSKB
LA 6.01(a)). Agreement was reached that (i) the detailed description of the
program; and (ii) the qualifications, experience and terms of reference of
the consultants, will be approved by the Bank prior to disbursements on this
service (TSKB LA 3.09(b)). An understanding was also reached that TSKB would
secure the Government's and the Bank's approval before changing the program.
80.       TSKB will use $1.2 million from its proposed loan to meet the esti-
mated foreign exchange cost. The local currency cost is mainly counterpart



- 23 -
salaries. TSKB agreed that the service will be free for no more than two
years, but thereafter, increasing fees will be charged with a view to its
being self-supporting after five years (TSKB LA 3.14). To meet the deficit
of the first three years, TSKB will retain a 1 percent per annum spread for 7
years, plus amounts sufficient to service the Bank loan portion (TSKB LA 4.11).
81.       Training, Technical Assistance and Technology Fund.  The extension
service will cover only a portion of the industry's needs in five! years, and
will necessarily be limited by its staff's size and relative lack: of speciali-
zation. The proposed project therefore includes a $3.3 million loan fund for
additional and more specialized assistance in industrial engineering, financial
controls, research and development, pollution control, and export: marketing.
It will finance the foreign exchange costs of training abroad, hiring foreign
consultants, and the purchase of auxiliary equipment.
82.       TSKB agreed to administer the fund (TSKB LA 3.01(a)(ii)).  It
has already identified sufficient demand to use 30 percent of it. It agreed
to: promote the fund according to a plan to be submitted by March 31, 1980
for Bank review (TSKB LA 3.12); give priority to firms aiming to increase the
productivity and efficiency of existing equipment, especially previous users of
the extension service, and those entering, expanding, or upgrading exports;
and use a first-come-first-served criterion to give equal consideration to
SYKB's clients (TSKB LA Schedule 3, B(2)). Appraisal will be silmple and
involve creditworthiness of the firm, eligibility of the expenditure, and
its appropriateness to the firm's objectives.
Environmental Impact
83.       The Government intends to revise its environmental standards for
textile plants shortly. Pending this, several related agreements were
reached. The DFCs will require new sub-projects to meet guidelines
reflected in Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreements. Firms modernizing or expand-
ing dyeing/printing/finishing facilities, the most serious polluters, will be
required to provide data on existing and projected effluent discharges, and
to prepare and carry out plans for reasonable improvements, if in the DFCs'
judgment these are feasible and necessary (LAs 3.02(a)(vi)); any such sub-
project worsening the impact of effluent discharge will not be financed (TSKB
LA Schedule 3 A.(d), SYKB LA Schedule 3, II.(4)). TSKB and SYKE already
provide relevant advice to their clients and have sufficient capability to
administer the agreed measures.
Benefits and Risks
84.       The proposed project will help rationalize the structural balance
and performance of the industry, and aims to institutionalize technical assis-
tance for it. Firms operating about one-third of the subsector"s capacity will
be directly assisted. The project will also help generate about: $25 million of
exports annually, strengthen the export capability of the industry, and
directly create about 5,000 jobs, of which 3,000 will meet the urban poverty
criterion for capital-intensity of investment. It will also limait potential
environmental damage. Individual sub-projects will have an economic rate of
return of at least 15 percent.



- 24 -
85.       This is the first Bank project using private DFCs to help develop
a specific manufacturing sub-sector, and is necessarily experimental. The
extension service is an unusual new activity for TSKB. Its implantation
may be thwarted by industry resistance and recruitment problems despite
provisions for industry participation and attractive salaries. Full use of
the technology fund will require further promotion. The targets for garment
firms may not be achieved, either because of the small industry characteristics
of this segment, or because export market restrictions may be extended. But
all these risks are relatively minimal and well worth taking in the larger
macro-economic perspective.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.       The draft Loan Agreement between TSKB and the Bank, the draft Loan
Agreement between SYKB and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement (TSKB
Loan) between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agree-
ment (SYKB Loan) between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii), of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
87.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Besides, the additional conditions of effectiveness are of particular
interest:
For TSKB:  (i)  the appointment of a consultant to assist TSKB in the start-
up of the extension service, and of the first two resident
consultants (TSKB LA, Section 6.01(a)); and
(ii) the signature of a protocol between TSKB and SYKB for coopera-
tion in the textile sub-sector (TSKB LA, Section 6.01(b)).
For SYKB: The effectiveness of the TSKB Loan Agreement (SYKB LA, Section 6.01).
TSKB could thus fulfill its effectiveness conditions before SYKB and begin
project operations alone. This is reasonable since it will handle about 80 per-
cent of the Bank funds and administer the extension service and technology fund.
88.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
89.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
August 9. 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                       Page  1  of  6
TURM  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGIS
TURKEY
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KH.)                                                 - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)       _
TOTAL            780.6                                                  SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHEIR
AGRICULTURAL     558.4                                MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 280.0       510.0   1110.0            1898.8      867.2      1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     245.0       479.0    630.0            1869.3      578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        27.8        35.6      42.2
URBAN  POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 31.9       38.7      42.6             43.0       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       35.0        46.0      54.0             81.4       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. 1i. AGRICULTURAL LAND     52.0        65.0      76.0            135.2       93.3       116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         41.3        41.7      41.7             26.2       42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                         55.2        54.0      53.9            63.4        53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.5         4.3       4.4              9.9        3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.0         2.5       2.5              0.8        2.5         1.6
URBAN                              5.1 /f      4.9 R    4.2               2.2        4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     44.8        40.6      39.4             19.2       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     16.9        14.4      12.5              9.0       10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.9         2.6       2.3              1.3        2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        65.6      66.6
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)   5.3         8.2      38.0             38.0       20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             91.5       100.0    111.2             113.7      107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRENENTS)                  110.0       112.0     113.0            127.4      105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          78.0        78.0      75.7             92.8       63.0        77.7
OF WHICK ANIMAL AND PULSE         ..        22.0 .LI   24.7            39.3       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     16.0 /h     14.7 L       ..             1.6        8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    49.3        54.4      56.9             68.9       57.2        63.0
INFANT MDRTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          187.0 /f.   153.0 /k    ..              34.5       53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        52.0      68.0             68.3       56.8        67.7
URBAN                               *-        51.0      74.0             74.3       79.0        83.5
RUIIAL                              ..        53.0      64.0             64.4       31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TMTAL                               ..          ..       8.0             94.0       30.9        70.3
URBAN                               ..          ..      13.0             94.0       45.4        90.7
RURAL                               ..          ..       5.0             93.0       16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3000.0 L   2250.0    1830.0             686.5     2706.8      1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3260.0      1880.0    1520.0            339.0     1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            590.0 L1   490.0      460.0            178.0      493.9       275.4
URBAN                            190.0 /j   200.0      210.0             70.0      229.6       129.9
RURAiL                              ..      5890.0    5750.0           1770.0     2947.9       965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        20.0      20.0             15.3       22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.7         5.9        ..               ..        5.2         3.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..               ..        5.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..               ..        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TMTAL                               ..         2.2        ..              0.9-       2.0         0.9
URBAN                              2.0         1.9        ..              0.8        1.5         0.8
RIIRAL                              ..          ..        ..              1.0        2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             29.0        40.0      57.0             57.5       64.1        59.2
UREAN                               ..          ..        ..             99.0       67.8        79.0
RURAL                              2.0        18.0        ..              ..        34.1        12.5



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TAIILU 3A
TOzUT - SOCIAL. INDICATORS DATA SWEET
REFZRENCE GROUPS (ADrUSTED AVERAGES
- MOST IECET EST I2UAT
SAh4        SAHE    ihUT NIGCZ
MOST UCZN       GEOGWOIC    INCm1          INCOMK
1980 /b     1970 lb ESTMSATZ a       IZCION j   CROUP /d   CRoUP L
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED UROLL1M IATIOS
PKINART:     TOTAL                75.0        109.0     104.0           108.0       99.8         97.6
FU*LL                58.0        96.0      96.0             99.5       93.3        87.4
szEONDAR:   TOTAL                 1.0          28.0      30.0            6Z.8       33.8         '7.8
TWAT                  6.0        16.0       18.0            63.6       29.8        42.6
VOCAXIO.L  nrCENT o0  SzCOrAI7) L8.0           14.0      15.0            28.2        12.8        22.7
Pq1?I-TIACKUl RATIO
PRIMARY                           46.0         38.0      34.0            24.9       36.9         25.4
S1o0DAxr                          19.0         28.0      27.0            17.3       22.2         24.9
ADULT LITZACT 8.RAT  (PERCENT)      40.0 s       55.5 a      ..            88.3        71.8        96.3
CONUSI9TTLOU
PASS%NrZZ  CARS PU TIDUSAND
POPUIATIO                          2.0          4.0       9.0            90.4       12.4         32.3
RADIO ECZIVERS PER TWUSAND
POPULATION                        49.0        89.0      107.0           199.0       104.3       20t.9
TV RECEIVES PZ1 TNOUSAIID
POPMATION                           ..          3.0      12.0           132.5       28.1         91.7
NEWSPAPE  (-DAILr zunuL
fITZURIST CICUIATIO PU
rTOUSAhD POV0LATIIO                 51.0         41.0        ..            97.1       45.2         70.9
CINOI A "L ATrNDAXC2 PE  CAPITA  1.1              6.7        ..             6.6        4.6          4.4
TOTAL LAO O0 FORCZ (THOUSANDS)    13000.0 /   14500.0  16400.0 /a
FIAL  (PERCENT)                   40.2        37.2       37.3            32.4       2s.1         117.
AGRICULTURE (PERCNT)              71.7         63.4      52.5 /o         32.8        46.2        38.4
INDUSTlI (PZRCUNT)                10.5        L2.1        ..
PAATICIPATION tATZ (PEENT)
TOTAL                               50.1        44.3       42.8            39.1       33.8         33.7
WALZ                                58.7         56.9      53.2            56.7        48.1        50.8
FUHALE                              41.2         33.4      32.1            29.7        17.3        12.6
eCONGIUC D0PEDENCT UATIO               1.0          1.1       1.2             0.9         1.4         1.4
INCQ1Z DISTRI3IUTION
PERICIT OF P11VATS INCOME
RECEIVED BY
aIGUST 5 PE1RCEN  OF bO1U51LDS   33.0 /h      32.8 /v   28.0             31.9       23.6         20.2
d7i5nsr 20 PCDIT Op WuDs .6I.0 /b             60.6 /v   56.0             59.7       52.3         47.9
L.0ST 20 PhRCENT OP1 .Iglum.s    4.2 /          2.9 LE    3.5             4.0        4.3          3.2
LUZST 40 PtmT OF  _SE.3S    10.6 g              9.4 la   11.5            12.9        13.1        13.7
?OVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ARSOLUTE POVERET ICOMZ
LEVNL (USS PUl CAPITA)
tUlAN  '                             ..                     ..                       91.9          .
RMRAIL                              ..          ..      162.0           194.8       193.1       157.9
ESTmATU ULATIVE PoVyTT IrCO
-EVIL (US$ PU CAPTTA)
AN                                  ..          ..      291.0           295.1      319.8        448.8
RA                                  ..          ..      218.0           309.2      197.7        313.1
ESTINATED POPU16CTI BZIDW POS1?
1NCQIE LEVU (PZCZ25)
DUIAN                               ..          ..       18.0            18.2       19.8        23.2
MDXAL                               ..           ..      25.0            24.2        35.1        54.5
Noc avitlable
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geomtric smans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most popuiated country in each group. Coverage of countries asong the
i.dicacors depends o availability of data and is not oniform.
'b   inlass otherwise aoted. dact for 1960 refer co any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Iecent Estimate, betveen 1973 and 1977.
ic    Zurmps;  /d  Intermdiate Middle Incom  (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper Middle Income (S1136-2500
per capita. 1976);  /f  1955-60;  /   ,965-70;  /h  1963;   /t  1967-68;  1  Rased on samle survey
escticas of 9.700 households; night he andresctimtad;  /k  1967;  /I  1962;  /m  Six years and above;
ir 1965; /o 1977; IV 1968.
May 1Q70



- 27-                                                                              NE 
DEF1INITINS O  SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                     :age   3   of
S=ig   The adjusted grop avrages fo  ech dnic.t-r are popultion-.ighted geowetric ne-n, excluding th. exrm   aue.ftecd, -                                           rec
populad  outry in. ea.h group.  C-vr.ge ofcutie   mn  the indicators depends on availability of data ad  i. not u-llo-.                                          :uic
gropaeags  or Cspital Surpica Jil ExPorters and indicators of access to  ae  and ...cr.ta disposal, housing. Itn   utiuino.                                           r
am.ple   onalo-          gtdgemtiaeans withou  the eatluaton of ..trsms  au.
LAND AREA (th ... nd sq. ho)                                                               population par hospital ha                     n oa,  ihr  and rural -       rcain tutal,
otal - Total earr- v  area ...prii.g loaed area cod inland w-trs.                           urban, and rural) divided by thei r r ..p.aciyvo nnnt  _t-cpital h-ds
Agricu1tura1   Ho Mt recant .stiet. t oagricultural area uaed tamporaclly                    -vilabla in pablic nod pri-r.St genra  an d ap-oticco   <capit.l ecu ye-
or permasnti  for oPa.   asturte., nrkt and kitchen gardens or to                         habilitation centers.  Hospitals are notabliah.... s p--vhatly staffed -
lie falle,                                                                                at Iesta one physician.  fsatblieheenta prnrlding prionfyally vuatcdial
cars are not incladed.  Horel ho-pitela, hosenr,  enluo   oth and son.
GU  PIR CAIA              GNS    lP par capita astieatee at t.roent market prinas.            -al centers not pernenetly staffed hby a Physician Shut by 0 uedtccian
tabulatd hy axs---nvrnion ostiod as forld Beank Atlas 11975-77 basis);                ietant, nurse. midstf.. etc.) which  ffar In-patient  -c -nndatst    n
1960, 1910. god 1977 dare.                                                                provide a  aireitd  -age of eadic.l fa-iiiti.a.
Admi.sions Par hoanital had - Total osabar of  dmiaei..u ~v yr dsh a
ENERCY CONgSn9PrOt PER CAPITA - Aonnal unnaumption of c.merolel searoy                        fron haspit.la divided by tha saber of beds.
(ca   sa  "*ita p.etrol,asm, natural gee and hydro-, nsolear and ga-
therma  electricity) in kilogram   of csal equIvalent per capita,                    HgOUSINlG
Avsrae ais   fh2!uaebo   lereana n.e hgu-eh.ld) - total   -bhes, and vuvol
POPIfLATtON AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A. honeho.ld n lta nf a group of individual, -h- snar  living quartnr-
Tot..l  spuletas.m aid-yeaIr flio         - An of July 1; if not av-ilable.                 aod their   i eat  eal..  A hoarder or lodger nov or mapyo he, in claded cv1
averae of  wo en-yeI9st te; 190. 1970. gnd 1977 date,                                the h-uehold for statistical purp.ose.  Statfoctc-l 4edinitions of hoau-
Urban P.Pa1atian loercant ofttlIfLtna  uthan ta total pp1-hold  -ny.
tine; differentdinita   f  ra   resnyaffectt s-otparbility                              Ave...   onehecr of    o     Pa re  r"m-oal  uhn. d rural                ....rag   .u..
of data "'asg                                                                             baatia.hr of paron  pe  room  is al,uba,adrua.cupI vveroa
Pop.leti.e d...ity                                                                          d-ellings.capocoly    Wellings esclud. ocnprmnr    tructu-o  and
Par  e. he. - igd-year population per ogoare kilamecr (100 lbacsaraa)                      unectupied pert..
of taotl area                                                                           Anne.. to t.electricity (percent of d.ellinga.  - -ocal. oru, and vura1 -
Per sq. he. agriculture loand - Compunad a. aove for agrtoaltura1 land                     C-nvstio...l d..llioge nith electrinity in liv,ing quartors an p.rc-nrgc
only,                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural d..elioga c-p.cti,elv.
Population ae4s utfatare (p.erne.il - Children li-14 year.), worklog-.ge
(i-64 poears). and retired  ~65 peeve and over) as perre..tag.e of mid-              MDDCAT ON1
yerppltion.                                                                      Adjatadl enroilat ratio.
Popultiongrowh rae (prcen) -  otal  andurhs  - Cmpoud aeoal             rimary  oh.ol -tot   a.end female    Totean fmal e..   enro-lne..t of all ag..
growth rat.. of toalsdcurban mi~arppltoefr15-60,                                          at the primary level. as parr..ntagea of respac;ively prinary school-ace
I960-70. and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; nomally incnldsd   children aged4 h-il ysats hut adjusted far
Crude hirth, rara (per thouaxod) - Annual live births par thoosea'd of                      diff greet lengths of primacy edcto;for can-trion cith  ovrslo
aid-year Pop, ato;   e-year  rcitheatir           . average  ending Ia 1960 and           notion enrnllaent may soreed 100 peccant since soea pupila are hbluc 
1970) andfieya  avrgeding in 195 for moatrecant estimate,                                 above th  official ehbonl age.
Crude dogth rate fDar thov#eed) - AXtS,aa  do...ba per tho.Wa    of mid-                  Omnondae scool- ltotl, and femgl, - C--utd as shbove; secondary rdacc-
yea -pna.P.iaim: too,ymar aritlesmetl   v.erae. andiag in 1960 and 1970                   siom  reqirs  a  lestfear Years ad approved prImary                         ?:.rcio;  r-
and fi_a-pse   average ending is 197 5 fnc seat recnat estimate.                          videS.. gora1 von.etional. or teacher training  -ntru-tina. fur pupls
Gro.s.e rop-duction rats - A-veage numaber of daughters a owean will leer                    aeually of 12 to if years of age; correspondence  courses-   tire .00rsly
in her noma  -pr-dunti-  period if ashexains  pre.aot aga-                                excluded.
ap..IfIn fertility races; us-lly fiva-pa  av-cege  ending Ix 1960,                      foeioa  arilat (cemenat of  ..uodacy) - fccaito... I Lntitution..n
1910, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Q"a anc97.dud   te chncln, inustIa ooce  progras  hbich operate iod.pond.tlv
9amil   "dnig - acceptors. annual lth ..enod.) -Annul number of                           orasaatet   fecrondary institutaa
acceptor  of bieth-n--Io devices und.e aan of notianmi family                          PuofI-ttacheraoxti- cemr..ad .....nd-c  - focal std,art.  -nralno 
pl:acokog program.                                                                        Primary  n  aenodeploe   divided hy numbe- of teaher   in the  are
P"nIly plennlna- osra lorcstof rrtsd unan -Prcentag, of                                     spondinelvea
married woman of child-haigae(i-   yas   h.  -o  birth-control                         Adult literacy race  (percnt)r   - Literate  a.ult. (.1ile  to voad and   tit.) n
device, to all macvied ommen In nm g  gtoup.                                              a pernentag. of total adult ppltoaged I5 pears .no ovr.
FOOD AND IOITRITIOfN                                                                     CONSUJTIPTON
nden  f  oodprodutio   ercpita 11970.100) - laden cueber of per                    Passenger o.ar  lpr tho... od p. ulaio.n)   P....enger cars  nocrs   actorcr
cap ~zttaanlpnacioo   ilfn   oseodiotas.                                                 acins Ieee thao eight parno...   osldeabularnen    --ae  and nilitary
Pec cpnta  uorlPof cooris  (pseent o  ragaremat,s   - Camputto fro            -ehinle..
onorg  acuialantof ve  fondsapplsa avilabl  in coa...ry per capIta          ai   ecies(artosn   uul                   n).-.All t7Pon at re-tOccto   001
'er.a.  Available eupe  comprise dometic proda-tion. iport  lse                      hodac   ognrlphl   e   huado pIu_ro    tolue   -.nxovo
rPorts, and ohangas in sto.   e  nplineclad. ailfedses,                                rnirsin coun.tries  and ic pears oh.   r veiaealvo   5bor   s
-asiia   ad 10 tood pr-ce...ig.&  and lonse  ind discrihutia.  ha-                effect:  data for recent  mer   ay not he  -up-bale  -ic    otcunvo
qaicemants wers aetimatd hy FAO base.d ton phy.ilolgical need. ficr our-                abolinhed licensing.
cal uctvicy end health cnidering on-ironmeetel  tamperatars,  hody                     TVrcoiver  'perutho-send population) - TVrtivn   c broadcast  -odneo
c:Ighfts.  ao  n  see,I,,I d..ieri -uin   of  ,paplanianadI aloina 10 Per-                pulnOrraan   onacn    oidtcoonoS   occr   occ.
vent fras at  oashold level,                                                              tries ard in Yearo when registration of TV .,ts -a -t  otfoct.
Peot ntsexl  of 'rutian (aran-s.p,r levi - Protainc.cotact of Peraeauar   circalatiom lPer thouna.nd population) -Sinus tho  -oruge cir-ul-
capita oc suppl  of foo  pa   a.          tsPpl Yof fodIs deind  a                         o   of odily genral interest nwppr,dfndu      etdclpno
above.  Rsquioent  for all onuntri.. established by USDA pr-oidefor                       cation devotedPrimarily tn racoodig geit. es                    !-uona-orea d o
micimos~ alloane  of hi grams of tonal procts1 Per day acd 20 grams                     he "dali   ifi         apers at lat -or tins   wec
af aimal and pulse prte"in. of which 10 gr-am  ahould he animal. preteiD.            Ciem  annual ettandnca par capina per peer -  aed_cc ccc   other of tucneta
Thee   .ad.od. a.re owsr than those of 75 grams ofrtotalprotaio and                       sold duoiog the year. incl.ding admissiocs      drivei          .....a and ochila
23gemofaimal   .-ossi  a. an evere. for cbs wIrd, PrsPe...d hy                            units.
P  a teThr  doeld-pou   turvey
Par osoito  rrnei  su...l  fro   aimaZ     o   ue       rti   upya   od                 t~tfRf
derived. from  amls  and pulse  igam   per day.                                         lotal labor force (tho.....d.). - Etcoooicalpacne  eocs   including arnd
ChlA  es   -)mrai,rt   arth:::..)    Acoal. deaths per thcu-                                fovre  and u..aplayn,d htlt cidighoseto    etnd.v-, ato.  )finn-
und in age grnop '1-4 yeers, to children in this age gr-n.                                ticca  to vartas  oatIa arotcopab
Pemle   ercnt)- fmal  laor  orc  aepercenag   cif -ct1 labor ror-.
R&ALTff                                                                                   ha utae(eret  -ii rtfrv  on fcrmtcg, fvEatro-.  noon   un: sv
Lhf e   p.tt.a-e at hir:heb    . (vece _ -    tacge nuebor ad ysar  of life                 as parra..tage of  -ote  la.bor fr
emaiairg xc hirth:   _ully  fiv-per ovsrages ending in 1960. 1970.                     nLodutrv (terccet) - Labor force In nlniog, cc-rcco    auu  ncgad
and 19 77.                                                                                elantriity, water and gas  spretg    f total  -- fote.
fratmotlt  r ts loa  thousand) - Annual deaths of infante under                   Participation mrst fpercnte) - Iea.   ee.   n   eml       oal   ae   o
one per nf as pernoaueId lIve hirhte.                                               female labor Force as per-cntges of th.ir ... pctti- pclat--c.r.
Au.ese to safe aster (P  acet  fi :p.oultixol    otl. urb:n. and  .rura                      Th... are TILe  adjustred psrricipstinn  vet,  reIneoOa-e
iumber ofrpeupl  (total  urban, and rural) withr .....I. access to                           tr-ature of vh. pupuisolon. end beg  -oe  red.
safe osa tea.pply lincladee treated surface waters or untreated hut                    trono1i  Iopedaccy ratio   - Rtio of ppiair.cd.r II   d 65 and ave.o
uovtmaa   ae  sue  asthat from  procacctd bersbol.e, springe.                    telao  force ta ago -groUp              Afas
ned -Itar Y   il) a  prranago. of their raspctive papuletiana.
Io am urban area apublic fountain xr stadpoet located aot ear.                       :NCOMgE DItRiniUrTON
than dt meters from  a h.ue. may he c.aidared as heine within r.a-                     Fe ... aras of Drivaer Income (both in cash a-d lin   vclocl  r-het 5
naalace    f that h.....  t  rural area  va ..onble accesa woud                  percent, richest 20 p.rcent. pooet20 per ont.adprnt1 p-rn-c
Imply trat the hosaetfo or cabers of the house.hold do not have to                        ofh hounolds.
Ipand a  ipr-p-rtionats part of the day in fetching the family's
cater         ....veepr-t o   ...          rPIPtOTY TARGET GROUiPS
ucoonatexceen  diaraal (versec ofvaOaleit.) - tot.I, urban, and             Zstimated  bheo.a-   -vr ty ioc-m  le-n  ItS3  -a ccu,.toic   ua
.rl -b.ahr of ?.apl. (total, urhb, aod rural) uetvad by cocrata                        Ahbolate  --vrty intone leelvsmr-toov  loe  olo  iuc   voo
dipo...l an ororc.atg.  of the ir r-sp-tri- Ppuplations.  tocret               st riinal    deat  dItpu   soca    otfc   rovoot
iposalma I n" -clude th. collection and dlapceal1;,oith or aittl-t                       affordable.
cv oso  ve of  it yrlisn anduiia  onata Iaton.                                       olti-epvry         Icoolee   cthtac  rv--loo 1-            eas-ou  ov-.
o2luus   e   coiim-PonaindIvided by  -aber of practicing                                   perrayta prinu  inom nfvectr 
-1nr       He nsna pro       eualndvddb uns   fPreto   onaonS Pfu tsvr:coat00  rvo~-e                                                                             Z
rctt--vO ca.In andfeaedaatcres    accasue,anrltc   pr tnverr-rryrvatr-
.I t    d vid  b r ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~-vrroc0  <it   O
'PtilBcc-cOolccuo   0



- 28 -
TU    L0XHC  D 'L09tl 0424 591 .1'                                                                        eZ~o
Aclucl                          4t           'o7'ed
Cnrc4 e ?aSh    e   O
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1970  21 176977 187990.77D Lm7
d. _T109SA4 .CC481  (77. 1111o4g 1976 p.i...3
1.  Gro.. Damitic Product                          423.3        514.1       607.7    659.0      688.0     720.3    740.1      788.0                  7.2       3.8               700.0
2.  G0.1  fro- Tz.,   of r,.d.                       6.9         *.5         -5.4       0.0       0.-7     -6.2    -13.6    -19.6                                                  0.0
3. Go...  D-t1c inco_                              430.4       5?.8.6       602.3    639.0      687.3     726.1    727.3      7 9.4                  5..9       .                103.0
4.  Uopot. (C * NIS)                                21.8         36.9        29.6      35.0      32.0      47.4      53.0       61.4                 5 6       24.3                 S 3
S.  Lpo-t. (G * M9S)                                31.4         50.2        81.2.     82.8      96.7      81.3      77.3      75.6                17.4        7126 S
6.  0o,oour   8d1.nc.                               .9.'       -13.3       -51.6    -47.8    -64.7        _33.9    -24.3      .16.2                                                 7.3
7.  1nv.taat                                        79.5        97.3        145.8     156.7     163.8     146.3    146.3    146.3                  10.9       -3.7                23.8
9. Cgo. .non                                       353.6       430.1        513.3     050.1     5".8      607.9    618?7      S36.9                  7.6       2.7                83.3
9.   o-ti.  S8.i4g.                                 76.8         98.3        88a.    108.9       98.5     10W.2    122.0      132.1                 3          10.3               16.3
10. Notioc.l S.8eg                                   83.2        114.7       104.3     U9.9      107.1     109.5    125.0       134.1                 3          7.8               18.2
3.  ScCT   OUTPUT                                                    5Shr of Tota1 Otvat
1. A9 i r t9aO                                      27.1        22.6         23.4      23.2      22.1      23.3      23.0      22.0                 4.1        3.6
2.  L6t6n;o                                         22.3        25.2         25.0      25.2      25.8      24.3      24.1      25.4                 9.2         3.2
3.  36..                                           s50.1        52.1         51.6      51.5      52.2      52.4      52.2      52.6                  7.9        6.0
C.  PLICIS (1976 - 100_
1.   ".ro1t Prnic.                                  57.4        66.8         96.1    100.0       102.3     85.7      93.4      86.2                  6.8      -6.3
2.  I-port fre*.                                    43.2        60.3        13.1      100.0     106.2      95.6    103.7       111.9               13.4         2.4
3.  T.-.. of It."                                  132.9       2.10.4        83.0     100.0      98.2      89.8      90.4       73.2               .6.2    ~ .3.
4.  CDP D.11f7a,                                    34.4         37.5        85.4     100.0      126.1     186.2    260.?      338.9               20.0        39.8
5. Av-rg             Rat. 8.6. (11.00 . fl3         11.5        14.1         14.6      16.1      18.0       24.3
D.  ?UaLiC FionCe
1. C.G.tal c-o aa,st 1"aw.                          19.9        19.7         20.5      21.4       22.4      21.5
2. C..t,.l G0..arn_t   zp-dlt,,a.                   22.5        22.0         22.8      24.1       27.4      24.1
3.  PF81. S..to. D3. f.cl           N1.8.                         2.1         6.1       8.1        9.0      N.A.
1970-77                                                                                         *       1          U ..
S.  5ELECT6D ENDIC&TOe5                                                                         F.  2oA  F07
IC 1                                                 2.9                                        Chill.  Labor F"r  (Mllio.)                       13.8      15.7      16.2
aporrt el-ticity                                     2.4                                       UG.o1ol.mct -d Un..l.py.  (17. of CL.)             U.O       12.3      13.3
o-r.a. D-lCo .   SoNlo 6At.                         15.4                                        Chlill.. Ma1p7_c (01111aaa)                       13.1      16.7      16.7
71c.gio*l  o-t8. 5.-.4 a..                           7.7                                          of ohbth 17.
Ioo... c.t/CDP                                      21.1
I po,r./2DP                                         11.4                                          Avic.1coz2 67.1                                           66.5      61.8
I.d..t,ryV                                     10.6       11.3      12.6
066..                                          22.3       26.0      25.6
/  Tottal, sy not add op bac.s. of roaadis  .rcvr..
]  Borrowing r.qOIrn   ot .c trl g8o.rfwat, *t6  .c...li. .nt rprl-.u .d 0.  p.l6ic -th-rlti...
3]  Inclod.. oln14g, ..auOaftori, .1.ctrtity,... p       W  -rYk., *slud . ....   aotioa.
1/ t977-80 -&-d4.d ..  -nepr.oatlo  r   itlo1 Y.-..                                                                                                       Q8 8. 1979
May S. 1979



- 29 -
TURKEY - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                  ANNEX I
(Million US Dollars)                                      Page 5 of 6
Actual                           EE,t.         Projected
1970   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977            1978         1979    1980
A. SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1.  Exports of Goods and NFS                     754   1799   2123   2152   2742   2556            3258         3545    4146
2.  Imports of Goods and NFS                  -1096  -2391  -4183  -5219  -5735  -6436            -5l64        -5338   -5633
3.  Resource Balance                           -342   -592  -2060  -3067  -2993  -3880            -1906        -1793   -1487
4.  Interest (net) .X                             47    -59   -102   -124   -217   -500            -678         -744    -920
5.  Profits                                      -33    -35    -71    -36    -83   -116             .58          -89      -94
6.  Workers' Remittances                         273   1183   1426   1312    983    982             975         1090    1180
7.  Net Factor Service Income                    193   1089   1253   1152    683    366             239          257      166
8.  Transfers (net)                               91     18      27      23      15      12           14          25       30
9.  Current Account Balance                     -58    515   -780  -1892  -2295  -3502            -1653        -1511   -1291
10.  Direct Foreign Investment                     58      27     88    153       27      67          40          150      175
11.  Imports with Waiver                           34      50      58     98    136      102          100         102      104
12.  Public M and LT (gross)j/                    271    376    330    386    491        502          650        1639    1775
13.  Amortisation of Public M and LT 12/  -146    -72   -126   -117   -119    -214                  .387         -511    -674
14.  Public M and LT (net)                        125    304    204    269    372        288         263         1128    1101
15.  IDF (net)                                     48    -11      -      243    148       -          180          150    -100
16.  Short Term (net)  J                           18   -224    -80    916   1806   2972             730            -        -
17. Capital not included elsewhere  4/            -39      67     79   -204   -306    -478           540          -19        61
18   Charge in Reserves (- - increase)          -186   -728    431    417    112         551        -200           -       -50
B.  M and LT LOAN COMMITMENTS 5/                      506    547    577    721   1461   1076             1368
Public sector                                     487    491    527    615   1374   1076            1.36$
1. Bank Group                                    40    135    228    158    237         144         358
2   Other Multilateral                          132    100    135        40      55       3          63
j   Governments: Market Economies               154    218    145    178    180         301         375
4n  Governmanta: CentrallyPlanned Economies 114           4      -        3    295      216         343
S. Suppliers                                     47       3      -       45    161      160          53
6.  Financial Institutions                       -       32      19    191    423       251         177
7. Other                                         -       -       -       -       24     -             -
Private Sector                                   19      56      50    106       87     n.a.         n.a.
C.  AVERAGE TERMS OF M and LT LOAN               -
COMMITMENTS /5
1.  Grant Element (%)                             36.4   39.0   29.7   15.4   14.3  14.0             n.a.
2.  Interest        (x)                            3.6    4.7    5.9    7.3    7.2   7.4             n.a.
3.  Maturity        (yrs.)                        18.0   25.6   22.9   13.4   12.6  12.7             n.a.
4.  Grace           (yrs.)                         4.6    7.0    5.6    3.9    3.8   4.6             n.a.
/1  Net of debt relief.
/2  Up to and including 1978 these figures are Government estimates, which are not consistent with Bank DRS data.
/3  Up to and including 1978 mainly convertible Lira Accounts, Acceptance Credits, Commercial and Oil arrears, Bankers'
Credits, Reimbursement Credits, Overdrafts, and Dresdner Bank Scheme deposits.
/4  Mainly errors and omissions up to and including 1978; in 1979 and 1980 represents net private M and LT borrowing.
/5  Public and publicly guaranteed external debt only.
EINA CPIIA
May 8, 1979



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
TURKEY . EXTERNAL DEBT AND CREDITWORIEHINESS
Actual                           I  mt
1970     1973      1975       1976      1977       1978
A.  OUTSTANDING DEBT (Million US Dollars)
1.  Public M and LT (Disbursed) 1/                                          1854      2869     3176       3585       4314      4928
2.  Private M and LT (disbursed) 1                                            42       115       160       253        479        557
3.  Short Term 2/                                                           n.a.      n.a.      1388      3342       6539       7469
4.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                        1896 2a/ 2984 2aW  4724       7180      11332      12954
5.  Undisbureed Public M and LT V                                            840      1101      1608      2427       2787       2972
B.  DEBT SERVICE (Million US Dollars)
l.  Interest on all Debt (net of relief) 3/                                  -47       -59     -124       -217       -500      -678
2.  Amortisation of M and LT Debt (net of relief) 3/                        -146       -72     -117       -119       -214       -387
3.  Total Debt Service Payuents                                             -193      -131     -241       -336       -714     -1065
C.  DEBT BURDEN
1.  Debt Service Ratio 41                                                     18.8       4.4       7.0       9.0       20.2    25.2
2.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt/GDP 4AS/                                 15.0      14.3      13.1      17.5       23.9    24.1
D. TERMS
1.  Interest on all Debt 5/ / Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                 2.5       2.0      2.6        3.0       .4.4     5.2
2.  Total Debt Service 5/ / Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                  10.2       4.4       5.1       4.7        6.3      8.2
E.  EXPOSURE
1.  Bank Group DOD/Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                            7.2       8.5       9.1        7.7       6.1      6.5
2.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                                 3.2      14.9      13.5       13.4       9.1      6.6
F. COMPOSITION OF TOTAL OUTSTANDING DISBURSED DEBT
(Million US Dollars)                                                1977L6                          197iA
1.  Medium & Long-Term Debt                                                  4         42.3                5485           42.4
a. Public M end LT
(i)  Bank Group                                                      693        6.1                 836            6_5
(it)  Other Mu,ltilateral                                             502        4.4                 558
(iii)  Governments                                                    2469       21.8                2907           22.4
(iv)  Suppliers                                                        133       l.Z                 131            1.O
(v)  Financial Inatitutions                                          483        4.3                464             2.6
(vi)  Other                                                             34       0.0                  32            0.2
Total                                                   4314      38.1                4928           38.1
b.  Private M and LT (Total)                                             479        4.2               557             4.3
2.   Short Term
(i)  Convertible Lire Accounts                                      2267       20.0               2860            22.1
(ii)  Suppliers' Credits/Commercial and Oil Arrears                   1858      16.4                1675           12.9
(iii)  Acceptance Credits                                               710       6.3                 862            6.7
civ)  iankers Credits, Reimbursement Credits, Overdrafts              828        7.3                924             7.1
(v)  Dresdner Bank                                                    173       1.5                 363            2.8
(vi)  i1F                                                             409        3.6                 622           4.8
(vii)  Other                                                            294       2.6                 163            1.3
Total                                                   6539      57.7                7469           57.6
3.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                        11332      100.0              12954          lGO.0
/I  3ank DRS data.
/2  Based on Turkish Central Bank estimates.  /2&  Excluding short-term.
/3  Based on Turkish Balance of Payments data.
74  rotal debt service (line B3) divided by exports of goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances.
/4a At market prices.  /5  Net of debt relief.
/76 As of December 31 for respective years.
MEkNA GPIIA
MIay 8, 979



- 31 -                             ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30, 1979)
Loan and
Credit                                                               (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number    Year        Borrower                    Purpose             Bank        IDA   Undisbursed
Eighteen loans and twelve credits fully disbursed                     383.0     160.2
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey       Education                     13.5                 3.9
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Water Supply         37.0                 9.6
324-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Urban Development                2.3      0,7
330-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Livestock II                             16.0      1.1
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey       Ceyhan Aslantas               44.0                23.0
892-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Power District       14.0                 1.2
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway  Railway Project                 46.7                 7.5
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey       Antalya Forestry              40.0                 4.5
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                  Elbistan Power               148.0                66.8
1024-TU   1974   DYB                      Industry                      40.0                 3.0
1078-TU   1975   TSKB                     Industry                      65.0                 2.0
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey       Rural Development             75.0                48.6
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)         Agriculture Credit            54.3                36.6
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)       Newsprint                     70.0                21.0
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey       Livestock III                 21.5                17.7
1194-TU   1976   TEK                      Power Transmission II         56.0                 34.9
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey       Tourism                       26.0                24.1
1379-TU   1977   DYB                      Industry                      70.0                65.2
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                     Industry                      74.0                40.2
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Northern Forestry             86.0                85.0
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Livestock IV                  24.0                24.0
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Erdemir Steel Stage II        95.0                95.0
1627-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Program Loan                 150.0                 73.2
S-13-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Oil Recovery                   2.5                  2.1
Total                                               1635.5 Ai  178.5    b9U.9
of which has been repaid                           166.1        5.1
Total now outstanding                               1469.4      173.7
Amount sold                    3.6
of which has been repaid   3.6                     - 0 -     - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/                   1469.4      173.4
Total undisbursed                                    689.1        1.8    690.9
a/  The following loans were approved June 26, 1979 and signed July 2, 1979:
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey       Ports Rehabilitation          75.0                75.0
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey       Grain Storage                 85.0                85.0
The following loan was approved and signed July 12, 1979:
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                     Industry                      60.0                60.0
b/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
- 32 -                                Page 2 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ Million
Year       Obligor        Type of Business               Loan      Equity      Total
1964       TSKB           DFC                              -        0.92        0.92
1966       SIFAS I        Nylon Yarn                     0.90       0.47        1.37
1967       TSKB II        DFC                              -        0.34        0.34
1969       TSKB III       DFC                              -        0.41        0.41
1969       SIFAS II       Nylon Yarn                     1.50       0.43        1.93
1970       Viking I       Pulp and Paper                 2.50       0.62        3.12
1970       ACS            Glass                         10.00       1.58       11.58
1971       NASAS          Aluminum                       7.00       1.37        8.37
1971       SIFAS III      Nylon Yarn                     0.75         -         0.75
1971       Viking II      Pulp and Paper                   -        0.05        0.05
1972       SIFAS IV       Nylon Yarn                       -        0.52        0.52
1972       TSKB IV        DFC                              -        0.43        0.43
1973       TSKB V         DFC                           10.00         -        10.00
1973       Akdeniz        Tourism                        0.33       0.27        0.60
1974       Borusan        Steel Pipes                    3.60       0.44        4.04
1974       AKSA           Textiles                      10.00         -       10.00
1975       Kartaltepe    Textiles                        1.30         -         1.30
1975       Sasa           Nylon Yarn                    15.00         -        15.00
1975       Aslan          Cement                        10.60         -       10.60
1975       DOKTAS         Steel                          7.50       1.37        8.87
1975       TSKB           DFC                           25.00       1.22       26.22
1976       NASAS          Aluminum                       1.58         -         1.58
1976       TSKB           DFC                           25.00         -        25.00
1976       Asil Celik-   Steel                          12.00       2.20       14.20
1977       Borusan        Steel Pipes                      -        0.08        0.08
1978       DOKTAS         Steel                            -        0.15        0.15
1979       Ege Mosan      Engines for Mopeds             2.15         -         2.15
1979       ISAS           Motor Vehicles &
Accessories                 8.00       1.40        9.4O
1979       Asil Celik    Steel                             -        1.80        1.80
1979       Trakva Cam    Glass                          31.14       4.00      35.14
Total Gross Commitments                    185.85      20.07     205.92
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                100.57       2.99     103.56
Total Commitments now held by IFC           85.28      17.08      102.36
Total Undisbursed                           31.40       5.63       37.03



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project:  US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971.  Effec-
tive Date:  September 29, 1971.  Closing Date:  March 31, 1980.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities. Implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily, with equipment procurement progressing smoothly.
Completion of some training institutions, including the Management Training
Institute, has been delayed by contract disputes; however,90 percent are
now complete or almost complete, and remedial actions are being taken by
Government to accelerate completion of the remaining schools. The Government
is also considering alternative steps to formally establish the Management
Training Institute without need for parliamentary action. Training of teachers
for technician schools, adult training centers and practical trade schools has
made considerable progress.  Sixty-seven local advisory committees for voca-
tional and technical education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972.  Effective Date:  January 4, 1973.  Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs were completed in early 1979. Substantial improvements
to the distribution system are required, however, to enable full utilization
to be made of the new water sources. A tariff increase was implemented in
March 1979, and a reorganization of the management, accounting and financial
systems is under consideration.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Consultants have completed Phase I of the general urbar planning and
urban transport/land use modelling studies as well as studies on wastewater
and bus/traffic engineering and control. Phase II studies to prepare a
shelter project for Bank financing are under discussion with the Government.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The Fattening Subproject is progressing satisfactorily and all funds
have been committed. The Village Livestock Development Subproject, after
resolution of initial difficulties in recruitment of technicians and gaining
farmer confidence, is now progressing rapidly, with 95 percent of the funds
committed. The project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Following delays due to difficult rock conditions and inappropriate
tunnelling methods, two diversion tunnels have been completed, about two years
behind appraisal estimate. The upstream coffer dam has also been completed
and work on the main dam and spillway is progressing satisfactorily. The
construction of the irrigation system is progressing, with the system now
ready to transport irrigation water to about 40,000 ha, one third of the
target. On-farm works are progressing slowly, with about 36 percent of the
land leveling, 25 percent of the surface drainage, and 45 percent of the
feeder roads completed. Tile drainage is being delayed until the main drains
are located. Staffing of the extension service is satisfactory except as
regards consultants.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow
procurement action; however, this is now almost completed. Local costs have
increased substantially over appraisal estimates, and foreign costs by 15
percent. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power market and of the proposed
reorganization of the company's electricity and transport services have been
completed; a study of its gas operations is under review. IETT's tariffs were
raised twice following the countrywide tariff adjustments made in September
1977 and again by about 35 percent in April  1979, additional steps are planned
by the Government to help cover the increased project costs and revitalize the
company's finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Nearly 80 percent of the loan has been
disbursed and procurement actions have been or are in the process of being
completed for use of the remaining loan funds, although project completion
will only be in mid-1980. Despite two tariff increases since the loan was



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
made, the Railways have continued to fall short of the financial targets in
the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975.  However, it is
hoped that further increases in passenger fares and freight tarifEs averaging
70 to 80 percent, which became effective earlier this year, will improve the
Railways' financial situation. While the dieselization program is making
satisfactory progress, other measures to improve operational effiziency, such
as appropriate manpower planning, have not been given sufficient attention.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the pulp and paper mill, the loan
was declared effective. Construction at the new site is underway, and the
project is expected to be completed by mid-1981, two years behind the revised
schedule. Some cases of sub-standard civil works construction have occurred,
but a corrective program and strengthened supervision by SEKA have produced
some improvement. Arrangements have been made to complete the foreign exchange
financing plan, and procurement for the industrial part of the project is
resuming. Local currency payments for the Akdeniz establishment are also now
being made.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Project implementation has been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey
have resulted in some improvement of project coordination. Physical aspects
of project implementation have recently shown encouraging improvement. The
Government's continued provision of adequate local funds, and early arrange-
ments to finalize plans to meet the substantial foreign exchange gap, would
help maintain project momentum in future.- The Government is reviewing pos-
sible actions to overcome these and other remaining implementation problems.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory.



- to) --
ANNEX IT
rage 0 1if 8
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1974. Effective Date: April 24, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The loan is fully committed and project implementation is satis-
factory. Disbursements are nearly complete, although somewhat behind original
appraisal estimates, as a result of difficulties with a few subprojects.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 2, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Corum dam has been
completed and the works to divert run-off from 5 nearby watersheds will
be completed in late 1979. Kumbabo pumping station is ready for testing.
Diversion tunnels for Alaca and Guldercek dams are more than 50 percent
completed. DSI and TOPRAKSU will soon jointly decide on methods of irrigation
to be used in conjunction with Guldercek dam, and the related design of the
conveyance works. The project extension service and credit components are
operating successfully. All three consultants proposed for the extension
service have been employed. Further construction of village centers is being
delayed until a satisfactory plan for using and maintaining existing centers
is drawn up and plans for additional centers are revised.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed because
of foreign exchange shortages. Overall project implementation and the rate of
disbursement should improve in the coming period.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on
and roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable
Export project, are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports
in Turkey and two ports in Italy. Selection of agro-industries sub-loans has
been delayed, but some have recently been approved. The Agricultural Bank
(TCZB) has introduced improved lending procedures for its ongoing supervised
credit program, and this component is being implemented satisfactorily. Terms
of reference for, and recruitment of, consultants to carry out the study of
TCZB's structure and procedures have been finalized after considerable delay.
At the Borrower's request, a cattle-fattening component of the Project, and
US$7.7 million of the original Loan amount of $63 million, allocated for this
purpose, were cancelled on May 5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan
Agreement, $1.04 million for training was cancelled on December 22, 1977,
following approval of UNDP funds for this purpose.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date:  October 15, 1976.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1980.
The project is now proceeding satisfactorily, but due to delays in
civil works and procurement is expected to start production in mid-1980,
eighteen months behind the appraisal schedule.  Erection of machinery and
equipment is expected to begin in early 1979 and trial runs about: one year
later.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 197b. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implamentation is
now satisfactory. Project area offices have been established and are virtually
fully staffed, with all three consultants on post. Preparation of farm devel-
opment plans has been slower than expected; however, substantial numbers of
sub-loan applications have been approved and include a higher proportion than
expected of small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work,
although the pace of overall project implementation is somewhat slower than
expected due to staffing constraints and difficulties in ensuring adequate
inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination. However, measures to
strengthen the Project Unit and its consultants, the Tourism Bank, are
being taken, and the project is still expected to be completed without major
delays.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: March 31,
1981.
The loan has been fully committed. DYB has a new Director General
but still has severe staff constraints, which it has in part overcome by
recruitment of additional junior staff. It hopes improved contract terms
will enable it to fill more senior positions as needed. The possibility of
expanding its role in the SEE system is under active review.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977.  Effective Date:  August 29, 1977.  Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and over two-thirds of the Loan has been
committed. TSKB has essentially reached its agreed targets for allocation of
its resources to projects in less developed regions and small and medium-scale



38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
labor-intensive enterprises. It has so far been unable to raise resources in
international capital markets as expected because of Turkey's economic diffi-
culties, but the interest of several financing sources is anticipated once
conditions permit renewed efforts.
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Project implementation has begun and procurement is underway.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV: US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Recruitment of technical specialists for the project and selection
of consultants for the milk industry study are underway.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date: July 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Procurement action is underway.
Ln. No. 1627 Import Program: US$150.0 million of November 8, 1978.
Effective Date: November 16, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In accordance with Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement a satisfactory
review of Turkey's export policies and performance was made by the Bank in
April and a determination made to continue disbursements after April 30. As
of July 18, disbursements totalled $89 million.
Ln. No. S-13 Bati Raman Engineering: US$2.5 million of November 30, 1978.
Effective Date: February 27, 1979. Closing Date: February 29, 1980.
Consultants have been appointed for the comparative feasibility
study, which is underway.



- 39 -
ANNEX [II
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY - PRIVATE SECTOR TEXTILE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time to prepare project:                      10 months
(b)  Agencies preparing project:                   TSKB and SYKB with Government
participation
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:              May-June 1976
First Bank mission:                           December 1976
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:               October 3, 1978
(e)  Negotiations completed:                       July 12, 1979
(f)  Loans effectiveness (planned):                December 1, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   TSKB and SYKB to allocate their financing of equipment under this project
to priority subsectors agreed between them and the Bank according to
minimum targets (LAs 3.07(b). Projects to be selected according to
agreed eligibility criteria appropriate to each segment of the textile
industry (paras. 69 and 70; LAs 2.03 and Schedule 3, TSKB LA 3.10 and
SYKB LA 3.09).
2.   At least 30 percent of total equipment financing, and 80 percent of
garments/making up and knitting financing, in the textile sector to be
devoted to export-oriented projects (para. 72 and LAs 3.07(a)).
3.   TSKB to launch extension service providing training and consultancy
services (paras. 77-80 and TSKB LA 3.01(a)(iii)). Appointment of con-
sultant to assist with start-up and first two resident consultants
(Conditions of Effectiveness, para. 79 and TSKB LA 6.01(a)).
4.   TSKB to administer loan fund for supplementary training, technLical assis-
tance and technology transfer (paras. 81-82 and TSKB LA 3.01(a)(ii)).
5.   TSKB and SYKB to train their staff in export aspects of textiles, and
TSKB .to continue its textile research studies program (para. 66 and TSKB
LA 3.01(a)(iv) and (v) and SYKB LA 3.01(a)(ii)).



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
6.   TSKB and SYKB to enforce steps to control pollution from textile plants
(para. 83 and LAs 3.02(a)(vi) and Schedule 3, Section 3 A(1) and (2)(d)).
7.   TSKB and SYKB to sign a protocol on cooperation in the textile sector
(Condition of Effectiveness, para. 62 and TSKB LA 6.01(b), TSKB LA 3.11
and SYKB LA 3.10).
8.   SYKB loan effectiveness depends on TSKB loan effectiveness (para. 87 and
SYKB LA 6.01).



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
TURKEY - PRIVATE SECTOR TEXTILE PROJECT
OTHER PROJECT FEATURES
1.        Relending terms.  Equipment subloans will typically be for eight to
ten years with two years of grace. Both DFCs require sub-borrowers to bear
the foreign exchange risk on both interest and principal (TSKB LA 4.08 and
SYKB LA 4.07). They lend both foreign exchange and local currency at the
basic rate for industry set by the government (20 percent since May I., 1979),
but with taxes and fees the effective cost to borrowers is around 26 percent
from TSKB. SYKB has historically charged about 2 percent per annum more to
cover the requirements of its shareholder banks, which provide it wilth large
sums for relending. The Government provides borrowers with interest subsidies
of 6 percent per annum for projects located in less developed regions or
expected to export at least 50 percent of their output. Loans from the
technology fund to be administered by TSKB (paras. 81-82) are expected to
average $100,000, but will be subject to an agreed maximum of $250,000; terms
are expected to average 3 to 5 years including 2 years of grace, but will be
subject to an agreed maximum of 6 years (TSKB LA 3.08).
2.        Free limits.  The agreed free limits will be $4 million for TSKB, as
under TSKB XIII, but $750,000 for SYKB reflecting the smaller expected size of
its subprojects and the fact that it is borrowing for the first time from the
Bank (LAs 2.02(b)). The average commitment is expected to be around $2 mil-
lion, permitting 35-45 firms to be assisted.
3.        Spread.  Agreement will be reached that TSKB and SYKB will retain
a net spread of 2.5 percent per annum on the proposed loans to them, plus--in
the case of TSKB--1 percent per annum to finance the extension service, as
well as the amounts required to service the $1.2 million of the proposed loan
to TSKB used for this component. The balance will be paid to the Government as
guarantee fees (TSKB LA 4.11 and SYKB LA 4.10).
4.        Disbursements.  These will be made against (i) 100 percent of c.i.f.
foreign exchange expenditures for equipment; (ii) foreign exchange expenditures
for technical assistance and for DFC training and research. Disbursements are
expected to be completed during 1984, so the closing date for both loans will
be December 31, 1984 (LAs 2.04).
5.        Monitoring.  Understandings will be reached on arrangemenits for Bank
monitoring of the special features of the proposed project. The DFCs' semi-
annually updated action plans for subproject financing will be submnitted for
Bank review and comment. To ensure sectoral balance in monitoring, they will
translate ex post up to one-third of appraisals of equipment projects below
the free limit selected by the Bank. TSKB will report semi-annually on
the extension service and technology fund, and translate ex post up to
one-third of reports on firms using the extension service and of technology
fund appraisals selected by the Bank.






25-                     _                                                                                  z Se                                                 40500
BULGARIA ,/ac  k                                                                                                  5  a                                                                        U S. S. R.
r     O KIRKLAREL 
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/O
~  f  ~)TCKI'DAK I                                       fKANGALDAKU
) 'S~      orm '                                                                      MJA <Y ANKR \             U dRESUN SRAMBSN                                                A
0~~~~~~~~
3   BALIKESIR V      {       <          o         \                                              ,                                 EZICA OD                                     GRS
0k                                 , A                E5K15EH12 /        A)  N K A R A   ,         \  o                                                        (rBQCO U / )  S AMUSZ                          \40RA
LAJ ~      ~         ~                                  (C                                                                              1    -,-          o      -i  ANKRAERZRU
B A.L I'K) E 5 I R-                                                                                                                ERZIHC ANKA SERI  I                        0CI  L IG  j.
.     ,             YOGA                S I V A                                       BSDIITA VITIT
K TH Y OA  R US S I R                                                                 D(YAR       IR
n ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~                                                                                                        TUN0  0       'k 0- -POICILBUDRE 
KL     ETEST                                                                                    MARIS                                       P N         I
5                    U100DUR5                    150  2- EER'                                                                                             MA R     --                    0 VAN
MUL           30      D-   /
L                              0      K'AYSERI                                  E L    IG       --i            IBITLR
0                                                                                                                   HAKKAR0 GZIATE
lsken                                  ~TURKEY
0                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 MOST DEVELOPED PROVINCES AND MUNICIPALITIES
J                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~OFANKARA AND ISKENDERUN
614                                                                                                               ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEMI DEVELOPED PROVINCES
LEASTDEVELOPED REGIONS
MIedaliter ra  n  e a n              Sea                                                                    S Y R I A                                 IZMIR  T SK B REGIONAL RRANCR OFFICES
T S K B ADMINISTRiAT VE DISTRICTS
CYPRUS'                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETE30S                                                                                                                                 PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES 
I                                        ~~ ~~~~0 PROVINCIAL CAPITALS                                   K
50  ISO  1555  200                                       1   ~/                                               ----INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                   .<
MILES                                                                                    0,0000 00000   0(0.(
0000000000000000(P00-  0450



