Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FILE  COPY
Report No. 2525b-TU
TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ON A PROPOSED
PRIVATE SECTOR TEXTILE PROJECT
July 24, 1979
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
PRIVATE SECTOR TEXTILE PROJECT
Exchange Rate between the Turkish Lira (TL)and US$
(Weighted Average)
1959 - 1970                TL  9.00
1970                       TL 11.30
1971 - 1973                TL 15.00
1974                       TL 13.80
1975                       TL 14.70
1976                       TL 16.00
1977                       TL 18.00
1978                       TL 24.00
1979 April - June          TL 26.50
1979 June -                TL 47.10
ABBREVIATIONS
DYB             Devlet  Yatirim Bankasi (State Investment Bank)
DPF             Dyeing, Printing and Finishing
KfW             Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
EIB             European Investment Bank
LDR             Less Developed Regions
SPO             State Planning Organization
SEE             State Economic Enterprises
SMLI            Small/Medium Scale Labor-Intensive Industries
SYKB            Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi A.O.
TSKB            Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
PRIVATE SECTOR TEXTILE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION ........................................           I
II.   THE ENVIRONMENT ....... .................                       3
A.   The Industrial Sector .....      .....................    3
B.   The Financial Setting ...................                 6
III.   THE TEXTILE SECTOR .....................                        8
A.   Organization, Performance and Strategy .........          8
B.   Potential for Growth and Demand Projections ....         11
Domestic Demand ................................         11
Exports    ........................................      12
C.   Investment Requirements .....     ...................    15
D.   Issues and Problems ............................         16
Efficiency and Need for Modernization    ..........      16
Technical Assistance Requirements . .............        18
E.   Industrial Policy and Organizational Framework .         19
IV. THE PROJECT    ..21
A.   Objectives and Justification         .      .21
B. Design             .... ....22
Financial Intermediaries    .           .22
Equipment Component   .              .24
Research and Training for the Financial
Intermediaries   .             .29
Technical Assistance.                                    30
Environmental Impact    .            .33
C. Benefits and Risks .33
V.   RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED        ..............  34
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Turkey in October, 1978, and was composed of Messrs. Geoffrey Gowen, Abdul
Haji, Jean-Francois Landeau, Cyril Halstead (consultant) and Jack Baranson
(consultant). Mr. G. C. Maniatis headed the sector review/project identifica-
tion mission and contributed to the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
Annex 1     Glossary of Technical Terms
Annex 2     Projected Textile Demand
Annex 3     Garment Export Expansion
Annex 4     Basis for Investment Estimates
Annex 5     Needs for Efficiency Improvement and Modernization
Annex 6      SYKB:  Review of Operations and Financial Outlook
Annex 7      Summary of TSKB and SYKB Action Plans
Annex 8     Training, Technical Assistance and Technology
Annex 9     Project File
MAP OF TURKEY



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Textiles 1/ is the single most important manufacturing industry in
Turkey and its prospects appear bright. It will continue as one of the two or
three major foreign exchange earners because of advantages which include local
fiber resources (cotton), geographic proximity to European and Middle East
markets, an experienced and energetic private sector (which operates about
four-fifths of textile capacity), and significantly lower wage rates than
Europe for skilled and unskilled labor.
1.02      The private sector textile industry must overcome a number of con-
straints in order to reach its full potential, however. In the course of
rapid growth, some sub-sectors such as spinning have generated excess capac-
ity while others such as garment/making-up are still undeveloped. Though
equipment is generally modern reflecting the pace of recent expansion, some
sub-sectors such as dyeing, printing, and finishing need modernization and
replacement of obsolete equipment. Serving a protected domestic market to
which nearly 95% of output is directed, textile firms have let efficiency
remain well below European standards which undermines their comparative
advantages in exports. Substantial improvement in both equipment and labor
and material utilization is possible through technical assistance and train-
ing to upgrade skills, especially at management and supervisory levels, but
practical local sources are not yet available and foreign sources are expen-
sive. Expansion of exports is also dependent upon export incentives which
must be closely monitored to ensure that they continue to offset the import-
substitution bias of Turkey's present industrial policy framework.
1.03      Since 1971 the textiles sector has been assisted by the Bank through
DFC loans extended to DYB ($110 million) and to TSKB ($139 million) of which
about 20% has been used for textiles. An additional $11.3 million has come
from IFC. This is the first loan to approach textiles from a sectoral view-
point, however, and is directed only to the private sector. A complementary
Bank project (support to Sumerbank) now in final preparation will also seek
to modernize the public sector's textile industry. The proposed project will
help relieve the above mentioned constraints on efficient sector performance
and improve the structural balance through 2 loans to two private sector
financial intermediaries, TSKB (a long standing client of the Bank) and the
Industrial Investment and Credit Bank (SYKB, an experienced intermediary to
which a first Bank loan would be extended), providing $75 million for equip-
ment and a US$5 million component for training and technical assistance to the
sector, mostly to be administered by TSKB but including $0.1 million for SYKB
training.
1/   The term "textiles" is used in this chapter and generally throughout this
report to include making up into garments as well as spinning, weaving
and finishing. Departures from this usage are indicated in the text.
Annex 1 provides a glossary of frequently used textile terms.



-2-
1.04      The equipment component of the loans represents about 20% of the
private sector's total foreign exchange needs for fixed investments during its
three year commitment period. The pattern for its allocation has been derived
from criteria of project selection which focus on improving sector balance;
increasing production from existing facilities through improvement in produc-
tivity, modernization/integration and bottleneck removal; improvement of
direct and indirect export capability; and increase of urban employment.
Garments/making-up and dyeing/printing/finishing will receive relatively
more emphasis than the other sectors:  the former because it contributes to
export and urban employment; the latter because of its relatively greater
obsolescence which allows scope for significant modernization and bottleneck
removal. Weaving will receive a large allocation because of its dominant size
and shortage of capacity which constrains sector development as a whole.
1.05      In the light of findings that substantial increases in production
and sector utilization could be achieved in Turkey simply by better technical
and management practice, a main feature of the project is the component for
technical assistance and training. The component will have two principal
elements. One is a pilot program that seeks to establish an extension service
in Turkey to identify and implement practical solutions to technical and
production engineering-related problems and provide training. It will provide
for 128 man-months of foreign expert assistance and the build-up of a trained
cadre of Turkish experts over a five year period, and will directly benefit
about 160 firms. The other element is a Technical Assistance Fund of US$3.3
million for which an estimated 30-40 firms can borrow foreign exchange for
technical assistance from abroad in production, management and marketing to
complement the development of a local capability under the extension service.
US$500,000 have been allocated for studies by, and technical assistance for,
the intermediaries themselves.
1.06      Although trade barriers have hardened in recent years, total textile
exports of $345 million by 1983 are possible--an increase of more than $100
million from present levels. The promotion of exports remains an important
objective, not only for the foreign exchange to be earned, but for the up-
grading in quality and efficiency of supplier industries as well as direct
exporters, and for the expansion in urban employment resulting from the
subsectors (garments/ knitting) with greatest export promise. The project
requires that at least 30% of total sector investment and 80% of garment/
making-up/ knitting investment be directly export-oriented0  It also recog-
nizes the importance of having adequate quality inputs for use in exports by
means of special foreign exchange allocations and the use of subproject
criteria.  The project includes provision for a dialogue on textile sector
investment and export incentives.
1.07      In response to the growing Bank concern to raise the sensitivity
of financial intermediaries to environmental problems, and to prevent Bank
projects from contributing to environmental damage (important in textiles
where certain types of effluent discharge can have highly detrimental impact),
special conditions have been introduced into the proposed project that will



- 3 -
require: (a) for new projects, that sub-borrowers comply with Bank guide-
lines, and (b) for modernization and expansion projects in the dyeing/
printing/finishing subsector, that they limit discharge to present levels and
where necessary develop and carry out plans to deal with serious pollution
problems. This is the first Bank project to require development banks and
their sub-borrowers to take concrete steps to reduce environmental hazards and
will provide operational experience on which to base policies in this area.
II.  THE ENVIRONMENT
A. The Industrial Sector
2.01      Role in the Economy.  The growth of manufacturing industries in
Turkey has been rapid and relatively steady through the first three five-year
plan periods (1962-77). Value added in manufacturing rose from about 15%
of GDP in the early 1960s to about 18% currently, with an annual average
growth rate of about 10%. The manufacturing sector absorbed some 30% of total
fixed investment over the last decade up to 1975 but its share fell to 23% in
1978 largely as a result of its import-dependence and the growing scarcity of
foreign exchange. With rising capital-output ratios, its share of total
employment grew only slowly to reach 11% currently. During the past decade,
the share of consumer goods in industrial output has declined to just under
half, with that of intermediates steady and that of capital goods (but includ-
ing consumer durables) rising from 12% to 16%, reflecting a gradual structural
change.
2.02      The private sector has invested mainly in profitable consumer goods
and durables, and only recently entered intermediate and capital goods pro-
duction. It carried out 57% of industrial investment during the last decade
and now accounts for about 50% of value added in manufacturing.  However,
as a result of the recent economic crisis, private manufacturing investment
stagnated from 1974 to 1977 and fell 11% in real terms in 1978.  The state has
always been involved in basic industries where private capital has hesitated
to enter because of long gestation periods, heavy capital requirements, or
high risks. While the primary purpose of State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) is
production, they have also been charged with social goals, such as the devel-
opment of backward regions, provision of employment and maintenance of price
stability, which have contributed to their generally poor financial perform-
ance. Low salaries, political pressures and otherwise limited autonomy, and
featherbedding have affected the quality of their management and operating
efficiency. Despite liberal legislation, foreign-owned enterprises contri-
bute only 3% of total value added in manufacturing, as a result of a hitherto
unwelcome political and bureaucratic climate.
2.03      Industrial Policy, Achievements and Problems.  Industrialization
has been viewed as instrumental for the achievement of high rates of eco-
nomic growth, structural changes and greater self-sufficiency. In the pur-
suit of these objectives, industrial development policy has stressed import



substitution, the application of advanced technology and a shift of emphasis
from consumer goods to intermediate and investment goods industries. The
main instruments to support this policy have been large investment allocations
with direct planning and control in the public sector, and the stimulation
of private investment by generous incentives and high protection against
imports. These past policies have produced some benefits. Private investment
has been stimulated and public investment raised, with the result that the
growth rates of industrial output and value added have been impressive. There
has been considerable local production of basic commodities using newly intro-
duced technologies and creating substantial labor skills. Dispersal of SEEs
and incentives for private firms to invest in less-developed regions probably
made a contribution to mitigating interregional disparities and slowing the
pace of rural-urban migration, as have a widespread program of industrial
estates and lending by TSKB.
2.04      There are, however, several problem areas.  The immediate ones are
low capacity utilization and the low level and rate of growth of manufactured
exports. SEEs have been deliberately domestically-oriented. The private
sector remained so because export incentives have not been sufficient to out-
weigh the advantages of effective industrial protection which, in a climate
of growing domestic demand, made domestic sales more profitable than exports.
As for longer term problems, although some industries are competitive, the
domestic resource cost of other manufacturing or processing operations is high
by international standards because of poor choices in investment allocations;
small scale operations (often because too many producers were encouraged in
the past); poor project implementation, under-utilization of installed equip-
ment for lack of inputs, foreign exchange or incentive to increase shiftwork-
ing; compulsory use of lower quality domestic inputs, and absence of competi-
tion from imports. Other problem areas arise from Government policy and the
design of incentives, which have over-encouraged capital-intensive activities
and allowed a build up of the unemployment rate to over 13%. In recent years,
the Government has also tried to start too many too large projects simul-
taneously, often without benefit of careful economic analysis.
2.05      Prospects.  Turkey has a considerable natural resource base for
further industrialization, a comparatively low-wage, skilled labor force, and
a diversified, complex and interdependent industrial base, all of which are
presently underutilized as well as a dynamic private sector responsive to
market incentives. It also has an advantageous location near both Western and
Eastern European and Middle Eastern markets. The immediate problems are to
increase the currently low utilization of existing capacity and to achieve a
rapid and sustained growth of manufactured exports (see following section).
Over the longer term, substantial improvements in structure, efficiency and
international competitiveness will be needed in many existing industries, and
particularly in the SEEs, to enable them to use resources effectively and
compete successfully at home, as well as provide some of the thrust for devel-
opment of exports. The present variability of effective protection should
be gradually reduced to mitigate distortion in resource allocation. More
generally, efficiency would be spurred by a general move from reliance on
quantitative restrictions to use of tariffs, accompanied by a gradual lowering



of the level of protection, in line with and as a stimulant to the build up
of Turkey's competitive strength. Finally, a faster rate of job creation in
manufacturing is needed, to prevent a further rise in the already high rate of
unemployment. This could be achieved in part through shifts in project and
technology choices, to better reflect the relative scarcities of capital and
labor in Turkey, by changing the bias of present investment incentives so as
to increase the relative cost of capital and intensify its utilization.
2.06      The Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83) provides for manufacturing pro-
duction to grow by over 11% per annum, contributing a large share of GDP
growth of over 8% per annum. Industry's share of GDP is to rise by 2% to 32%
by 1983. Consumer goods are to grow by 8%, intermediates by 13%, and capital
goods by 15% per annum; as a result, the share of investment goods (including
consumer durables) is to reach 20% by 1983. This growth is to be based on
total investments in manufacturing of TL 432 billion, 27% of the total in the
economy. This will be an increase of 62% in constant prices over the actual
figure in the Third Plan period. Private investment would grow relatively
slowly, from TL 151 billion in the Third Plan period to TL 199 billion in the
Fourth, with a significant decline in its share from 57% to 46%. Public
investment is to be TL 233 billion, a doubling in real terms over Third Plan
levels. The investment allocation is clearly along traditional lines with as
much as 71% for large import substituting projects mainly for the production
of intermediate goods. The Plan targets for manufacturing investment and
output growth appear ambitious, in the light of the availability of both
domestic and external financial resources.
2.07      Manufactured Exports.  The share of manufactures in Turkey's mer-
chandise exports increased from about 23% in the early 1960s to around 35%
at present. The bulk of this gain, however, was achieved through a few
industries: textiles, leather products and processed foods, which even
today account for about 75% of all industrial exports. Nearly all exporting
enterprises are in the private sector. Since 1973, domestic demand has
continued to boom, the profitability of exporting has declined considerably
due to rapid cost increases not offset by adjustments in the foreign exchange
rate, and the world recession dampened demand abroad. As a result of these
factors and the continuing import-substitution strategy, favoring sales to
the highly protected and lucrative domestic market, exports accounted for
only 7% of the gross output of the manufacturing sector in 1977. The Fourth
Plan projects growth of manufactured exports from some $621 million in 1978
to $3.3 billion in 1983 at a rate of some 36% per annum in volume terms.
The larger incremental contributions would come from textiles and clothing
($500 million) and food products ($358 million), with hides and leather and a
variety of intermediate and even some capital goods exports growing rapidly.
Preliminary Bank projections suggest that the share of unprocessed agricul-
tural and mined products in total exports envisaged in the Plan, and that the
overall export target, though ambitious is feasible, provided that the wide-
spread commitment to export growth, evidenced most recently on June 11, 1979
by a devaluation of the TL from TL 26.5 to TL 47.1 = US$1 for most products,
continues to be translated into appropriate policies.



- 6 -
B. The Financial Setting
2.08      The Financial Sector.  Roughly 50% of total private fixed investment
in industry is financed by intermediaries, 40% out of internally generated
funds, about 8% from bond issues, and the remaining 4% through direct foreign
financing. Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (TSKB), a long term client of the
Bank, provided just 6% of the total investment requirements of private manu-
facturers during 1975-77. Another major source of long term industrial credit
is the well-established smaller Industrial Investment and Credit Bank (SYKB).
These two banks are the proposed intermediaries for this loan 1/. The new and
rapidly growing State Industry and Labor Investment Bank (DESIYAB) is designed
to mobilize inter alia the savings of migrant workers for investment in
widely-owned companies mainly in the less developed regions, and the Halk Bank
is a Government-owned financial institution financing small-scale industry,
small tradesmen, and artisans.
2.09      Since 1972, commercial banks have increased medium-term lending to
the private sector, in response to new regulations and incentives whereby
they were required to earmark 10% (and, since 1976, 20%) of their deposits
for loans of 2-5 year maturities. The volume of longer term loans granted
by commercial banks accounts for less than 1% of their total operations.
Between 1975 and 1978, private short-term capital inflows of $2 billion
through convertible lira accounts (CLAs) with Turkish commercial banks were
converted into local currency and lent to local borrowers, mainly for invest-
ment purposes. However, with the ending of the exchange guarantee by the
Central Bank in 1978, the assumption and rescheduling of CLAs debt by the
Government now being finalized, and the need for strict control of new
short-term debt, CLAs are unlikely to play any significant role in future.
2.10      The capital market is presently thin and stagnant since, with the
high inflation prevailing in Turkey, the returns on financial investments do
not match those on real estate and other investments. Share issues by private
corporations t-o outsiders are very limited. The Investment Finance Corpora-
tion was established in 1976 by a group of banks, including TSKB, to partic-
ipate in the equity of industrial firms located in the LDRso By the end of
1978, it had invested TL 353 million in a wide variety of subsectors, includ-
ing TL 205 million as co-financing of projects financed by TSKB.                             4
2.11      The bond market is dominated by Government and State Investment Bank
(DYB) issues, which enjoy a captive market. Bond issues by private corpora-
tions are a relatively recent development, and TSKB has played an important
role by guaranteeing and placing such issues. Government bonds yield 21% net
of tax and are redeemable on demand. Private bond issues reached TL 2.0
billion in 1978--still a relatively small amount, and declining in real terms.
They yield 25% gross of tax.
1/   For discussion of institutional and financial aspects of these two
institutions see paras 4.03-4.05.



- 7 -
2.12      The role of foreign private investments in Turkey's industrial
development has always been limited and foreign direct investments reached
only $40 million in 1978. The official policy is to accept them when they
lead to transfer of new technology and provision of training, contribute to
export earnings, and entail no monopoly or special privilege. In practice the
policy has been restrictive due to political opposition and administrative
delays. However, the Government has now prepared a new, more liberal code for
foreign investment to assist in mobilizing external capital during the Fourth
Plan period.
2.13      Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk.  In February 1978, the
Government increased the legal ceiling on term loans to industry from 14%
to 16% per annum and in May 1979 further to 20%. In addition, borrowers
pay a 25% transactions tax on interest and some small front-end fees. 1/
The effective cost to borrowers (before taking account of interest subsidies
for priority activities) from TSKB is now around 26%. SYKB has historically
charged 2% more to cover requirements of its shareholder banks which provide
it with large sums for relending. Because the inflation rate, as measured by
the wholesale price index, increased from 16% to 24% in 1977 and 51% in 1978,
the real cost to borrowers of short term local currency loans is substantially
negative. Inflation is currently projected to remain at 40% in 1979 and to
decline to 30% in 1980, and 10% by 1982 following the Government's stern
stabilization measures. The situation, however, is different in the case of
medium and long term local currency loans, as the real cost of term loans
should be measured over their maturity when the rate of inflation is expected
to decline. A typical 7-year loan made by TSKB or SYKB at the end of 1979
with a 2-year grace period would have a zero cost in real terms over its
entire life, if the borrower paid nominal financial charges of about 19% per
annum. As a result, the prevailing interest rates result in a real cost to
borrowers of about 7% before interest subsidies.
2.14      Borrowers of foreign exchange bear the exchange risk on both
principal and interest. The Government has stated to the IMF and the Bank
its intention to maintain a realistic exchange rate through adjustments as
needed. These are expected to reflect the difference between domestic and
international inflation. Under these circumstances, the effective cost
(gross of interest subsidies) of foreign currency loans of 26% with the full
exchange risk is substantially positive in real terms. This is appropriate
considering the current scarcity value of foreign capital to the Turkish
economy, and entrepreneurs are willing to pay it. The rate is currently
appropriate for on-lending of the proposed loan by TSKB and SYKB. However,
its possible impact on the international competitiveness of Turkish firms
will be reviewed annually by TSKB, beginning in connection with a study of
export potential being conducted by TSKB under the direction of SPO. 2/
1/   The cost of funds to borrowers from commercial banks was raised further
before May 1979 because they charged a 2% per annum commission on col-
lateral held, and informally requested compensatory deposits of 10-15% of
the amount of the loan (worth another 2-3% per annum).
2/   For details, see TSKB XIII SAR, Project File No. A9, para. 6.07.



III. THE TEXTILE SECTOR
A. Organization, Performance and Strategy
Organization
3.01      Textiles is predominantly in private hands.  In 1976, the organized
textile sector 1/ (including clothing) accounted for 20% of total manufactur-
ing investment, 16% of production and value added, 45% of exports, and 24%
of employment. The public sector comprises 28 large scale enterprises under
Sumerbank's control and accounts for 19% of the investment in the textile
sector, 14% of production, 17% of value added, and 20% of employment. In
1977, there were some 1,400 textile establishments up from 950 in 1970, in the
private organized sector employing close to 200,000 workers. In addition,
there were an estimated 8,000 establishment in the unorganized sector 2/
employing another 100,000 persons. The table below shows the distribution of
establishments and employment by size of firm (measured in terms of workers
employed) in the organized sector. As can be seen, enterprises employing 200
or more workers, representing 13%
TEXTILES AND CLOTHING DISTRIBUTION
OF ESTABLISHMENTS AND EMPLOYMENT 1977
Size of
Establishment                    Number of                   Number of Workers
(No. of workers)               Establishments                      Employed
10-49                               887                           19,367
50-99                               210                           14,878
100-199                              132                           18,530
200+                                 184                          146,157
Total                            1,413                          198,932
1/   Defined as establishments employing 10 or more workers.
2/   Establishments employing less than 10 workers.  Most of these estab-
lishments employ up to 4 workers.



-9-
of the firms in number, account for 73% of employment in the organized sector,
reflecting the concentration of production in relatively large units. In the
organized cotton sector, probably 155,000 are employed in spinning, weaving,
and finishing, and about 25,000 in the garments/making-up and knitting seg-
ments. The wool sector employs around 20,000 workers. The nature and degree
of integration varies widely. The number of large, fully integrated units
which account for an estimated 20-25% of sector employment are increasing. In
*            the unorganized sector, garments and knitting account for roughly 60% of the
employment in this sector. The balance is mostly small weavers with obsolete
equipment. About one-half of the textile enterprises in the organized sector
are located in the Istanbul area.  Marmara, Aegean and the Mediterranean
regions account for the bulk of the industry, including two-thirds of the
public sector textile mills.
3.02       The garments/making-up segment of industry is undeveloped.  Produc-
tion takes place largely in households and in the unorganized sector by units
mostly of less than 4 employees. Large firms in the garment industry are very
few, employment does not exceed 5,000, and their contribution to value added
is only 5%--compared with 40% in developed countries.  However the organized
sector has been fast growing--from only 25 registered establishments in 1963
to about 600 at the present time.  Further rapid growth is expected.  Garment
making is largely concentrated in Istanbul with more than 80% of the organized
sector firms including most of the largest ones.  Ankara and Izmir account for
perhaps an additional 12-14% and the small remaining balance is found mostly
in Bursa and Adana. The Government's policy to decentralize development has
succeeded in promoting new garment firms in the cities of less-industrialized
areas but the available labor is not efficient. The potential for further
decentralization is limited principally to standardized, relatively low
fashion items in which rapid communication and transport access are less
important or where the volume of production can justify services, such as
fashion designing, production engineering, and marketing, on an "in-house"
basis.
Performance
3.03       Investment in the private organized sector, fuelled by generous in-
centives and growing domestic and export markets, rose from TL 240 million in
1965 to TL 2,646 million in 1974 in 1965 prices when it accounted for 42% of
total manufacturing investment. It has since tapered off because of excess
capacity in spinning and the adverse economic developments in the country.
The capital intensity of the textile industry also rose dramatically during
this period. The capital/labor ratio tripled between 1965 and 1975 to TL
67,600, which is above the average for the manufacturing sector as a whole
(TL 65,900), reflecting the heavy investment in modern equipment, particularly
in the spinning sector. Labor productivity more than tripled between 1965 and
1975. The sector was profitable in the early seventies, then slumped because
of over capacity and declining export prices, reaching a low in 1976 when
return on equity of TSKB's portfolio, which is representative of the industry
was only 7.2%. Profitability has since improved--because of foreign exchange



- 10 -
constraints on expansion, leading to better capacity utilization in some sub-
sectors (spinning) and even excess demand in others (weaving). 1/
3.04      The volume of cotton sector output has been growing to meet domestic
demand for cotton and blended fabrics at a steady 6% per year on average (8%-
10% in value) for the past decade. Knitting has been evolving at an even
faster rate, estimated at around 15% per year. Although the consumption of
wool has been relatively stagnant, the wool sector has been growing at 6-7% a
year, using an increasing percentage of man-made fibers to meet the highly
income elastic demand for worsted fabrics. The domestic market accounts for
about 92% of the value of production. Fabrics woven in firms using cotton
system equipment account for about two thirds of the textile fibers consumed;
wool fabric production is about an additional 13% and knitting about 14%. The
consumption of cotton fiber is nearly 65% of the total which is much higher
than the 40% characteristic of Western Europe and U.S. This reflects not only
traditional buying patterns in Turkey but also prices of man-made and wool
fibers that are nearly double that of world-priced cotton because of import
tariffs and protected local industry.
3.05      Until recently the bulk of the sector has been organized to serve
the domestic market. Since 1970, however, the Government has induced a ten-
fold expansion of the value of exports valued at $266 million in 1977. From
1970 to 1976 cotton yarn exports almost quadrupled in volume reaching 78,000
tons, valued at nearly $160 million but have since declined slightly. Cotton
fabrics earn a steady $20-25 million. Garments and made-up articles represent
a fast growing share of exports rising from nearly zero in 1970 to 5,500 tons
or US$60 million in 1977, which is 26% of the sector's export value. About
80% of textile sector exports go to the EEC where Turkey's share of imports
ranges from 22% in spinning to about 1% for fabrics and garments. In 1973,
developed countries bought 93.5% of Turkey's clothing exports. But such
exports represented (in 1975) only 1.5% of total OECD imports of clothing, and
in the U.S. and Scandinavia only 0.1-0.2%. Turkey's share of Middle Eastern
textile markets is small because of competitive local industry and Turkey's
concentration on EEC. The capability to export in a number of garment lines,
has been hampered however by inadequate quality accessories and a limited
range and supply of local fabrics of acceptable price and quality, adminis-
trative difficulties in importing foreign fabrics for re-export, and high
prices for fabrics using non-cotton fibers. Since 1977, exports have
stagnated due to the growing domestic demand, the uncertainty about export
opportunities following the import restraints in foreign markets, and pricing
problems. Nevertheless, there is potential for further expansion of exports
within existing market constraints, which this project will seek to foster
(paras 3.15-3.16).
Sector Strategy
3.06      The 1979-83 Plan document emphasizes the modernization, reorganiza-
tion and specialization of production in the public sector, which is long
1/   Project File B.2 provides additional details on recent financial perform-
ance of textile firms in TSKB's portfolio.



- 11 -
overdue. The Bank's Sumerbank rehabilitation project (in preparation) meets
these very same objectives. Except for hand-woven carpets and some ready-to-
wear clothing, no new textile mills will be established in the public sector.
Investment in spinning both in public as well as the private sector aiming at
expanding further existing capacities will be discouraged, until the sector
approaches full capacity utilization. On the other hand, investment in
intermediate goods and auxiliary materials used as inputs in garments and
knitting in short supply will be encouraged. The local production of textile
equipment (mostly spare parts) will also be promoted. Finally, exports of
finished goods, such as made-up articles, woven and knitted goods, carpets,
will be supported. Though the quantitative targets are high (para 3.08, 3.12)
the Plan's objectives are reasonable and point in the right direction.
3.07      The industry's major objective should be to meet growing domestic
demand and most sector investment is required for this purpose. In addition,
sector performance can be improved through (a) modernization in selected sub-
sectors (especially dyeing, printing and finishing where there is substantial
obsolete equipment) and through (b) increased efficiency of the productive
facilities which can be furthered by the extension of technical assistance and
training. Reduction of sectoral imbalances, most pronounced in spinning, will
occur with market expansion but can be hastened through careful selection of
projects directed to reducing redundant capacity including through forward
integration. Exports should continue to be expanded to the extent that market
constraints will allow, because of the foreign exchange earned, the tonic
effect in communicating export standards of price and quality to the rest of
industry, and because the most promising exporting sector (garments) will
expand urban employment. Development banks can play an important role in
identifying and fostering priority projects in all areas and in helping to
deliver technical assistance. Government's role should be directed primarily
at improvement of the industrial policy framework, particularly for exports,
but it can also help to ensure that the necessary training, technical assis-
tance, and export promotion facilities are available.
B. Potential for Growth and Demand Projections
Domestic Demand
3.08      Domestic demand for textiles (in physical volume) is projected to
increase by about 21% between 1978 and 1983, or at an annual average rate of
about 4%. Per capita fiber consumption will grow to about 9 kg from its
present 8-1/2 kg. Growth rate in value of production would be on the order
of 5-6%, reflecting product upgrading and improvement in quality. This
is less than recently experienced and considerably short of the 9.5% rate in
value forecast by the Fourth Five-Year Plan because of the present economic
slow-down. Since import substitution is long since complete, and export
expansion has market constraints, meeting domestic demand remains the most
important opportunity for expansion of the textile industry. See Annex 2 for
details of projected textile requirements.



- 12 -
3.09      While the need for traditional natural fibers is expected to
continue declining in relative terms, the market share for fabrics produced
by the cotton sector will only decline marginally (from 58% to about 54%),
because of the increasing use of fabrics in which cotton is blended with
synthetic fibers. Wool sector output share would increase because of the
high income elasticity of worsted materials used in suiting which utilize a
high percentage of man-made fibers. Fastest growing sectors will be the
factory production of garments, from both knit and woven fabrics because,
with rising wages and continued urbanization, the organized sector will
continue to erode the enormous share of the clothing market now held by less
efficient home and artisan production.
3.10      It is expected that virtually all the increase in demand will be met
by expansion of the organized private sector to which this project is directed.
Sumberbank, though it accounts for from 14-30% of capacity in individual sec-
tors, is planning mostly to modernize during this project period, which will
only lift its cotton sector fabric production to its full potential capacity
of 250 million m2 by 1983--an increase of 50 million m2 over present levels,
or only about 4% of present total cotton sector fabric production. The small
expansion in Sumerbank garment capacity involving three proposed new plants,
1wll add to present industry output by about 7%.
Exports
Textiles (Excluding garments/making up)
3.11      Turkey has a comparative advantage in textiles, which is one of the
major sectors with a domestic resource cost substantially lower than the
foreign exchange earned or saved at the recent 1/ official exchange rate. It
is based upon energetic entrepreneurship, geographical proximity to Western,
Eastern European and Middle Eastern markets, the local availability of an
important textile raw material--cotton, the fact that the industry is already
established and reasonably modern, and lower wage levels. Turkish wage levels
remain twenty to forty percent of those that prevail in the EEC countries,
and even if allowance is made for lower productivity levels, there still
remains a positive competitive element.
3.12      For purely cotton products which involve a lower level of technology
and skills (particularly in dyeing and finishing) the most efficient mills
would be able to compete without effective subsidy or protection. For the
industry as a whole, there is longer term promise that it can expand exports
economically even in articles using non-cotton fibers as exposure to foreign
markets increases, as productivity and efficiency improves, and as technical
skills to produce needed qualities are upgraded. Exporters will also need
to have adequate access to non-cotton fibers for which improvement in the
I/   The rate of 25.5 = $1.00 which prevailed from March '78 to April '79.



- 13 -
operation of the temporary import scheme is needed.  But the expectations for
textiles embodied in the Fourth Five-Year Plan that exports can be nearly
tripled by 1983 are unrealistic because they merely extrapolate recent (1970-
76) growth rates and fail to reflect the constraints imposed as a result of
restrictions in the principal market areas, especially the EEC. 1/
3.13      Although the EEC quotas are based on industry association agreement
rather than official protocols, they are accepted by Turkish industry as bind-
ing, and quotas for individual countries are monitored closely. Both cotton
yarns and finished cotton fabrics are included in the list of "highly sensi-
tive" textile items and have quotas for 1978 of 76,000 and 3,600 tons, roughly
freezing exports at 1976 levels. The quota regime is to extend for 5 years
with a review after two years--i.e. in 1980. Quota growth rates have not been
established but are estimated at less than 1% per year. It is possible after
1980, if economic conditions have improved or if the impact of the quotas dis-
courage quota fulfillment, that the EEC will ease its restrictions, and coun-
tries of Southern Europe seeking EC status such as Turkey could particularly
benefit. A slight easing has been assumed in our projections for yarn exports,
as well as some upgrading of the product. Their value is therefore projected
to grow from an estimated $160 million in 1978 to nearly $190 million in 1983.
3.14      It is not assured that the Turkish spinning industry will fill the
available quotas since spinning firms are finding it more profitable to
integrate forward into weaving to produce for the growing domestic market.
Forward integration of this type should be encouraged when it increases
efficiency and improves sectoral balance (para 3.07). At the same time
spinners which have excess capacity should be encouraged to make the necessary
effort, including improvements in quality and product standardization, to
export. With regard to fabrics where Turkey is only a marginal supplier with
less than 1% of cotton fabric imports, growth at a higher rate (6% in volume)
than yarns is projected, involving upgrading of product lines which would
raise the estimated 1978 level of exports of $26 million to nearly $40 million
in 1983.
Garments and Other Made-Up Articles
3.15      By contrast with textiles, there have been only modest changes in
production technology for clothing. Labor productivity in developed coun-
tries grew only at 0.9%/year from 1965-1974--less than in any other major
group of industries. Turkey's lower wages, therefore, give it a clearer
advantage over developed country industries than in textiles (provided also
that productivity approaches European levels) except where frequent fashion
and style changes require small units in immediate proximity to markets. Its
overland accessibility to Europe allows transit times of two to three days at
1/   Turkey expects that, by virtue of its being an associate member of the
EEC, it will be partly or totally exempted from market restraints in the
EEC.



- 14 -
only 5-10% of total products costs--an important advantage with respect to
many clothing exporting countries with far lower wages. Though exports of
garments are still only about 5% of total production and knowledge about
export requirements is generally sketchy, a nucleus of exporters has recently
developed in response to Government export incentives and has established
links to European marketing channels. Organized into a Government-sanctioned
exporter's Union which is supported by a small tax on garment exports, the
industry has a potentially effective institution to take actions needed to
upgrade and expand exports such as:  promotion of quality control, intensi-
fication of education and training and the monitoring of export quotas.
Significant additional export expansion would be facilitated by greater
availability and wider selection of fabrics (especially linings) and acces-
sory inputs (zips, buttons, sewing thread, etc.) of satisfactory quality and
price (para. 3.05); the availability of technical assistance in production,
quality control and export marketing (see paras. 3.24-3.25), and an export
policy framework that continues to encourage efficient producers (paras. 3.26-
3.28).
3.16      We estimate that the volume of exports of garments can grow at about
10% per year from 1977 actual levels (equivalent to 13% in value per year
with product upgrading 1/) which reflects the following assumptions regarding
market restrictions.
a.  Exports of items presently restricted by the EEC (which
accounts for about four-fifths of Turkish exports by value
though they are less than 3% of total EEC imports in the
categories concerned) will be able to expand at a rate of
6% after 1980, from presently restricted rates of 1-1/2%-
4%.
b.  Non-restricted items (in which Turkey's share of the EEC
market is 0.7% of the EEC market) can expand at an over-
all rate of 14% from 1977 levels to 1983.
c.  Non-EEC markets (the Middle East, North Africa and non-
EEC European countries where Turkey's present share is
small) can grow at 12% in volume (about 15% in value).
(See Annex 3.)
3.17      On the basis of these projections, by the end of 1983 the Turkish
exports of textiles and garments would reach nearly $345 million, an increase
1/   Faster growth of garment exports could come about if the industry had
unhampered access to import fabrics when local fabrics are unavailable
at a satisfactory price or quality. However, since garments quotas in
importing countries do not discriminate on the basis of fabric origin
and since expansion of fabric exports is constrained, there is at
present no reason for Turkey to encourage large volume use of imported
fabrics even when suitable local fabrics are not available.



- 15 -
of more than $100 million over the estimated 1978 level of $240 million.
Garments would account for nearly two-thirds of yarn exports which has hereto-
fore been the only significant source of export earnings in this sector.  This
is substantially less however than the export targets given in the Fourth Five
Year plan of $745 million for the sector which appears optimistic even if
restrictions in major markets were entirely lifted.
C. Investment Requirements
3.18      Projected investments for the private sector (excluding Sumerbank)
have been developed on the basis of the industry's requirements for moderniza-
tion and for expansion to meet domestic and export demand (Annex 4) through
1983. As Table 1 below shows, they total an estimated $850 million, of which
foreign exchange needs would amount to about $400 million. This represents
most of the sector's requirements since early 1977 when foreign exchange con-
straints brought textile investment programs to a halt. This proposed loan
will provide nearly 20% of projected sector foreign exchange requirements.
The financing of the remaining foreign exchange costs, expected to come mostly
from commercial banks and suppliers credits, is uncertain at the present time.
This project, however, will be financing priority requirements and is not
dependent on such other sources. Self-financing is expected to provide about
40% of total sector requirements, mostly for local costs. As can be seen in
Table 2, about 78% is required for new investment and expansion and only 22%
for replacement and modernization. The cotton sector, given its dominant
position, will require far more than the wool sector. Garments and knitting,
though relatively small, will require investment out of proportion to their
present size.  It is toward meeting a share of these foreign exchange require-
ments of the sector, that the major portion of the proposed loan is directed.
Table 1: Estimated Private Textile Sector Investment Requirements
and Financing, 1980-82
Investment Requirements
Local Costs
Fixed       Working                      Foreign
Sector                Assets      Capital       Total         Exchange       Total
Garments                64          24             88            69             156
Knitting                33            8            41            33              74
Cotton Sector          194          44            238           223             461
Wool Sector             57            7            64            70             134
Accessories              7            2             9             7              16
Total            355           85           440           402             842



- 16 -
Table 2: Estimated Foreign Exchange Requirements in Textiles and
Making-Up Sector for Private Sector Textile Project
(US$ million)
Share of
New                                               Estimated
Investment Replacement                  Share of    Organized
and          and                   Estimated        Sector
Expansion  Modernization    Total   Investment  Value Added
Garments
and Household
Articles             68.5            -            68.5        17%           5
Knitting
Knitting              16.3           -            16.3         -
Finishing             16.7           -            16.7         -
33.0           -            33.0         8%           3
Cotton Sector
Spinning             40.4            -            40.4
Weaving              105.0         31.5          136.5
Finishing            31.3          14.9           46.2       _
176.7        46.4           223.1        56%          82
Wool Sector
Spinning               1.6           -             1.6         -
Weaving               16.1         28.3           44.4
Finishing             11.3         12.8           24.1         -
29.0         41.1           70.1        17%          10
Accessories             7.1           -             7.1         1.8%         1
TOTAL        314.3         87.5          401.8       100%         100%
78%          22%           100%
D. Issues and Problems
Efficiency and Need for Modernization
Garments/Making Up
3.19      The garments/making up sector, has mostly modern equipment; but
its labor productivity is only some 40 percent of European standards, except
for a few firms with technical assistance from a foreign marketing partner.
Partly this is due to short production runs as a result of lack of specializa-
tion. It is also the result of production in unsuitable and cramped premises,



- 17 -
poor plant layout, organization and work methods, and a lack of cost control.
There is scope for considerable improvement in efficiency, primarily in areas
related to industrial engineering and production management.
Textiles (excluding garments/making up)
3.20      The rapid expansion of the private organized sector since 1970 has
been accompanied by increases in productivity of about 14% per year which is
higher than for manufacturing as a whole and reflects a heavy program of in-
vestment in modern equipment that has averaged $200 million/year until 1976
when exchange constraints and Government restriction caused it to fall off.
3.21      Individual sub-sectors differ greatly in structure and degree of
modernity and efficiency.
a.   In cotton spinining utilization was only 68% in 1977 following
a program of rapid expansion and modernization in response to
uncoordinated program of incentives, in which its capacity
doubled from more than 1.3 million to 3.0 million spindles.
It is now the most modern subsector. There is a need for addi-
tional capacity only in combed yarns, doubled yarns and sewing
thread. Relatively few plants require modernization 1/ but
some require balancing investments with upgrading of product
lines. A recent study estimates that productivity in spinning. de-
spite its modernity, ranges from 42% to 64% of European standards.
Two-thirds of this difference could be correctable through better
maintenance, job scheduling, working methods, load assignments,
etc. 2/ Though these changes would not be easy to bring about
because of traditional management resistance to change and the
lack of competitive pressure under domestic market conditions
they could result in increased output estimated at 10-15% with-
out additional investment.
b. Cotton weaving sector capacity is concentrated in about thirty
mills, mostly integrated and is now fully utilized to meet
domestic demand. About half of the capacity is less than 6
years old. 2! New looms are required to replace worn out equip-
ment estimated to be 12-18% of capacity and for expansion of
demand. A productivity study, similar to that for spinning found
that productivity in Turkish mills ranged from only 35% to 57%
of their European counterparts of which about two-thirds would
also be correctible and could eventually result in increased
output without additional investment of the order of 20%.
1/   See Project File No. B.4 for details on estimated age distribution of
equipment in the private organized sector.
2/   See Project File No. B.5 for additional information on productivity dif-
ferences between European and Turkish mills.



- 18 -
c. Dyeing, Printing and Finishing (DPF) requires replacement of
some 25-30% of its equipment and in printing the percentage
could be as high as 70%. Though there is excess capacity for
the subsector as a whole, there are regional shortages of
capacity in certain lines, and a national shortage in drying
machine capacity.
d. The knitting sector has expanded so rapidly that there is
little need for modernization. Additional capacity is needed
for growth in demand and a shift in consumption from woven to
knitted fabrics.  Lack of yarn dyeing capacity is a constraint
on further development of knitting.
e. The wool sector has economic sized spinning plants but whereas
worsted spinning has expanded rapidly in response to demand
for suiting, woolen spinning has stagnated and needs modern-
ization. Capacity utilization in worsted spinning has been
hampered recently by shortages of merino wool which must be
imported. Wool weaving occurs mostly in small firms of uneco-
nomic size, and even the larger firms producers have a rela-
tively high proportion of obsolete equipment so that the whole
subsector requires modernization. Efficiency is well below
European standards.
Technical Assistance Requirements
3.22      While some firms have already reached satisfactory levels of
productivity and consistency of product quality, a much greater number of
enterprises should be involved and the training process speeded up. Indeed,
the problems arise primarily because of the inadequate level of training of
supervisors and middle managers. The several available sources of technical
assistance cannot presently meet all the requirements   Formal educational
institutions serving the sector include the textile faculty of Ege University
in Izmir; a school for textile technicians in Istanbul; and a recently
established school for garment operatives. Sumerbank's Textile Training and
Research Center has so far been of limited help to the private sector. TSKB
provides practical advice to its clients. For garments, where most training
is on-the-job, the best source is the foreign marketing affiliates of some
exporting firms, but this is usually limited to what is needed to meet buyer
specifications. In textiles, where firms are much larger, managers are more
professional, equipment manufacturers provide important but limited services,
while foreign consultants who could provide wide ranging services have been
employed only to a limited extent because of high costs, foreign exchange
shortage, and lack of incentive given market conditions.
3.23      There clearly remains a need for practical training and technical
assistance at the middle management and supervisory level involving technical
and industrial/production engineering fields. 1/ Specifically the training
1/   See Annex 5 which details problems for individual subsectors in these
fields.



- 19 -
should include work methods, production planning, housekeeping, quality con-
trol, preventive maintenance, financial controls and improvement of relations
with top management and workers which is increasingly important in the face
of growing unionization in Turkey. The training and technical assistance
component proposed for this loan will try to remedy this by fostering a local
capability to meet some of the needs and by removing the foreign exchange
constraint to greater use of foreign technical assistance sources. Appro-
priate training programs as well as delivery systems have been devised and
are outlined below (see paras. 4.28-4.31 and Annex 8).
E. Industrial Policy and Organizational Framework
Investment Incentives
3.24      Turkey's strategy of import substitution and basic industry devel-
opment includes high protective tariffs, averaging 50% of c.i.f. imported
value on industry generally, and an elaborate quota system. 1/ Through its
power to grant concessions, the Government has strong leverage on private
industry to follow the Government's priorities as embodied in the five-year
plans. Grant of a Certificate of Encouragement gives a firm (a) accelerated
depreciation; (b) exemption or deferral of customs duties; (c) concessional
interest rates on medium and long-term credit; and (d) reduction in corporate
income taxes in relation to the amount of equity investment involved. During
the ten year period ending in 1976, about a third of total investment was
granted the certificate, but since 1972 the proportion has been significantly
higher. For textile industries, though not for garments and knitting, it is
regarded by investors as an essential condition of investment, and its grant
is required by development banks before making a loan.
3.25      Virtually all textile sectors were eligible for certificates of
encouragement through the end of 1978 and most could qualify for the maximum
exemption on customs duties--even cotton spinning which is acknowledged to be
over-extended. The system allowed considerable latitude to administrators in
selecting and shaping projects according to a variety of criteria that took
account of many often conflicting objectives, and was used in textiles mainly
to mitigate regional disparities in development and to foster exports. The
incentive's main weakness was that by eliminating import duties and providing
concessionary interest rates, it created a capital-intensive bias of the
investment incentive framework. In textiles it tended, therefore, to dis-
criminate against garment manufacturing 2/. The new schedule of incentives
for 1979 substantially reduces the number of subsectors that can qualify for
waiver or deferment of duties on capital equipment; in textiles none are
eligible for complete waiver and only two for deferment. While this will
1/   The adverse effects of the protectionist system, including suggestions
to improve industrial efficiency and competitiveness, were discussed in
paras 2.04-2.05.
2/   Only about 3% of sector projects granted incentives has gone to garments
and knitting.



- 20 -
reduce the profitability of much domestically oriented investment and could
curtail total planned sector investment as a result, it provides a major
corrective to the capital-intensity bias. The new incentives also explicitly
encourage modernization; cotton textiles modernization is one of the two areas
eligible for deferment of import duty payments. Finally the new schedule
places explicit emphasis on exports and in most of the textile subsectors
(knitting, and garments for example) projects are ineligible for any incentive
unless export-oriented. The actual impact of these changes on guiding the
sector's development cannot yet be evaluated but they appear to provide satis-
factory improvement in this important element of the investment framework for
textiles. An understanding was reached with the Government at negotiations on
the annual provision of information on the prevailing incentives, and on a
dialogue with the Bank at the request of either party regarding the adequacy
of the level, and appropriateness of the structure, of the investment incentive
structure for textiles. 1/
Export Policy Framework
3.26      Turkey has a complex set of export policy instruments needed to
try to offset the import substitution bias of its industrial and trade policy
framework which are evolving rapidly at the present time. These include
provisions for temporary import of raw materials (which needs to be stream-
lined) and concessionary interest rates on working capital used in export.
3.27      The most important incentives (other than the exchange rate) in
Turkey, however, are the system of export rebates, and the recently reorga-
nized system of foreign exchange retention. The export rebate regime, first
instituted in 1963, provides cash payments to successful exporters, calculated
as a percentage of the selling price according to a published rebate schedule.
The schedule changes from time to time, and for textiles it currently ranges
from 5% for cotton yarns to 20% for garments. Large volume exporters (TL 3.5
million or more in a given year) are entitled to an additional 5 percentage
points. On the basis of conditions at the time of appraisal there appeared
to be adequate incentive for expansion of exports for efficient producers
of garments, the subsector where export potential is the greatest, but the
advantage was rapidly eroded thereafter by the high level of inflation. The
Government recently revised its exchange retention scheme to provide a more
liberal and more automatic basis for exporters to retain exchange earnings.
This scheme and the large devaluation in June 1979 should have a substantial
impact in inducing industrial exports and appears to have provided the neces-
sary incentive to enable efficient textile and garment exporters to export.
The dialogue with Government (para 3.25) will however also include discussion
of the adequacy of the export policy framework mainly as it applies to gar-
ments. TSKB, as part of its regular reporting requirements, will prepare on
a semi-annual basis for at least four garment products an evaluation of its
impact on the export sector for use by supervision missions in the dialogue.2/
1/   See Project File B.8 for additional details on operation and impact
of the investment incentive framework.
2/   See Project File B.8 for additional details on the operation and impact
of the export rebate and other elements of the export policy framework.



- 21 -
3.28      There is a substantial institutional framework to support and
facilitate exports generally including special departments in the Ministries,
an export promotion center, Chambers of Commerce and export unions of private
producers. This framework has not been effective in the past because of lack
of coordination between the Government and the private sector, ineffective
administration, and lack of awareness of the requirements of export. The
Government is now taking measures to strengthen its export center, streamline
procedures within Ministries, and improve coordination within Government and
with the private sector. With respect to the textile sector there is an
increasing dialogue between the textile industry and the Government on indus-
*            try problems.  Whereas only spinning export unions had been established the
Government has now officially recognized the Garment Exporters' Union which
can be a focus of export effort in this subsector (para. 3.15).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Justification
4.01      The proposed project's major objectives are:
a. To improve the structural balance of the sector and to
promote expansion and valued added, especially in less
developed subsectors.
b. To improve productivity, by upgrading technological
proficiency, improving quality, and standardizing
production in order to reduce costs and improve com-
petitiveness in export markets.
c. To induce modernization as required.
d. To promote directly exporting projects, especially in
the most promising subsectors (garments/making up and
knitting) and to support projects that are capable of
supplying inputs for exports of adequate and con-
sistent quality.
e. To improve the policy and institutional framework as
it relates specifically to textiles.
These objectives reinforce each other. Improvement in sectoral efficiency
will improve the capability to export. Increased exposure to the require-
ments of exports will force the industry to upgrade quality and reduce costs.
Technical assistance and training will help increase utilization of equip-
ment, reduce costs of inputs, and develop a capability in Turkey to continue
to provide such assistance. Up to 160 firms will benefit directly as a
result of this assistance. The project will help channel sector production



- 22 -
capability to exports which will earn about US$25 million in foreign exchange.
About 5,000 jobs would be directly created of which 3,000 would meet the
Bank's urban poverty capital intensity criterion. The project will begin to
sensitize financial intermediaries and their clients to the environmental
impact of their operations and will include concrete steps to limit further
environmental damage.
B. Design
4.02      The proposed components of the project to meet these objectives are
summarized as follows:
($ Million)
(a)  an equipment component to finance high priority
sub-projects;                                            75.0
(b)  a training and technical assistance component
consisting of:                                            4.5
(i) a pilot program to develop a local
capability to provide a training and
technical assistance extension service
to technical and middle management and
export marketing staff;                        1.2
(ii) a fund to enable firms to borrow foreign
exchange for additional and more special-
ized training, technical assistance and
technology transfer                           3.3
(c) promotion, training and the financing of special
studies by the financial intermediaries involved.         0.5
80.0
1.  Financial Intermediaries
4.03      The project will rely primarily on two private financial intermedia-
ries for financing and administering the above components. TSKB, for which a
thirteenth loan was recently approved, is well known to the Bank. 1/ SYKB is
an experienced intermediary with new dynamic management where lending is
1/   See TSKB XIII Staff Appraisal Report, Project File No. A9.



- 23 -
envisaged for the first time. The Bank financing will be divided between
TSKB and SYKB on approximately a 4:1 basis which is appropriate to the rela-
tive size of their overall and textile operations as well as the operations
projected under their action plans. 1/ The two banks will be lending to
different groups of firms with SYKB's expected on the average to be substan-
tially smaller than those for TSKB. The objectives and structure of the
individual components and their interdependence, reflecting that this is a
sector loan and not a traditional DFC operation, will require the intermedia-
ries to cooperate closely regarding their activities in the textile sector.
They have agreed to sign a protocol to this effect satisfactory to both the
Government and the Bank; an understanding was reached on the main elements to
be included. Signature of the protocol is a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loans; and the DFCs have agreed to consult with the Bank and the
Government before making any changes in it.
TSKB
4.04      TSKB has been deeply involved with the textile sector, not only in
its lending operations but through broad sectoral research which has estab-
lished it as a leading authority on the sector. Its appraisal and engineering
staff includes about 10 specialized in textiles who are among the best in the
field in Turkey. It is well capable to undertake the specialized planning,
appraisal and technical assistance roles which are assigned to it under this
project (paras 4.33, 4.36, 4.56, 4.61).  No general measures of an institu-
tional nature are required under this loan in addition to those recently
agreed in connection with the 13th TSKB loan. However, certain financial
measures are required as a result of recent economic developments. The
devaluations in 1978 and 1979 have caused large increases in TSKB's foreign
debt when expressed in Turkish lira, which have carried its debt-equity ratio
well beyond the 10:1 maximum agreed under TSKB XIII. TSKB has therefore
decided to advance its ongoing capital increase from TL 425 million to TL
1,500 million. An understanding was reached that full subscription (which
under Turkish law requires 25 percent to be paid in), which has already been
invited, will be completed by September 15, 1979. IFC is seeking its Board's
approval to participate. Agreement was further reached that the capital
increase will be fully paid-in by December 31, 1979; and that the debt-equity
ratio will be brought within the 10:1 limit by December 31, 1980 and remain
within it thereafter. An understanding was reached that, if the demand for
TSKB's loans is such that the ratio will not be restored by December 31,
1980, TSKB will take steps in consultation with the Bank to increase its
equity base--preferably by increasing its share capital--as needed. Another
issue was raised in the latest OED report on TSKB, the PPAR on TSKB IX and X
(SecM77-92, dated February 11, 1977). This drew particular attention to the
negative spread on TSKB's domestic borrowings, as a result of the prevailing
interest rate structure, which constrained TSKB's domestic resource utiliza-
tion. This problem has been resolved through agreement under TSKB XIII that
1/   See Project File B.9 for a comparison of indices of size on which this
allocation ratio is based.



- 24 -
TSKB will review its local currency lending rate annually with the Bank, and
adjust it as permitted by (a recent change in) prevailing legislation, so as
to achieve a positive spread on average between the cost of borrowed local
currency funds and local currency lending rates, to the satisfaction of the
Bank. For a review of TSKB's operations and financial situation see also
SAR for TSKB 13th Loan, Project File A.9.
SYKB
4.05      SYKB has financed extensively in the textile sector (25% of total
approvals through 1978) and with the recent addition of an experienced textile
engineer to its technical staff has the capability for carrying out the plan-
ning and appraisal roles assigned to it (see paras 4.08, 4.11). A thorough
financial and institutional appraisal was conducted for the purpose of this
project, summarized in Annex 6, which concludes that SYKB would be a satisfac-
tory and creditworthy borrower. It has agreed to submit a consolidated
statement of policies for Bank approval by December 31, 1979 and adopt it
promptly thereafter. Several financial measures will be required in view of
the projected growth of its operations, however, and will need to be incor-
porated in the loan agreement: (a) that its present paid-in share capital be
increased no later than January 1, 1980, by at least TL 300 million; (b) its
debt/equity ratio be maintained at a level no greater than 7:1, based on a
revised definition of the debt/equity ratio defined to include borrowings from
its shareholders in long term debt (Annex 6, paras 8-10); and (c) that it
allocate 5% of annual net income to build up provisions, hitherto unnecessary
because of a very conservative lending policy, to 2% of loans and equity
portfolio (see Annex 6, para 9).
2. Equipment Component
Sectoral Allocation of Loans
4.06      The equipment component of $75 million will finance about 20% of the
projected total sector requirements (para. 3.18) during its 3-year commitment
period lasting up to December 31, 1982, and most of the textile projects that
the intermediaries expect to finance during this time span. The allocation of
this component will emphasize priority sub-sectors as explained below (para.
4.11). Additionally, selection criteria have been developed to identify
projects within each sub-sector which merit highest priority (paras. 4.11 -
4.16). These criteria are described in connection with each sub-sectoral
allocation and both criteria and allocations are spelled out in the Loan
Agreements.
4.07      Since it is possible that the intermediaries may wish to undertake
a small amount of textile financing outside of the loans, to ensure that the
objectives of the loan are not frustrated, the intermediaries have agreed to
make all commitments in textiles during the period 1980-82 consistent with the
criteria developed for projects financed out of the loans. This is reflected
in the Loan Agreements.
4.08      The intermediaries have developed action plans which feature a set
of sub-projects proposed for consideration under the Loans (Annex 7). These



- 25 -
projects have been developed from the sector knowledge of technical personnel,
from a review of each intermediary's file of applications for financial assis-
tance, and on promotional visits to factories to identify modernization/
integration requirements. Though some sub-projects listed in the action plans
are only in the formative stage, each project is briefly described, its invest-
ment requirements are estimated, and the rationale for its selection is given
according to agreed upon criteria. The plans also describe work needed to
develop individual sub-projects further, including studies where the strongest
promotional effort is required -- mainly garments and knitting. The Bank has
reviewed the action plans and promotional programs and considers that they
will provide an adequate pipeline of projects to ensure smooth commitment of
the equipment components of the loans. The intermediaries have agreed in
supplemental letters to update the project pipeline in their action plans on a
semi-annual basis for Bank review with a brief description of changes of the
status of projects in the pipeline of each sub-sector, a summary description
of new projects and the reasons for their inclusion, and a brief description
of the promotional efforts planned.
4.09      Following are the proposed allocations targeted for each sub-sector.
The proposed allocation pattern reflects subsectoral requirements and priori-
ties, and is supported to a large extent by subprojects already identified by
the financial intermediaries and included in their respective action plans.
Proposed Minima      TSKB      SYKB
Garments/Making up and Knitting               17.0            14.0      3.0
Spinning                                       6.0             4.5      1.5
Weaving                                       20.0            16.0      4.0
Dyeing/Printing/Finishing                     16.0            13.5      2.5
Accessories and other                          3.0             2.0      1.0
Total Allocated                               62.0            50.0     12.0
Unallocated                                   13.0            10.1      2.9
TOTAL                                   75.0            60.1      14.9
The emphasis is on garments and knitting because they are relatively
undeveloped and have employment and export potential, and weaving and dyeing/
printing/finishing because of their modernization and expansion requirements.
The proposed allocation is also expected to help correct sectoral imbalances.
4.10      The estimated total value of foreign exchange requirements for the
*            sub-projects listed in the action plans exceed the amount of the proposed Bank
loans as well as the sub-sectoral allocation suggested below, with the major
exception for garments/making up and knitting. TSKB and SYKB will continue
their efforts to identify additional eligible projects to fill existing gaps
and to make up for possible slippages. Both intermediaries feel confident
that enough projects will be identified and processed for financing within the
three year commitment period of the loan. An amount of $13 million is recom-
mended to remain unallocated in order to give TSKB and SYKB some flexibility
in committing the loan, given the relatively small size of allocation cate-
gories in comparison with average project size in some sub-sectors, the



- 26 -
uncertainty about how quickly investors in individual sub-sectors will be
willing to move ahead with specific projects some of which are still in the
formative stage, or other delays in processing of projects. Projects from
any subsector would be eligible for funding under the unallocated category
provided that they meet the same sub-sectoral criteria and are included in the
project pipeline of the updated action plan (para. 4.08).
Criteria of Eligibility
4.11      General.  Because considerable improvement in efficiency is possible
by improving management practices and training (see paras. 3.22-3.23), there
will be a general criterion of eligibility for all firms with existing tex-
tile facilities to be financed in 1980-82, from either the loan or other
resources. In particular, TSKB and SYKB have agreed to review the efficiency
of existing operations in a given mill, whether or not directly related to the
project for which financing is requested. Where significant efficiency
improvements are judged by the intermediary to be possible, sub-loans will
require an agreement between the firms and the intermediary to improve the
efficiency of operations and to agree on a time table for reasonable improve-
ments, and, if necessary, to obtain technical assistance. The technical
assistance component (paras. 4.27-4.33) will be available, as appropriate, to
facilitate this requirement. Mindful that sector projects as a whole may have
been unnecessarily capital intensive, the DFCs also intend to pay particular
attention in their appraisal reports to the technology choices available and
the reasons for the one selected, including using shadow pricing of labor
where appropriate. Additional criteria of eligibility (paras. 4.12-4.16
below) have been developed for each subsector to encourage projects that (1)
address priority needs in each subsector for modernization, bottleneck removal,
capacity expansion (summarized above, paras. 3.19-3.21) and (2) develop export
capability because they either (a) upgrade existing export lines; (b) expand
exports; or (c) supply inputs that are needed for garment exports (see paras.
3.11-3.17).
4.12      Garments/Making Up and Knitting.  Since these sub-sectors are undev-
eloped and have export and employment potential, any viable project in these
sectors will be eligible. The main criterion for priority is a project's
capability to make direct exports, which is in keeping with the sub-sector's
comparative advantage and the potential influence on the sector as a whole in
bringing about improved quality in supplier industries upstream. The defini-
tion of export-oriented is given below, para 4.19. The agreed loan covenants
require the intermediaries to allocate at least 80% of total garments making
up and knitting foreign exchange financing during 1980-82 to directly export-
oriented projects. The requirement to report semi-annually on progress has
been recorded in a supplemental letter.
4.13      Spinning.  Spinning projects will be required to qualify in at least
one of the following:
(1) modernization or bottleneck removal in the wool sector;



- 27 -
(2) improvement of quality or upgrading of product lines
for direct export in accordance with definition of
export-oriented;
(3) the production of thread or other product of export quality
needed for garment exports.
4.14      Weaving.  Weaving projects would not qualify simply because they
relieve the existing capacity shortage but will have to involve one or more of
the following:
(1) modernization or removal of bottlenecks in all sectors;
(2) the forward integration of a spinning mill with under-
utilized capacity which leads to overall improvement
in efficiency;
(3) production for direct export as a fabric in accordance
with the definition of export-oriented;
(4) the production of linings of exports standard and of
other fabrics of export standard which are an input for
garment exports.
4.15      Dyeing, Printing and Finishing (DPF).  Projects for dyeing, printing
and finishing are likely to be associated with weaving projects and in such
cases equivalent criteria will apply to DPF projects as in para 4.14 above.
In addition, commission finishing facilities serving knitting and commission
facilities in regions with a shortage of capacity would also be eligible.
4.16      Accessories.  Any projects which provide a needed input into garment
manufacturing and making up, such as zippers or buttons, for which present
local supply of adequate quality is unavailable will be eligible in this
category.
4.17      Promotional Effort Required.  The eligibility criteria which have
been developed for this project reflect closely the priorities expressed by
the Government in the revised schedule of industries eligible for investment
incentives that has just come into effect for 1979 (see para 3.25). Though
the schedule is more restrictive than before, there will be little impact
upon the projects proposed for consideration under this project by TSKB and
SYKB in their action plans since most qualify under this more restric-
tive schedule, and the majority of those that do not have already been
issued Certificates of Encouragement and therefore can be financed by the
intermediaries. A promotional effort will still be required from the inter-
mediaries, especially for the garments/making-up sector for which there is a
gap between the proposed allocation and the present pipeline, both overall and
with regard to exports.



- 28 -
Export-Orientation
4.18      The benefits of textile and garment exports through generation of
needed foreign exchange, from their tonic effect in improving sector perform-
ance as a whole, and the broader impact of the export learning experience
justify a substantial export promotional effort under this project. Directly
exporting projects can be promoted primarily in spinning where the sector's
existing export orientation needs to be maintained in the face of growing
domestic markets, and in garments/making up where significant export expansion
is possible. Analysis of the intermediaries' Action Plans indicates that at
least 30% of total project investment would be export-oriented including at
least 80% in the garments/making up sector, where export development potential
is the strongest. Under the project these percentages have been adopted by
TSKB and SYKB in the Loan Agreements as minimum targets of their lending for
textiles during the period 1980-82, whether or not Bank-financed. The June
1979 devaluation should increase the supply of export-oriented projects and
facilitate reaching these targets.
4.19      Projects will be considered export-oriented on the basis of the
following percentages of their output to be exported by the time they are
expected to reach full capacity: at least 40% for expansions or moderniza-
tions of an existing enterprise, and at least 30% for new projects. This
definition is identical to that agreed under TSKB XIII. For garments the
export levels implied by the above definition, given the additional target
that 80% must be export-oriented, would account for more than half of the
estimated growth in garment exports for the sector as a whole. Agreement has
been reached that the DFC's subloan agreements for these projects will specify
minimum export targets. Understandings have been reached that the DFC's
appraisal reports on such projects will demonstrate their bona fide export
potential using evidence of price competitiveness and an adequate marketing
strategy; also that the DFCs will satisfy themselves that sponsors obtain
available incentives in accordance with their export targets. The training of
DFC staff which will be needed to accomplish the above export objectives is
discussed below (paras. 4.24-4.26).
Other Features of the Loan
4.20      Free Limits, Subproject Size, Amortization, ERR.  The present
policy limits on each intermediary's participation in a single project ($6
million for TSKB, $2 million for SYKB) will adequately serve to prevent
pre-emption of this loan by a few large borrowers. A review of the pre-
liminary project pipeline indicates, however, that the average commitment
under this loan will be about $2 million, enabling about 35 to 45 projects
to be assisted. The same free limit of $4,000,000 for TSKB is proposed as
for TSKB XIII. For SYKB a lower limit of $750,000 is appropriate reflecting
the smaller expected size of its projects and the need for closer supervision
of its operations, this being the first time SYKB is associated with the
Bank. For the purpose of monitoring subprojects below the free limit the
intermediaries would agree to translate ex post the appraisal reports of a
sample of up to one-third of such projects, selected by the Bank, from the
list of approvals submitted.



- 29 -
4.21      While the selection criteria for individual categories should ensure
that only high priority projects are identified, the intermediaries have
also agreed to calculate an ERR, including using shadow pricing for labor
where appropriate, on all projects with fixed assets (a) above $2,000,000 for
TSKB in accordance with current practice; and (b) above the free limit for
SYKB. The ERR should exceed 15% for projects submitted under these loans.
4.22       Relending Terms.  The maturities and grace periods of the subloans
will be commensurate to the economic life of the equipment and to the sub-
borrowers' debt-servicing capacity which for the textile industry has typically
required no more than eight to ten years. The amortization schedule for
equipment would reflect the aggregate amortization schedules of the subloans
and should not exceed 15 years. The intermediaries will charge on sub-loans
the interest rate set by the Turkish monetary authorities for long-term
foreign exchange loans currently 26%-28% per annum with taxes and fees and
before taking account of interest subsidies (see para. 2.13). The foreign
exchange risk will be borne entirely by the borrowers. As in the case of the
current loans to TSKB, the intermediaries will retain as income 2.5% per
annum, of the interest payment of subloans. TSKB would also retain an addi-
tional spread to help finance the technical assistance component to the
sector, as described in para 4.31 below. The difference between the interest
charged by the intermediaries and the interest due to the Bank will be paid by
the intermediaries to the Government as a guarantee fee.
4.23      Procurement.  TSKB and SYKB routinely ensure that procurement proce-
dures appropriate to each project are followed to ensure competitive prices.
Though the organized private sector in Turkey is in general well informed of
the equipment available, the two DFCs have considerable experience in textile
equipment selection in their field, and TSKB in particular routinely advises
its clients on procurement. Procurement requirements for most contracts will
therefore be in accordance with usual DFC procedures. In the case of con-
tracts in excess of $2 million, however, an understanding was reached that
the DFC's will normally require their sub-borrowers to use an appropriate form
of international tendering which the Bank will review on an ex post basis.
3. Research and Training for the Financial Intermediaries.
4.24      The high level of TSKB's present textile sectoral knowledge derives
from a substantial effort of foreign consultants, accounting for about 25% of
its total research expenditures during the past four years, and over 50% of
its foreign exchange budget for research. Textile sector research will con-
tinue to be required, focussing on: (a) follow up and expansion upon studies
of sector productivity; (b) export market studies for specific products; (c)
monitoring of the competitiveness of existing export firms in foreign markets
under the incentive policy framework (para 3.27). An understanding has been
reached that studies of the manufacture of textile dyes and textile machinery
in Turkey will also be eligible. To conduct this research, TSKB will require
continued use of foreign consultants specialized in textiles as well as
foreign exchange to finance foreign trips of its own staff. The foreign
exchange cost of this research is estimated at $300,000. TSKB's commitments



- 30 -
to continue its sector research program along the above lines, with individual
studies proceeding according to an outline acceptable to the Bank has been
recorded in its Loan Agreement.
4.25      The management of both intermediaries recognize that their staff's
expertise in appraising the export prospects of projects, and in offering
assistance to investors in this respect, is limited. Under the TSKB XIII loan
TSKB is correcting this weakness by launching a comprehensive training program
on the export aspects of projects for the technical and economic staff which
will comprise: (i) hiring of a qualified expert for a period of 2 years,
mainly for the purpose of providing on-the-job training to TSKB staff in the
promotion of exports; (ii) seminars and training courses in Istanbul using
foreign experts to lecture; (iii) sending selected members of the staff on
trips abroad for practical experience, e.g. working with foreign and inter-
national export promotion organizations, participating in negotiations of
export contracts of TSKB's clients with their foreign customers. This train-
ing program is being organized with assistance from the Geneva-based Inter-
national Trade Center (ITC) and other qualified public and private
technical assistance institutions. TSKB has already established
contacts with ITC and several other institutins and preparation of a tech-
nical assistance agreement between ITC and TSKB is already fairly advanced. 1/
For the purposes of this project, additional emphasis on the textile sector
(including problems of pollution control) will be needed and an additional
$100,000 will be allocated. The program for SYKB, which is at a less advanced
stage, would be entirely financed out of this project. It is being developed
along the same lines and in close cooperation with TSKB and drawing upon
the same institutions. SYKB's program would also require an allocation of
$100,000.
4.26      SYKB has made a commitment in its Loan Agreement to carry out a
training program emphasizing textiles along the above lines acceptable to the
Bank. TSKB will be required to demonstrate that its program takes adequate
account of the textile sector's specific requirements. Both agreed to co-
operate closely (this being recorded in the protocol, para. 4.03) and to
combine the programs and facilities where feasible. Disbursement of the
relevant portions ($300,000 for TSKB research, $200,000 for textile oriented
training for both intermediaries) will be made conditional on the following
elements which will be reviewed by, and must be acceptable to, the Bank: (a)
technical assistance agreements with the training and technical assistance
institutions; (b) qualifications and terms of reference of the technical
assistance staff to be used by them; (c) detailed outlines of the first phase
of the training programs and outline of the research studies proposed.
4.   Technical Assistance
4.27      The technical assistance component will help significantly improve
the industry's efficiency at low cost, through assistance in industrial/pro-
duction engineering and financial control, and improve export marketing (see
1/   For details see TSKB XIII, SAR Project File A.9, para 6.06.



- 31 -
paras 3.22-3.23, 3.28). It comprises a local training and consultancy exten-
sion service, and a training, technical assistance and technology fund (see
Annex 8). They are intended to be complementary and TSKB has agreed to avoid
duplication. Firms which have used the extension service and have identified
further needs will receive special priority under the technology fund, but
firms which have used the fund will not be allowed to use the extension
service unless TSKB judges no overlap in services will occur.
4.28      Extension service.  This aims to institutionalize in Turkey a
capacity for diagnosis, trouble shooting and in-plant training in production
management and cost control. For textiles, it will involve a review of plant
operations and in-plant courses. For garments/ making-up, the service will
be more comprehensive; an export marketing assistance will also be provided.
In the first two years, the service is expected to reach about 40 firms, 20
each in textiles and garments, and in five years, up to 160 firms. Most
beneficiaries are expected to be clients of the DFCs, although all firms will
be eligible. Assisted firms will receive priority for both equipment loans
and use of the technology fund.
4.29      TSKB has agreed to administer the service for at least 3 years from
the effectiveness date, which will cover the commitment period for equipment
loans. This is appropriate in view of its management ability, large and
experienced textile staff, and contacts with the industry. TSKB has agreed to
consult SYKB and representatives of the industry with respect to the carrying
out of the services, the understanding being that TSKB will seek policy
guidance from, and strengthen contacts with, appropriate industrial organi-
zations. A further understanding was reached that TSKB will, in consul-
tation with SYKB and the consultants (next paragraph), develop procedures
satisfactory to the Government and the Bank to ensure that the firms selected
to participate will make effective use of the services and will provide a
demonstration effect to the sector as a whole. Since the service is outside
TSKB's main lending activities, there will be a review within 2 years of
effectiveness by the DFCs, the Government, industry representatives and the
Bank, to evaluate progress and propose successor institutional and financial
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank and the Government. Institutional
possibilities include continued DFC control, control by one or more industry
associations or some combination of DFC and industry (see Annex 8, para 5).
An understanding has been reached that TSKB will recommend successor arrange-
ments to the review meeting, and that it will provide interim semi-annual
reports on progress. It will also translate ex post up to one-third of
reports on firms using the service selected by the Bank for monitoring.
4.30      TSKB has agreed to select resident and short-term consultants,
including an initial short-term consultant to assist in start up, to provide
an estimated 128 man-months of services over five years at an average foreign
exchange cost based on per man-month salary and benefits of $6400. Additional
amounts are allocated to allow for price escalation over a 5-year period,
travel and administrative supplies and contingencies. The International Trade
Center may help TSKB find export marketing consultants. These consultants
will train fourteen Turkish counterparts, who will be offered attractive
salaries to retain them. The appointment of (i) an experienced consultant



- 32 -
to assist TSKB in starting up the service; and (ii) consultants in weaving/
knitting, and for industrial engineering assistance to garments/making-up,
will be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loans. Agreement will
be reached that (i) the detailed description of the program (financial and
manpower budgets for the first year, and the mechanism for selecting benefi-
ciary firms; and (ii) the qualifications, experience and terms of reference
of the consultants, will be approved by the Bank prior to disbursements for
this service. An understanding was also reached that TSKB would secure the
Government's and the Bank's approval before changing the program.
4.31      TSKB will borrow the estimated foreign exchange cost of $1.2 million
as part of the proposed Bank loan to it. The estimated local currency cost
will be TL 100 million in mid-1978 prices. TSKB has agreed that the service
will be free for no more than the first two years; and that thereafter, increas-
ing fees will be charged with a view to enabling it to be self-supporting
after five years. To meet the deficit of the first three years, TSKB will
for 7 years retain 1 percent per annum of the gross spread on the proposed
loan to it, plus amounts sufficient to service the loan portion borrowed. The
successor arrangements will also provide for adequate financing of the service.
4.32      Training, Technical Assistance and Technology Fund.  The extension
service will cover only a portion of the sector's needs in five years. Also,
its services will necessarily be limited by its staff's size and relative
lack of specialization. The proposed project therefore includes a $3.3 mil-
lion loan fund for additional and more specialized assistance in production/
industrial engineering, financial controls, research and development, pollu-
tion control, and export marketing. It will finance the foreign exchange
costs of training abroad, hiring foreign consultants, and the purchase of
equipment related to technological adjustment and quality upgrading such as
laboratory and testing equipment.
4.33      TSKB has agreed to administer the fund.  It has already identified
demand sufficient to use 30 percent of it. It has agreed to undertake further
promotion, in close cooperation with the extension service, according to a
plan to be submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1980 for review; give priority
to firms aiming to increase the productivity and efficiency of existing
equipment, and to those entering, expanding, or upgrading exports; and give
equal priority to SYKB's clients on a first-come-first-served basis. Appraisal
will be simple and involve the creditworthiness of the firm, the eligibility
of the expenditure, and its appropriateness to the firm's objectives. Loans
from the technology fund are expected to average $100,000, but will be subject
to an agreed maximum of $250,000; terms are expected to average 3 to 5 years
including 2 years of grace, but will be subject to an agreed maximum of 6                    a
years. A supplemental letter will record TSKB's requirement to provide
semi-annual reports on commitments, approvals, status of projects in the
pipeline and the provision ex post of up to one-third of the appraisals in
English for the purpose of monitoring. If demand for this Fund proves strong
it would be eligible for additional funds from the unallocated category of the
equipment component with prior Bank approval.



- 33 -
5.   Environmental Impact
4.34      The existing environmental guidelines in Turkey are not fully suit-
able and the Government has not yet published revised guidelines nor a time-
table for compliance for existing industry, though it proposes to do so in
the near future. The intermediaries are familiar with environmental hazards
of the textile sector and provide advice to clients concerning the nature and
cost of investment needed to reduce their impact, but they have been reluctant
to penalize individual clients by insisting that they undertake the additional
investment in the absence of a national or regional effort that imposes the
standards on all mills equally. They recognize that additional effort is
needed, and in the absence of a suitable national or regional program the
following measures have been agreed, which the intermediaries have sufficient
capability to administer:
(a) Sub-projects involving new plants or major expansion on
separate physical premises will be required to meet the
Bank environmental guidelines 1/ for textile plants as a
condition of loan approval unless otherwise agreed.
(b) Firms in the DPF sub-sector (which poses the most
serious problems of pollutant discharge) seeking
financing for expansion or modernization of existing
facilities will be required to provide intermediaries
with data on existing and proposed effluent discharge
to enable a judgment by the intermediary of the steps,
if any, that are necessary to make reasonable improve-
ments. If these are possible, the sub-borrowers
will have to agree to prepare and carry out a plan for
achieving them. Any proposed sub-project which
worsens the impact of pollutant discharge will be
ineligible for financing unless the Bank and the
financial intermediary otherwise agree.
6.   Disbursements
4.35      Disbursements will be made against standard documentation in respect
of (i) 100% of c.i.f. foreign exchange expenditures for equipment; (ii) foreign
exchange expenditures for technical assistance and for DFC training and
research. Disbursements are expected to be completed during 1984, so the
closing date for both loans will be December 31, 1984.
C. Benefits and Risks
Benefits
4.36      This project will improve sectoral balance and promote expansion
and value added especially in less developed sectors. It will improve per-
formance by promoting modernization, integration and bottleneck removal
1/   See Project File A.10 for environmental guidelines for the textile sector
prepared by World Bank Office of Environmental Affairs.



- 34 -
where required. Through technical assistance and training it will increase
utilization of equipment and reduce costs of inputs. It aims to develop a
capability in Turkey to continue to provide such assistance. In the process
100-130 firms would be directly assist-d involving up to a third of total
sector capacity. The project will help to channel sector production capability
to exports which will earn about 25 million in foreign exchange, and will help
to strengthen the capability of the financial intermediaries and the industry
itself to promote further exports. The loan will provide loans to 35-45 firms
which will help to create about 5,000 jobs of which 3,000 would meet the
Bank's urban poverty capital intensity criterion. The project will develop
the capability of the financial intermediaries to engage in sector lending.
It will begin to sensitize them and their clients to the environmental impact
of industrial projects and the need to take concrete steps to limit further
environmental damage.
Risks
4.37      This is the first loan in the Bank to utilize strictly private
financial intermediaries to foster the development of a specific manufacturing
sub-sector, textiles, and is necessarily somewhat experimental. With regard
to technical assistance it calls for TSKB, the principal intermediary involved,
to undertake a major new type of activity, the launching of an extension ser-
vice for which there are substantial risks that its ultimate objective of
implanting a local capability in Turkey (due primarily to industry resistance
and recruitment problems) would not be achieved. The great potential benefits
in relation to costs justify the risks, however (see para 4.34), and TSKB, one
of the Bank's most experienced clients, has a good record of innovation in
pursuit of national objectives. For the closely related component of a tech-
nology fund for the sector, a sufficient pipeline has not yet been identified
(para 4.38). TSKB, however, is capable and willing to undertake the promo-
tional effort required. There is a risk that the targets for the garment/
making up sector which are presently well beyond the project pipeline that has
been identified (para 4.08) will not be achieved because of the small industry
characteristics of this sub-sector. The especially high employment and export
benefits justify the promotional efforts which these targets (para. 4.19) will
spur but continued stagnation in the major export market areas (especially the
EEC) leading to extension of present constraints on Turkish garment quotas
would seriously jeopardize attaining them. The present importance of exports
to Turkey, however, warrants taking this risk and many of the benefits from
exposure to export would be realized simply from the effort to export, regard-
less of the levels actually achieved.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.01      The Bank has reached agreement with the Government and the finan-
cial intermediaries, TSKB and SYKB, for a project with two loans totaling
US$80,000,000 with the following components:
(a) an equipment component of US$75 million (paras 4.06-4.23)
to be lent to TSKB ($60.1 million) and to SYKB ($14.9



- 35 -
million) for the financing of up to 100% of the foreign
exchange requirements of high priority sub-projects in the
textiles and garment/making up sector;
(b) a training and technical assistance component for the sector
(paras 4.27-4.33) of US$4.5 million to be lent to TSKB to
finance the foreign exchange requirements of:
(i)  the establishment of a local training and consultancy
extension service (US$1,200,000) (paras 4.27-4.31);
and
(ii) a Training, Technical Assistance and Technology Fund
(US$3,300,000) for high priority subprojects for
training, technical assistance, and technology
transfer from foreign sources (paras 4.32-4.33).
(c) a component of US$500,000 for the financing of training and
special studies by the financial intermediaries (paras 4.24-
4.26) with $400,000 for TSKB and $100,000 for SYKB.
5.02      Agreements and understandings regarding this loan detailed in paras
5.03-5.09 below have been reached and recorded for the most part in:
(a) a loan agreement with TSKB for a loan of US$65,000,000;
(b) a loan agreement with SYKB for a loan of US$15,000,000;
and
(c)  two guarantee agreements with Government.
5.03      The loan agreements with each intermediary have the following common
elements on which agreement has been reached:
1. A closing date of December 31, 1984, and certain speci-
fied relending terms (para 4.22).
2. Three-year commitment period ending on December 31, 1982
(para 4.06).
3. Sub-sectoral definition, allocation, and project
eligibility selection criteria (paras 4.09, 4.11-4.16,
4.20).
4. Export requirements and orientation (paras 4.18-4.19).
5. Environmental impact measures (para 4.34).
6. Textile sector financing not provided from the loans
to comply with sub-project criteria (paras. 4.07 and
4.11).



- 36 -
Other important features include:.
1.   Free limits of $4 million for TSKB and $750,000 for
SYKB (para 4.20).
2.   Intermediaries to retain as income 2.5% of interest pay-
ment on sub-loans, plus additional amounts to TSKB to
finance the extension service (para 4.22).
Component for Training, Technical Assistance and Technology
Transfer to the Sector:
1.   Local training and consultancy extension service.  TSKB's
responsibility to launch and administer the service for at
least a three year period (para 4.29). Bank review and
acceptance of resident foreign consultants and initial
short-term consultant for start-up. Recruitment of the
latter and the initially required consultants (for weaving
and for industrial engineering assistance to garments) as a
condition of loan effectiveness (para 4.30). Provision for
mid-term review (para 4.30). Financing (para 4.31).
2.   Loan Fund for Training Technical Assistance and Technology
Transfer for Textiles:
a.   eligibility, priority guidelines for project selection,
single project limits, appraisal, commitment, reporting
and review procedures (paras 4.32-4.33);
b.   relending terms (para 4.33);
c.   promotional efforts required of TSKB (para 4.33);
d.   TSKB required to give equal priority to clients referred
by SYKB (para 4.33).
5.04      Agreement and understandings with TSKB on full subscription and sub-
sequently full payment of its ongoing capital increase; and on restoration of
its debt-equity ratio by end-1980, if necessary by further capital increase
(para. 4.04).
5.05      Agreement with SYKB (para 4.05, and Annex 6, paras 4, 8-10) regard-
ing increase in its present share capital; revision of debt/equity ratio and
observance of limits; build up of provisions; and consolidated statement of
policies.
5.06      The following conditions of effectiveness have been agreed upon
during negotiations: signing of protocol pledging close cooperation by
intermediaries (para 4.03); recruitment of specified consultants (para 4.30).
Since there are two proposed loans, TSKB could fulfill its effectiveness



- 37 -
conditions before SYKB and begin project operations alone. This is reasonable
since it will handle about 80 percent of the Bank funds and will administer
both the extension service and technology fund.
5.07      In addition, the following understandings have been reached:
(a) Both intermediaries to provide progress reports regarding
equipment component (paras 4.08, 4.17, 4.20), and export
activities (para 4.19);
(b) TSKB to monitor and report semi-annually on: the impact of
export incentives on the garment sector for supervision
mission discussions (para 3.27); progress of Extension
Service (para 4.29); and the Technology Fund (para 4.33).
5.08      The following understandings have been reached with the Government:
(a) conduct of a textile policy dialogue with the Bank (paras
3.27, 3.28);
(b) the intermediaries to pay the Government a fee equal to the
amount by which payment of interest due on a sub-loan exceeds
a positive spread of 2-1/2% plus, in the case of TSKB, addi-
tional amounts required to finance the Extension Service
(paras 4.22, 4.31).



-38-
Annex 1
Page 1
GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS
Carded Yarn:      Yarns made from fibers that have been carded but not combed
in the manufacturing process. Most spun yarns are of this
type.
Combed Yarn:      Yarns in which shorter fibers have been combed in the early
stages of processing which enables finer yarns to be spun
from a given quality of cotton.
Cotton Sector:   A term used broadly to designate the spinning, weaving,
and DPF sub-sectors which process textile fibers with equip-
ment developed to process cotton fibers even though a sub-
stantial proportion or even all the throughput at a given
mill may be man-made fibers.
DPF               Short for "Dyeing, Printing and Finishing" processes.
Fiber,
Man-made:       A class name for various genera of fibers (including fila-
ments produced from fiber forming substances which may be:
(1) polymers synthesized by man from simple chemical com-
pounds; (2) modified or transformed natural polymers.
Fiber
Natural:        A class name for various genera of fibers, including fila-
ments of: (1) animal; (2) mineral; or (3) vegetable origin.
Examples: (1) silk and wool; (2) asbestos; (3) cotton,
flax, jute, ramie.
Integration,
Vertical:       The process in which an industrial entity expands by adding
a technically contiguous process. "Forward integration"
adds a process which uses the output of the entity as an
input. An example is the addition of weaving to a spinning
mill. Backwards integration, by the same token, adds a
process which supplies an input.
Linear Meter:    One yard of textile fabric measured lengthwise.  Thus,
the dimensions of a linear meter of cloth with a finished
width of 150 cm would be 100 cm by 150 cm. A "meter" of
fabric means a linear meter, not a square meter.
Making Up:        The conversion of fabrics into garments or household
articles involving the processes of cutting and sewing.
Productivity:     Output per manhour; in the textile industry productivity
in spinning is usually expressed in kg of yarn and in
weaving in thousand weft yarn inserted.



- 39 -
Annex 1
Page 2
Standard Time:   The time established, through methods time measurement (MTM)
for completing a specific production task for a specific
product, as the standard for an individual firm or for the
industry in a given country. Actual operator times are
compared with standard time to determine operator efficiency.
Wool System:      A term used broadly to designate the spinning, weaving and
DPF sub-sectors which utilize equipment developed to process
wool fibers, even though a substantial proportion of the
fiber throughput in a given mill may be cellulosic or syn-
thetic fibers.



Projected Requirements for Textile Yarns in Turkey
(Thousand Tons)
DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION                                 EXPORTS
Woolen
Cotton                  and      Carpets                                  Fabrics
Woven               Worsted       and                         Cotton    Made-Up
Fabrics    Knits    Fabrics       Misc.      TOTAL              Yarn      Articles         TOTAL
1977                          220.0      48.0       16.9        25.5       310.4             58.1        11.6            380.1
1978 Estimate                 221.9      59.4       17.1        25.7       314.1             72.0        10.0            396.1
1980 Forecast                 233.2      54.3       18.3        27.3       333.1             74.9        15.0            423.0
1983 Forecast                 260.8      66.0       21.3        31.9       379.9             79.5        19.6            479.0
Average annual
growth rate 77-83             2.9       5.5        3.9         3.8         3.4              2.0 4/      9.1              3.9
Historical trend                5.9 1/  n.a.              7.7 2/             5.2 3/          21.8 1/         -
Source: Bank estimates based upon data from Werner, Survey of the Turkish Textile Industry,
(Project File, No. A _); TSKB, Wool, Wool Yarn and Wool Textiles (Project File, No. ),
TSKB, Textile Sector (Project File, No.         ) and Working Papers (Project File, No.         ).
1/ Growth rate from 1970-77.
2/ Growth rate from 1968-75.
31 ]964-74.                                                                                                                        (
4/  Quota is 76,000 but individual country quotas make it difficult to exactly fulfill total
quota. Amount reached in 1978 is Practical maximum. 2%/year is reasonable expectation.



- 41 -                                    Annex 3
Present and Projected Garment and Made-Up Textile Exports from Turkey 1/
(tons)
1977 (Actual)
Exports        Grand
Exports to EEC Countries       Total EEC      to Other       Total
CCT Category          Restricted  Non-restricted   (3 = 1 + 2) C Countries   (6 = 3 + 5)
(1)            (2)                            (4)
60.  Knitted Garments         1,154             238           1,392            88         1,480
61.  Woven Garments             317           1,745           2,062           311         2,373
62.  Household Articles         644             -               644           994         1,638
TOTAL                   2,115           1,983            4,098        1,393         5,491
1980 (Projected)
60.  Knitted Garments         1,299             350           1,649           170         1,819
61.  Woven Garments             331           2,236           2,567           500         3,067
62.  Household Articles         724             200             924         1,184         2,108
TOTAL                   2,354           2,786           5,140         1,854         6,994
1983 (Projected)
60.  Knitted Garments         1,547             500           2,047           300         2,347
61.  Woven Garments             372           3,349           3,721           850         4,571
62.  Household Articles         862             500           1,362         1,597         2,959
TOTAL                   2,781           4,349           7,130         2,747         9,878
Average Annual Growth
Rate, 77-83                  4.7%           14.0%            9.7%         12.0%         10.3%
Historical Growth
1970-77                      -                -               -             -           64.6%
1/  EEC restricted forecast as follows:  categories 60 and 62 at 4% per year through 1980,
at 6% thereafter category 61 and 1 1/2% to 1980 and at 4% thereafter.
2,  EEC non-restricted:  assumed grow at average of 12% per year to 1980 and at
_'6% per vear thereafter to 1983.
3/  Tc non-EEC countries assumed that can grow at 10% per year to 1980 and at 14% per year
thereafter.
4/  1977 is taken as base year from which growth is projected.
Source: Bank Estimates based upon EEC import statistics and data from Turkish
Garment Exporter's Union.



Annex 4
- 42 -                                 Page 1
Investment Requirements for Private
Organized Textile Sector
The estimates of investment required by the sector during the commitment
period of the loan have been developed for each of the items in Table 2
(para. 3.18) of the report taking into account as appropriate existing
capacity, additional capacity in demand expansion, needs in modernization,
targeted productivity increases and the plans of the private and public sector.
Given the unevenness of existing data, the uncertainty regarding growth in
demand under present economic conditions in Turkey, and lack of knowledge
about how fast machine productivity of existing equipment can improve, the
investment forecasts are necessarily imprecise. The basis for the forecast
of cotton sector weaving, which is projected as the single most important
requirement for the sector is given below. The basis for other investment
estimates can be found by reference to notes and supporting tables in the
Project File, B.3.
Estimate of Foreign Exchange Required for
Expansion and Replacement in Private Cotton Sector
1.  Forecast Demand for Cotton Woven Fabrics, 1983 (million m )               1,507 1/
2.  less Present Capacity (million m 2)                                      -1,194
3.  l.sa Industry Productivity Increase 2/ (million m 2)                     -   28 2/
4.  Gross Requirement for Additional Capacity, 1977-83 (million m 2)             300
5.  less Increase in Public Sector Capacity (million m 2)                    -   65 3/
6.  less Projects with Certificate expected to obtain financing
commitments prior to 1980 (million m2 )                                  -   25 4/
7.  Net Additional loom capacity required from private sector
(million m 2)                                                               195
8.  Looms Required for Increased Demand (loom equivalent)                     5,000 5/
9.  Looms required for Replacement (loom equivalent)                          1,500 6/
10.  Total Looms Required by Private Sector 1977-1983 (loom equivalent)    6,500 7/
11.  Investment required ($ million)                                           136.5



Annex 4
- 43 -                              Page 2
Notes
1/ Based on yarn forecasts presented in Annex 3, page 2 for the sum of cotton
woven for domestic consumption plus exports of fabrics and made-up articles,
converted to square meters of fabric at 0.186 kg/m 2.
2/ An increase of 1% per year in machine productivity 1980-83 is assumed for the
organized sector whose capacity is estimated at roughly 700 million square
meters.
3/  Assumed that rehabilitization and modernization program of Sumerbank,for
which Bank project is being prepared will enable Sumerbank to increase pro-
duction by 50 million m 2 in 1980 and 1983 to reach full capacity operation
of 250 million m 2
4/ Certificates of encouragement for additional weaving capacity estimated at 335.5
million m 2 have been authorized but in judgment of TSKB only 220 million m
are serious projects as discussed in TSKB's Textile Sector Study (Project File,
No. A 4), Vol 1, p. 26. Because of foreign exchange constraints in Turkey it
is assumed that only (i.e. 25 million m 2) will receive commitments prior to
the effective date of the project file essentially prior to 1980.
5/ Assumes an average new loom will produce 35,000 running meters per annum with
a mixture of narrow and wide looms which on the average will produce a fabric
of 1.2 meters in width. To the extent that very wide looms are installed in
place of either narrow or wise looms the total number of looms will be reduced.
Total investment costs may or may not be reduced depending upon the brand of
loom purchased.
6/ Based on estimate that 4,000 narrow loom (out of 6,359 narrow looms among larger
firms) would be replaced over 6 year period with new looms of double productive
capability.
7/ Based on an average of $21,000 per loom equivalent including associated weaving
preparatory equipment, etc.



SBORT(OINIIGS IN PRODUCTIC7 ZNGINEERING AND TECENICAL ASSISTANCE ? "lUIRED IN PRIVATE ORGANIZED SECTOR
Sector         Work       Layout    Production       Quality    Product    Preventative        House     Training of    Financial   Management
Methods                Planning       Control    Design       Maintenance      Keeping    Supervisors    Controls    Functions
Spinning             0           0            0             1          0              2              1             2              1            0
Weaving              2            1            2             3         1              2              2             3               2           2
Dyeing and           3            1           2             3          1              2              2             3              2            2
finishing
Printing             2            1           3             3          2              2              3             3              3            2
Knitting and         2            1            2             3         2              2              2             3              2            2
knitwear
Garment              3            0            2             3         2              1              2             3               2           2
Manufacture     l           _                                                                                           _ _                    _ -
LEGEND: 0 Not Required; 1 Requirement slight; 2 Requirement moderate; 3 Requirement great
Work Methods:          Correct use of machines, sequence of                   Preventatiye           Systematic maintenance of machines to
machine operations.                                   Maintenance:            avoid unscheduled stoppages and breakdowns.
Layout:                Efficient space utilization, arrangement               HouseKeeping:          Clean and tidy workplace, clear passages
of machines in processing sequence.                                           and access to machines.
Production             Maximum use of machines and labor                      Training of            Selection of personnel, on the job training,
Planning:              materials, work flow, job simplification,              Supervisors:           comunicating with workers and management,
standard operation procedures, within                                         human relations.
the required delivery dates.
Q ility Control:    Inspection, testing asterials and                       Financial controls:  Standard costing, pricing, budgeting.
Qualitv Control:       Inspection, testing materials and
products to established standard                      Management              Specialization of functions, areas of
requirements, controlling consistency                 Functions:              responsibility, evaluation of performance,
of products,                                                                  job specification, knowledge of labor,
laews and social security regulations,
Product Design:        Modification of design to simpllfy the                                        accidents preventing.
assembly and reduce time In process.
*                                                                                                             CD0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
EMENA/lDF                                                                                                                                              i



45 _
ANNEX 6
Page 1
SYKB: A REVIEW OF THE INSTITUTION, OPERATIONS,
FINANCIAL SITUATION AND PROSPECTS
1.        Establishment and Ownership.  SYKB was established in 1963 by
a group of five Turkish Commerical Banks. Is Bank controls 60% of SYKB's TL
400 million share-capital. Is Bank and three of the other banks are also
shareholders of TSKB. In spite of this common ownership, TSKB and SYKB
operate independently and often perceive themselves as competitors.
2.        Management and Staff.  SYKB is managed efficiently.  Mr. Cahit
Kocaomer, general manager of Is Bank and chairman of TSKB's board, has been
the chairman of SYKB's six-member board since February 1976. In January 1979,
Mr. Orhan Altan succeeded the retiring General Manager who had been in the
position since the establishment of SYKB. Mr. Altan, has considerable
experience in the banking field and has impressed the Bank staff as competent
and able to turn SYKB into a more dynamic and growth oriented institution.
3.        SYKB has a professional staff of 38 including 11 financial analysts,
6 economists and 5 engineers. Most of the departmental managers and staff
have long experience to recruit 2 or 3 additional staff during 1979 to
strengthen its technical staff and to meet the needs of its growing operations.
To handle the projects under the proposed loan, SYKB has agreed to engage a
textile engineer.
4.        Policies and Procedures.  SYKB has not consolidated its policies
into a formal Policy Statement; but, in response to the Bank's request, it has
agreed to do so within 1979. The principal operational criteria which have
evolved over the past years include: (i) SYKB finances projects in which at
least 51% of the ownership is in private hands; (ii) priority is given to
projects consistent with the country's Development Plan and Annual Programs;
(iii) in general, loans do not exceed TL 50 million and equity investments TL
5 million and are not less than TL 1 million; and (iv) SYKB requires 50%
financing by project sponsors.
5.        Appraisal and Supervision.  SYKB's appraisal work is satisfactory.
Projects are subjected to careful technical, economic and financial evaluation,
including their contribution to the economy (e.g. favorable impact on the
balance of payments, regional dispersion). SYKB generally requires an eco-
nomic rate of return of at least 20% in the projects it finances.  SYKB's
loans are secured by mortgages and/or guarantees. The lending rate is 20% and
the borrower bears the foreign exchange risk. The weighted effective cost of
SYKB's funds is currently about 28% per annum as a result of taxes and fees.
On the real cost of interest, see paras. 2.13, 2.14.
6.        Operations.  Total annual approvals in recent years have fluctuated
between TL 400 and TL 500 million. Unlike TSKB, local currency loans account
for about 83% of its total approvals; foreign currency loans and equity invest-
ments for 15% and 2% respectively.  SYKB's only foreign exchange resources
from AID and EIB were exhausted in 1977 and no foreign currency loans were



- 46 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 2
made in 1978 in part on country grounds. SYKB had to turn down bankable
projects due to shortage of foreign exchange during 1977-78. Working capital
loans account for about 20% of its total approvals. Although SYKB has been
financing industries in all sub-sectors, its major involvement has been in
textiles (25% of total approvals), engineering industries (19.3%), and food
and beverages (9.1%). About one-third of SYKB's loans during 1973-78 have
been in the less developed regions. The average size of loan has fluctuated
between TL 6 and TL 9 million, but increased to TL 13.5 million in 1978
primarily due to the devaluation. About 45% of SYKB's loans have been
allocated for new projects.
7.        Resources.  In addition to its share capital (TL 400 million),
SYKB has access to long-term loans from its shareholder commercial banks out
of their deposits. The outstanding amount from this source was about TL 700
million at end of 1978. Other local resources mobilized by SYKB are: (i) a
Government subordinated loan of TL 106 million in 1969 and funds from the
Central Bank under a rediscounting facility amounting to TL 390.7 million by
December 1978. The foreign resources mobilized by SYKB to date are two AID
loans ($14 million) in 1969 and 1973 and two EIB loans of US$6 million each in
1974 and 1976. All of these funds have been fully utilized. A new EIB loan
of $19 million and a French line of credit of $13 million have just been
agreed.
8.        Financial Position.  SYKB's financial position is sound.  Adminis-
trative expenses, at 1.4% of total assets, are reasonable. SYKB's profit
record has been satisfactory, with earnings before tax amounting to between
30 and 33% of average net worth since 1975. About 85% of SYKB's net income
in 1977 and 1978 has been distributed to shareholders in proportion to their
shareholding and outstanding loans to SYKB. SYKB increased its share capital
from TL 40 million to TL 100 million in 1978, and as of December 1978 its
long-term debt-equity ratio was 12.0:1. SYKB has agreed to increase its share
capital further by TL 300 million by December 31, 1979; and that from the
long-term debt (including borrowings from its shareholders) equity ratio would
.  This level of debt is considered reasonable given SYKB's
sound management and quality of portfolio.
9.        Quality of Portfolio.  The quality of SYKB's loan portfolio is
satisfactory. Losses on loans over the recent years have been negligible.
At December 31, 1978, arrears of more than 3 months amounted to TL 23.4
million (1.2% of loans) affecting 3.8% of loans outstanding, which is well
within acceptable limits. SYKB has assisted the four borrowers involved to
overcome their financial marketing and management difficulties, and expects
the situation is now under control. Because there have been no losses,
specific provisions for bad debts has not been deemed necessary. However,
in view of the projected growth of its operations, SYKB has agreed beginning
1979, to allocate 5% of its annual income to provisions for bad debts to build
up provisions to 2% of Loans and Equity portfolio. Such provisions will
be in addition to, and not treated as part of, SYKB's equity. SYKB's annual
financial statements are satisfactorily audited by Touche Ross & Co., a firm
of international reputation.



- 47 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 3
10.       Outlook for Resource Mobilization.  SYKB under its new management
is anxious to accelerate its growth and increase its role in private industry
financing. It plans over the next five years to increase the proportion of
its foreign exchange lending (12% of its total loan commitments since 1976) to
about half of its total annual commitments of 1.0 billion in 1979 increasing
to TL 1.5 billion by 1983.  To this end, it intends to give high priority to
mobilization of fresh foreign resources which has been a major constraint on
its growth in recent years. Resource expectations include the US$15.0 million
of the proposed textile sector loan and another loan from the Bank in the same
amount in 1981 for an urban employment project. SYKB hopes to obtain a
further $12 million loan from EIB in 1981. SYKB also expects to obtain
further French loans in 1980 and 1981. Finally, through the contacts of its
shareholders banks with the international financial markets, SYKB in recent
months has approached several European and American banks for loan funds.
Although these attempts are unlikely to give immediate results given Turkey's
economic situation, SYKB forecasts mobilizing resources from capital markets
of about US$10.0 million by 1982. With regard to local currency, SYKB expects
to continue to roll over existing local currency resources. An increasingly
important source of fresh funds however is expected to be the Central Bank
rediscounting facility, from which SYKB expects to mobilize a total of TL 1.0
billion over the next five years. For additional details on SYKB's organiza-
tion, operations, and financial condition, see Project File B.ll.



Annex 6
- 48 -                      Page 4
SINAI YATIRIMf KIEDI BANKASI A.0.
Projected Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements
(TL Million)
1979      1980      1981      1982       1983
Approvals
Local Currency Loans          517.9      418.0     623.7      599.1      677.1
Foreign Exchange Loans        500.1      613.2      769.1     705.1      753.2
Total Investments        1,018.0   1,031.2   1,392.8   1,304.2   1,430.3
Equity Investments              12.3      12.0       14.4      17.3       20.7
Total Approvals          1,030.3   1,043.2   1,407.2   1,321.5   1,451.0
3==s==~~~~~~~~ == =;  =  ===   s ==    S=  ==
Commitments
Local Currency Loans          480.4      417.1     551.4      574.0      627.6
Foreign Exchange Loans        375.1      584.9      730.1     721.1      741.2
Total Loans                855.5   1,002.0   1,281.5   1,295.1   1,368.8
Equity Investments              12.3      12.0       14.4      17.3       20.7
Total Commitments          867.8   1,014.0   1,295.9   1,312.4   1,389.5
Disbursements
Local Currency Loans          429.9      436.1     511.1      567.2     611.5
Foreign Exchange Loans        281.3      532.5     693.8      723.3      736.2
Total Loans                711.2      968.6   1,204.9   1,290.5   1,347.7
Equity Investments             11.3       11.0       13.2      15.8       19.1
Total Disbursements        722.5      979.6   1,218.1   1,306.3   1,366.3
min6-"   =mm        in a=m_o S Sa_t mW"=



Annex 6
49-                             Page 5
SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI A.O.
Projected Income Statements -- 1979 - 1983
(TL Millions)
1978      1979      1980     1981      1982       1983
(Actual)
INCOME (Million TL)
Income from loans:
- TL Loans                              252.7      247.5    284.7    311.1    340.5        372.0
- Foreign Currency Loans              )            152.1    267.1    408.7    537.4        621.0
- Dividends                              11.5       20.0     22.0      24.2     26.6        35.3
- Other Income                            6.2       10.9     19.1      23.6     24.8        22.5
Total Income                      270.4     430.5    592.9    767.6    929.3    1,05.0
EXPENSES
Expenses related to debt                 91.8      189.1    304.8    433.5    560.2        652.1
Personnel eicpenses                    ) 28.3       31.5     39.4      49.2     61.5        76.9
Provision for termination                            1        1
indemnity                               -         1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0         1.0
Administrative expenses                   4.8        3.2      3.9       4.7      5.6         6.7
Taxes, dues and fees                                 7.3      9.4      10.2     10.8        12.4
Depreciation                           )1.2                   1.2       1.2      1.2         1.2
Provision for losses related                         1..
to loans and equity investments         -         6.8       8.1       9.0      9.5         9.9
Total Expenses                    103.0     240.1    367.8    508.8    649.8         760.2
Income before taxes                     140.8     190.4    225.1    258.8    279.5         290.8
Taxes                                    37.8       50.4     59.6      68.6     74.0        77.0
Net Income                              103.0      140.0    165.5    190.2    205.5        213.8
APPLICATION OF INCOME
- Statutory reserve (5%)                 15.6        9.5     11.3      12.9     13.9        14.5
- Additional reserve (10%)             )            11.4     13.5      15.5     16.8        17.4
*        - Dividend Available for
distribution                         87.4     116.8    138.0    158.7    171.5         178.4
- Dividend bonus                       )             2.3      2.7       3.1      3.3         3.5
Total                             103.0     140.0    165.5    190.2    205.5         213.8



Annex 6
-50 -                            Page 6
SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI A.O.
Balance Sheets -- 1978-1983
(TL Millions)
1978        1979        1980        1981       1982        1983
(Actual)
ASSETS
Cash                                  11.8        206.2      300.9       383.5      450.7       496.1
Accrued Interest                      80.2         84.7      101.7       126.3      152.2       176.2
Other Receivables                      3.2          3.5        3.5         3.5         3.5        3.5
Current Investments               95.2       294.4       406.1       513.3      606.4       675.8
Loans and Investment
TL Loans                           1,343.2     1,421.5    1,515.5    1,627.5    1,762.5    1,924.5
Foreign Currency Loans               581.1     1,291.9    1,874.1    2,635.5    3,313.6    3,877.5
Financial Investments                  0.7          0.6        0.5         0.4         0.3        0.2
Equity Investments                    47.7         59.0       70.0        83.2       99.0       118.1
Total Loans and
Investments                     1,972.7      2,773.0    3,460.1    4,346.6    5,175.4    5,920.3
Less: Provision for
losses                        -             6.8        14.9       23.9        33.4        43.3
Net Total Loans
and Investments                  1,972.7     2,766.2    3,445.2    4,322.7    5,142.0    5,877.0
Net Fixed Assets                      30.2         33.2       32.0        30.8        29.6       28.4
Total Assets                  2,098.1      3,093.8    3,883.3    4,866.8    5,778.0    6,581.2
LIABILITIES
Short-Term Debts
Tax Payable on Previous
Year's Profit                       37.8         50.4       59.6        68.6        74.0       77.0
Dividend Payable from
Previous Year's Profit              -           87.4       116.8       138.0      158.7       171.5
Bonuses for Management and
Personnel from Current
Profit                               1.7          2.3        2.7         3.1        3.3         3.5
Accrued Interest and
Miscellaneous Debt                  30.0        49.1        67.9        92.2      114.6       134.8
Current Debt                     69.5        189.2       247.0       301.9      350.6       386.8
Medium-Long-Term Debts
Shareholder Banks' Funds             712.0       412.0       412.0       412.0      412.0       412.0
AID Loans                            105.8       103.6        99.5        95.4       91.3        87.2
Central Bank                         390.7       469.0       563.0       675.0      810.0       972.0
Total Turkish Currency Debts      1,208.5        984.6    1,074.5    1,182.4    1,313.3    1,471.2
AID (Currency foreign
currency)                         225.5        323.4       236.4       158.0       93.4        49.7
EIB (Current)                        355.6       579.8       507.2       424.0      328.8       232.2
EIB (Prospective)                     -           80.8       327.0       641.2      862.8       817.6
IBRD                                  -          105.7       387.1       750.7    1,148.2    1,276.4
French Export Credits                 -          122.4       244.7       386.7      460.2       649.6
US Eximbank                           -            79.8      171.7       274.9       349.9      396.8
Other Prospective foreign
currency loans                     -            -           -           -          70.3       455.2
Sub-total                       581.1      1,291.9    1,874.1    2,635.5    3,313.6    3,877.5
Medium-Long Term Loans             1,789.6     2,276.5    2,948.6    3,817.9    4,626.9    5,348.7
Termination Indemnities                2.2          3.2        4.2         5.2         6.2        7.2
Equity
Paid in capital                      100.0       400.0       400.0       400.0      400.0       400.0
Legal Reserves                        33.8         49.4       70.3        95.1      123.5       154.2
Reserves for current yeas             15.6         20.9       24.8        28.4       30.7        31.9
Dividend available for
distribution                        87.4       116.8       138.0       158.7      171.5       178.4
Total Equity                     236.8       587.1       633.1       682.2      725.7       764.5
Total Liabilities             2,098.1      3,056.0    3,832.9    4,807.2    5,709.4    6,507.2
Long-Term Debt/Equity Ratio            7.6          3.9        4.7         5.6        6.4         7.0



Action Plan ProJect Pipeline
Garments/Making Up       Spinning        Weaving        DPF       Accessories       TOTAL       Allocation
TSKB               10.2                 13.8           29.9         16.1                         70.0          60.1
SYKB                1.8                  1.3            4.8          3.8          2.2            13.9          14.9
TOTAL            12.0                 15.1           32.7         19.9          2.2            83.9          75.0
Allocation       17.0                  6.0           20.0         16.0          3.0            75.0
Note:  Figures refer only to amount of project financing to be supplied by intermediaries.
Source:  Action Plans - Texts and Analysis, Project File No. B.12



ANNEX 8
Page 1
TRAINING, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Transfer to the Sector
1.        Much of the divergence in Turkey between present and potential effi-
ciency of the textiles and garment industry is rooted in avoidable production
problems in the technical and industrial engineering area (see main text,
paras 3.22-3.23).  Better training at the supervision and middle management
levels, and the greater availability of practical sources of technical assis-
tance, both local and foreign, could significantly help to cure these defi-
ciencies. There is also a widespread need for practical assistance in export
marketing, especially for the garments/making up sub-sector (see main text,
para 3.28). To help meet these needs a technical assistance, training and
technology component is proposed for this project. This component has two
elements: one, "Local Training and Consultancy Extension Service", seeks to
begin developing a practical Turkish capability for diagnosis and on-the-job
training in the above fields since no existing institutions provide such a
service; the other, the "Training and Technical Assistance and Technology
Fund," removes the foreign exchange constraint to technical assistance and
training from foreign firms, now the principal supplier of these resources.
The two elements are intended to complement and reinforce each other as
discussed below.
(a) Local Training and Consultancy Extension Service
2.        Overview of the Program.  This element, with an estimated foreign
exchange cost of about $1,200,000, seeks to institutionalize within Turkey
a practical capability in the fields broadly defined as production management
and cost control for problem diagnosis, trouble shooting and in-plant train-
ing to improve machine, labor and other factor productivity involving pri-
marily the application of technical, industrial engineering and related
skills. There would also be provision for export marketing assistance in the
case of garments/making-up and for textiles. The textile sector program would
consist of two parts:  (1) an in-plant consultancy, training, and follow-up
service would involve sending a small team for several weeks to a participat-
ing factory to survey its operations, detect conditions which are reducing
its efficiency, assist management in making changes in its operations and
provide on-the-spot training of supervisors and foremen related to the pro-
posed changes; (2) an industrial engineering training and follow-up service
would run courses within individual factories with groups of participants from
several factories to develop capabilities in techniques such as work study,
production planning and control, preventative maintenance, etc. For the
garment/making-up sub-sector there would be (1) a single industrial engineer-
ing consultancy, training and follow-up service, involving a more complete
consultancy and training service than for textiles, because garment industry
middle management is likely to be less specialized; and (2) an export market-
ing service, utilizing a resident marketing advisor supported by short-term
specialists to help focus export promotional efforts and provide practical
marketing assistance to individual firms.



- 53 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
3.        The capability to provide these services would be developed over a
five year period utilizing a core staff of five experienced foreign consultants
who would be resident for periods of one to two years. In the process of pro-
viding the above services they would eventually train approximately fourteen
carefully selected Turkish counterparts, already technically trained and expe-
rienced, in the skills of consultancy, training, and technical assistance. 1/
Appendix 1 presents a chart of the services expected to be provided (see also
Project File B.13). The program would be conducted in two phases: an initial
pilot phase of two years during which about forty firms (twenty each in
garments and textiles) could be assisted; and a three year maturing phase in
which an additional 120 firms could be reached. To encourage participation in
this project services would be provided free during the pilot period but an
increasing scale of fees would be charged thereafter with the objective of
making the service self-supporting after five years.
4.        Criteria of Eligibility.  Eligibility for the service would be based
upon: (a) interest in participation and (b) a technical judgment that a
factory would significantly benefit from the service. Firms which have pre-
viously borrowed from the Technology Fund (paras 9-12) would be ineligible
unless TSKB judges that there is no overlap. The final selection of partic-
ipating factories would be carefully made, after preliminary plant visits by
the consultants, to ensure that the demonstration effect of the service would
be maximized. Though the extension service in principle will be open to all
firms in the sector, in practice it is expected that a large portion will be
existing or prospective clients of the financial intermediaries. As a result
of the service's diagnostic work, it is hoped that many factories would be
motivated to follow-up this service either by undertaking programs of moderni-
zation and renewal requiring equipment, or by seeking additional or more
specialized technical assistance. To facilitate such follow-up, the inter-
mediaries will give priority to firms that have received assistance under the
extension service which apply for loans either for equipment (see main text,
paras 4.06-4.19) or for further technical assistance under the Technology
Fund.
5.        Administration of the Program.  The delivery agency for this program
during the commitment period of the loan will be TSKB. Although a number
of other possible local institutions were considered, TSKB's large and expe-
          rienced technical staff, its close touch with textile and garment sector
needs, and its general management quality and proven capability to live up to
its commitments, best qualify it to launch a program of this importance and
magnitude and to supervise it during the initial pilot period. TSKB will
consult with SYKB and industry representatives to obtain policy guidance and
strengthen contact with industry. It will establish, in consultation with
SYKB and the consultants a mechanism for selecting beneficiary firms.
A detailed plan for the program will be submitted to the Bank for review and
1/   It is not expected that the functions of the export promotion advisor
would be institutionalized due to the nature of the function.



- 54 -                         ANNEX 8
Page 3
approval prior to disbursement. Since this type of activity is peripheral
to its primary lending functions, TSKB has agreed to accept responsibility
to launch the project and to administer it for three years. There will be a
review of the program within 2 years, involving the Bank, the Government,
TSKB, SYKB, and industry representatives to evaluate it, to decide whether it
should be continued after the commitment period of the loans, and to propose
subsequent institutional and financial arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
TSKB will prepare, in advance of this review, a report on the effectiveness of
the services provided, on institutional and financial alternatives, and to
recommend a plan for transition. Possible successor arrangements include the
creation of a separate consulting agency owned by some combination of the
development banks and the textile industry, or full control by one or more of
the industry associations including the Garment Manufacturers Export Union,
the Chambers of Commerce, and the Textile Employer's Union. The Government-
owned Sumerbank Textile, Training and Research Center is also a possibility
if its organization and objectives are re-oriented to serve private as well
as public sector needs. TSKB's agreement to provide semi-annual reports on
progress in recruitment of consultants and in their provision of services is
included in a supplementary letter.
6.        Funding.  Since the program will be offered free to participating
firms during the initial period and at reduced rates thereafter, until
adequate demand at full costs develops, funding will be needed for the Turkish
lira costs (primarily the salaries of Turkish counterparts) estimated at TL 36
million during the three year commitment period of the loan and at TL 64
million for the following two years when it is targeted that the program would
be able to become self-supporting. The Government has agreed in principle to
provide financial support for the program for which utilization of a portion
of the spread between the interest rate paid by the Government as a guarantee
fee is envisaged. A portion of the spread of 1 percentage point per annum
would be required for 7 years, plus amounts sufficient to service the foreign
exchange portion of the cost of the extension service. The foreign exchange
cost, estimated at US$1,200,000 would be financed as a sub-loan to TSKB for 7
years with 3 year grace period.
7.        Selection of Consultants.  To help ensure that the potential of this
element for improving industry efficiency is realized, the following will be
required:
(a) Bank review and acceptance of resident consultants;
they will be selected by and be responsible to TSKB,
with appointment of the initial two consultants for
weaving/knitting and for garments/making up as a
condition of loan effectiveness to ensure that the
program is promptly launched.
(b) Employment by TSKB of a consultant acceptable to the
Bank as a condition of effectiveness for an initial
two to three month period, and for assignments there-
after when the program is reviewed; he should have



- 55 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4
practical experience in the proposed extension ser-
vice and be able to develop a program outline,
prepare detailed terms of reference, screen candi-
dates, and provide general advisory assistance.
8.        Risks.  Given the experimental nature of this component, it must be
recognized that there remains a risk that it might not meet all of its objec-
tives. One risk is that a suitable permanent delivery agency cannot be
identified until after the commitment period of the loan. The mid-term review
procedure (para 5) is designed to prevent this. A second risk is that local
counterparts might be hired away after their training by private industry,
rather than remaining with the service. In anticipation of this, salaries
budgeted for local counterparts have been set at attractive initial levels (TL
1 million/year in mid-1978 prices) and real annual average increases of 5%
have been assumed. Furthermore, there is the long-term possibility that,
though the organization proves its worth, it fails to become financially
sufficient after a five year period as now projected. Continued allocation of
a portion of the interest rate spread may have to be used to partially sub-
sidize the service even after five years, if its establishment is slow but it
continues to look promising. While these risks are substantial, the model is
not new; similar extension services have been successfully established to
serve segments of the textile sector in a number of other countries (U.K.,
Pakistan, India). The component can be justified simply on the basis of the
training and technical assistance rendered for which net benefits in terms of
foreign exchange saved could be substantial, regardless of whether this
capability can be successfully institutionalized.
(b) Training, Technical Assistance and Technology Fund
9.        Scope.  Since the local extension service described above would
cover only a portion of the sector's needs even after a 5 year period, and
since the scope of its services would necessarily be limited by the size of
its staff and its lack of specialization, the textile industry will continue
to require access to training, technical assistance and technology from
foreign sources.  To help remove the present foreign exchange constraint to
such access, an amount of US$3.3 million would be allocated to a second
element of this component called the "Training, Technical Assistance and
Technology Fund" from which any creditworthy firm in the sector could borrow,
provided there were no duplication of assistance from the Local Training and
Extension Service, as discussed below, para 11. Eligible categories of
assistance would relate broadly to the applied fields of production and
industrial engineering, financial control, research and development, pollution
control, as well as export marketing and would include: training of Turkish
engineering or technical personnel abroad; hiring of foreign technicians,
engineers and consultants; purchase of equipment related to technical adjust-
ment and quality upgrading such as laboratory and testing equipment. Loan
maturities would normally be for three to five years and TSKB has agreed
to limit them to no more than six years. The loan agreement sets an upper
limit of $250,000 to prevent pre-emption by large borrowers, but typical loans



- 56 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5
are expected to average about $100,000. There would be no lower limit, to
allow worthwhile proposals for individual staff training or for high priority
short-term consultants to be assisted.  Priority will be given to applicant
firms on the following basis: (a) firms seeking to increase productivity and
efficiency of existing equipment; (b) firms which can show that the technical
assistance will lead to entry into or expansion or upgrading of substantial
export sales. Within the above categories, special priority will be given to
firms with a plan for technical assistance developed as a result of prior
assistance from the local extension service (para 7).
10.       Administration of the Program.  As with the Local Training and
Extension Service, this element will be administered by TSKB and will utilize
for its administration essentially the same experienced technical staff as for
project promotion and appraisal in the textile sector. Appraisal and monitor-
ing procedures would be kept simple, however, and would involve mainly an
assurance of the appropriateness of the project to the company's objectives,
its eligibility under the criteria of this component and the creditworthiness
of the borrower. Bank supervision will be limited to ex post monitoring for
which TSKB has agreed to furnish copies in English of every third appraisal,
and semi-annual progress reports on commitments, approvals and status of
projects in the pipeline.
11.       Eligibility.  Under the technical assistance set-up envisaged, a
firm could be assisted under both elements. It could for example receive an
initial diagnosis of problems and on-the-job training at a nominal fee under
the local extension service, followed by more extensive and more specialized
follow-up services from foreign consultants for which it would borrow under
this element. TSKB intends to encourage the financing of such follow-up
services by this Fund. Whenever a firm has been initially assisted by the
extension service TSKB will make a judgment, recorded in its appraisal
report, that no overlap in types of services received will occur.
12.       Conditions for Utilization of the Fund.  While the exact demand for
this fund is difficult to ascertain, candidates for 30% of the total, have
already been identified by TSKB in the course of promotional efforts it has
already unidertaken. To further ensure that the fund will be utilized, agree-
ment to the following conditions has been reached:
(a) TSKB will undertake further promotional efforts to
bring this facility to the attention of industry,
in close cooperation with the Local Training and
Consultancy Extension Service but utilizing
its own staff as needed. This program will be
based on a promotional plan submitted in advance to
the Bank for review, and on which semi-annual
progress reports would be made.
(b) TSKB will cooperate closely with SYKB and give
equal priority on a first come, first serve



- 57 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6
basis to clients referred by SYKB, provided that
eligibility criteria are met.
If this promotional effort succeeds in developing greater demand than supply,
this element would be eligible for additional funds from the unallocated
category of the equipment component, with prior Bank approval, upon documen-
tation of the additional amounts needed.
.



Guidelines for Consultancy and Training Staff
To be decided after
TSKB                            review
Institutional Responsibility                            PHASE 1                            PHASE 2
Ycar 1       Year 2         Year 3       Year 4       Year 5
TEXTILES                                                                                    j
1.  In-Plant Management
(a) Weaving/Knitting    Foreign             --b__-_____
Local                                         --------------  ----------____   ______   _______ __
(b) Dyeing/Printing/    Foreign                         K--------1-
Finishing            Local                          ______          ------------   ----------------------
Local                               [-            - - - - - -  - -- - - - -  - - -
(c) Spinning             Foreign                                        -----------
Local                                         _____--_____--____-_____--_____-___
Local                                                     ______ ______r_____-___
2.  Industrial Engineering  Foreign                                         ___-___ ___  ___ _______1
Local                                         -----------.-----------I------------
Local
GARIMENT/MAKING-UP
1.  Industrial Engineering  Foreign
Local             - - -  - - - - - -  - -       -  - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - -
Local             ----    - --------- _____ ___ _------------------------
Local                                         _____                     ----------
2.  Marketing                 Foreign           -----------------
Local             --------- ------------      -   -  -  - -   - !------------------
Local                   _                                              l
Foreign                     _
Foreign                       _
Foreign
Foreign                                                                l
AD HOC Consultant        Foreign
Number of staff during each 6 mo. period           Deadline for program review
Foreign consultants                          3      4     4    4          2      2     1      1     0      0
Local consultants                            3      4     7     7        11    11    13    13    14    14
(t      +                                                                .,  ,r



Annex 9
- 59 -                           Page 1
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports and Studies on the Sector
1. Cotton Textile Industries in Turkey and in the Common Market
Countries TSKB, January 1976
2. Wool, Wool Yarn and Wool Textiles, TSKB, April 1976
3. The Turkish Textile Industry and its Export Prospects,
Werner International, Inc. 1976 (2 Volumes)
4. Export-Oriented Industries and Small-Scale Industries in Turkey,
Industrial Sector Mission, August 1977 Bank Report No. 1359-TU
5. Textile Exports - Project Identification Mission, December 30, 1977
6. Textile Sector, TSKB, April 1978 (3 Volumes)
7. Developing Countries' Exports of Textiles and Clothing: Perspective
and Policy Choices, Donald B. Keesing (White Cover, report by Bank
Staff, May 1978)
8. Fourth Five Year Plan, "The Textile and Clothing Industry"
October 1978 State Planning Organization
9. Staff Appraisal Report on Proposed Thirteenth Loan to TSKB
Bank Report No. 2337-TU
B. Selected Working Papers
1.  Textile Sector Structure and Performance -- Selected Tables
2. The Financial Performance of Textile Firms in TSKB's Portfolio
*                   (Working Memorandum)
3.  Investment Estimates -- Notes and Supporting Tables
4. The Estimated Age Distribution of Spinning Equipment -- Selected Tables
5. Productivity of Turkish Mills
6. Technical Assistance Requirements of the Turkish Textile Industry
and Review of Training Institutions (Working Memorandum)



Annex 9
- 60 -                        Page 2
7. Technical Assistance Requirements of the Turkish Garment Industry
and Review of Training Institutions
8.  Impact of Incentive and Organizational/Administrative Framework for
Exports of Textiles and Made-Up Articles
9. TSKB and SYKB: Comparative Indicators of Size and Volume of Operations
10. Environmental Guidelines applicable to textiles prepared by World Bank
Office of Environmental Affairs
11. SYKB: Detailed tables of past operations, financial statements, and
forecasts of operations, income statements, balance sheets, cash flow
and resource requirements.
.



BULGARIA                                                                    a c k                            Sea                                                                    U.S.S.R.
r'\O ,  ,KIRKLARELI-
U J             TEKI7DAK                            -                          KASTAMONU   'IN  P
~~o'1'~~     ZONGULDA               0 
o                                                          OR-U                                                     KARS S
,*                                                                                           NMI,,AKKALE  1L1/-\   /                   WB   U  R                     MUS A  x/ o  t \ +  8  4 >   ro  K  g   GUMU,S  *_IR  40  -
USAK    AFYON~p                                              EHLQ< KAYSEAA
.IMI ,K, ,        <.N                           AL%Y N rAA                                                                                                                  A                            .7A>M ri=j)t A / N
Lu                                                                                                                                 ERZURUM~~~~~~~ UF  -N                  
L IK           SHT I   RKEY
0                                                                                                   7          DEVELOPED PROVINCES ANOMUNICIPALITIES
ESKISEHIR  ANKARA  0                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PANAR  NDISEDEU
IR EH_RASEMI DEVELOPED PROVINCES
Ale d i/erzr an ean                 Se a                                                                                                      rL      LEAST DEVELOPEDRFEGIONS
-5                                                                                         S/                      Y R I A                               ZM!R |MTSAKIB REGIONALBRANCHOFFICES
SCYPRUS                                                                                  TB KR ADMINISTRATIVE DISTRICTS
t   )                                                                           REGIDNALBOUNDARIES
O          iOO          200         3,00                        <                                                                             -    PROVINCIAL RDUNDARIES                                W
NILDMETERS                                                                        0J                                                PROVINCIAL CAPITALS 
O        SO        iOO       IO         0-'   INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                  >_
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.
Ml 1i4fS 1-                                                                        Tg c/ \=eYOgi a_ 
_~~~~~~~~~~JEIL   I                                                             0                  I                RAIlA



