CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1755 TU
Loan Agreement
(Private Sector Textiles Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI A.O.
Dated September 17, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1755 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 17, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI A.O. (hereinafter called
the Borrower), a company established and operating under the laws
of the Republic of Turkey.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set foith herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan or a credit made or proposed to
be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an
Investment Enterprise for an investment Project and "free-limit
sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement.
(b) "Investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds
of the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(c)  "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an investment.
(d)  "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.


﻿-2-
(e) "Liras" and "TL" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(f) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(g) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
(h) "Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower dated
March 16, 1963, as amended to the time of this Agreement.
(i) "Export-Oriented Project" means an Investment Project
in the private textile sector in Turkey of which it is estimated
that, in case of expansions or improvements of Investment Enter-
prises' facilities the equivalent of not less than 40%, and in all
other cases not less than 30%, of the output of the facilities to
be provided or improved under the Investment Project will be
exported in each year after the Project is expected to have
reached full capacity.
(j) "TSKB" means Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S.,
governed by applicable laws of the Guarantor, as amended from
time to time.
(k) "TSKB Loan Agreement" means the Agreement of even
date herewith between TSKB and the Bank.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million
dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account: (i) for amounts expended by the Borrower
for an Investment Project or, if the Bank shall so agree, for
amounts to be expended by the Borrower for an Investment Project,
to finance the reasonable foreign-currency cost of goods and
services required under a sub-loan or investment for the Invest-
ment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is requested;


﻿-3-
provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of
a sub-loan or investment unless: (A) the sub-loan or invest-
ment shall have been approved by the Bank, or (B) the sub-loan
shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account; and (ii) on account
of expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
to finance the reasonable foreign exchange cost of a training
program in exports emphasizing textiles pursuant to Section 3.01
(a) (ii) of this Agreement up to the equivalent of $100,000;
provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made prior to the
Bank's approval to such program pursuant to Section 3.08 (a) of
this Agreement.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $750,000 equiva-
lent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such
Investment Project, this amount being subject to change from time
to time as determined by the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures
made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject
to the Bank's approval or authorization, or in respect of an
investment, if such expenditures shall have been made before
the date of this Agreement or more than ninety days prior to
the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such
sub-loan or investment the application and information required
by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, under a free-limit
sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan
the request and information required by Section 2.03 (b).
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than
a free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project,
both in the English language, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan
or investment, including the schedule of amortization of the
sub-loan or of repayment to the Bank of the amount of the Loan to
be used for the investment; (iii) an evaluation of the eligibility


﻿-4-
of the Investment Project on the basis of the criteria specified
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (iv) a detailed analysis of the
export potential of an Investment Enterprise in case of Export-
Oriented Projects; and (v) such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a descrip-
tion of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and an evaluation and, if applicable, an
analysis pursuant to paragraphs (a) (iii) and (iv) above, respec-
tively; and (ii) the terms and conditions of such free-limit
sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before December 31, 1982.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%). per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) (i)
hereof in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Column 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall be
amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required to:


﻿-5-
(i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate of the
amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the schedules
of repayment to the Bank in respect of investments, which have
been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account
under Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take into account
any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions
and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section 2.10
of this Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall
be made on May 15 and November 15 in each year. Such amendments of
the said Column 1 of Schedule 1 shall include amendments to the
table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i)
shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of this
Agreement; and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and
interest or approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its
prior approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by
the Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-
loan.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 (ii) hereof in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Column 2 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an
investment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred,
assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the
Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the
Bank on the next following interest payment date, together with
the premiums specified in Column 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agree-
ment, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of
such sub-loan or investment or part thereof and not theretofore
repaid to the Bank.


﻿(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding to the
outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of the sub-loan
so repaid or disposed of; and (ii) in the case of an investment,
pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting
amounts to be repaid on account of such investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in the Republic of Turkey as will contribute to the development,
modernization, increase in productivity and export capacity of the
private textiles sector of the country. The Project consists: (i)
in the financing of specific development projects including
without limitation a reasonable number of Export-Oriented Pro-
jects, through loans to, and investments in, private enterprises
in the textile sector of the Republic of Turkey, in furtherance of
the ccrporate purposes of the Borrower; and (ii) in the carrying
out of a training program in exports emphasizing textiles for the
Borrower's staff.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Statutes and, once approved, the
Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will
be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and
to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
investment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project


﻿-7-
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) require that: (A) the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of
the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of the parties rendering them, and (B) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) examine, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and site, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (A) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice, and (B) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) in the case of Export-Oriented Projects,
require that the Investment Enterprise shall meet export targets
referred to in Section 1.02 (i) of this Agreement, except as the
meeting of such targets by exporting at or above cost is not
possible or prevented by factors which are beyond the Investment
Enterprise's control; (vi) in the case of Projects in the dyeing,
printing and finishing sub-sector, require that the Investment
Enterprise provide data on its current and projected effluent
discharge and, if necessary, prepare and carry out a plan to
reduce the effluent discharge to reasonable limits and values;
(vii) require Investment Enterprises with existing textile
facilities, if possible, to improve the efficiency of their
operations to reasonable degree and in accordance with a
timetable and obtain, if necessary, technical assistance for
this purpose; (viii) obtain such information as the Bank or
the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condi-
tion of the Investment Enterprise; and (ix) suspend or termi-
nate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enter-
prise to perform its obligations under its contract with the
Borrower.


﻿(b) The Borrower sha.l exercise its rights in relation
to aach Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans
and investments.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Government Loan Agreement and other agree-
ments under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the
disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its agencies or
others, for relending, investment or management. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which would have the
effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving any material
provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, when making loans or investments for projects
the value of whose fixed assets shall exceed the equivalent
of $750,000, the Borrower shall ensure that such loans or invest-
ments shall produce an economic rate of return, which in the
opinion of the Bank shall normally be above at least 15%. The
economic rate of return shall be calculated in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Calculations of Economic Rates of Return of
DFC Sub-Projects" dated June 4, 1974, prepared by the Bank's
Cental Projects staff.
Section 3.07. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall use its best efforts to: (a) approve foreign
exchange financing for projects, whether or not financed out of
the proceeds of this Loan, in 1980 through 1982 of at least: (i)
30% of its total financing in the textile sector for projects
meeting the requirements specified in Section 1.02 (i) of this
Agreement; (ii) 80% of its financing in the garments/making-up


﻿-9-
sub-sector for projects meeting the requirements specified in
Section 1.02 (i) of this Agreement; and (b) allocate out of the
proceeds of this Loan at least the equivalent of the following
amounts to the sub-sectors hereinafter specified: (i) $3,000,000
for garments/making-up and knitting; (ii) $1,500,000 for spinning;
(iii) $4,000,000 for weaving; (iv) $2,500,000 for dyeing, printing
and finishing; and (v) $1,000,000 for accessories.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the training
program with respect to exports emph6sizing textiles specified in
Section 3.01 (a) (ii) under terms satisfactory to the Bank,
including provision for procuring the services of any experts as
necessary for on-the-job training, seminars and ad hoc consultan-
cies, and operational travel by the Borrower's staff; and furnish
to the Bank for its approval, prior to requesting withdrawals
from the Loan Account on account of such program: (i) the detailed
description of the program; (ii) any technical assistance agree-
ments between the Borrower and organizations experienced in export
promotion; and (iii) the curricula vitae and terms of reference
and employment of any individual experts to be hired by the
Borrower for on-the-job training.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank such other
information, all in English, pertaining to the training program
and the study referred to in Section 3.01 (a) (ii), of suci. scope
and in such detail, as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
Section 3.09. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) only commit itself during the years 1980 through 1982 to
finance any investment project in the Turkish textile sector out
of proceeds other than this Loan if the project meets the export
targets and the eligibility criteria specified in Section 1.02 (i)
and Schedule 3 of this Agreement, respectively; and
(b) appraise any enterprise with existing textile facilities
with respect to the efficiency of its operations, require the
enterprise, if possible, to improve efficiency to a reasonable
degree and in accordance with a timetable and obtain, if neces-
sary, technical assistance for that purpose.
Section 3.10. The Borrower and TSKB shall conclude a protocol
satisfactory to the Borrower, TSKB, the Guarantor and the Bank to


﻿- 10 -
ensure close cooperation of the Borrower and TSKB in their acti-
vities in the Turkish textile sector, and such protocol may be
changed or amended only after consulting with the Guarantor and
the Bank.
Section 3.11. Not later than two years after this Agreement
has become effective, the Borrower, TSKB, the Guarantor and the
Bank shall review the execution and initial operation of the
program in respect of Section 3.01 (a) (iii) of the TSKB Loan
Agreement, its cost and the benefits derived from it, agree, if
necessary, upon steps to improve said program and financial,
institutional and other arrangements for the administration of
said program after three years from the effectiveness of this
Agreement.
Section 3.12. Not later than December 31, 1979, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank for its approval a copy of a draft
Statement of Policy in English and promptly adopt such Statement
of Policy after the Bank's approval.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than five
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors in English, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank in English such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as' the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets of
the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt, such lien
will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the crea-
tion of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien
shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any subsi-
diary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such pro-
perty; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall ocherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be temporarily exceeded, promptly take all
such reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall notify the Bank prior to
making any repayment in advance of maturity in respect of bor-
rowings from the Guarantor or its agencies for medium and long-
rm relending, or from any foreign and local source and shall not
make any such repayment which in the judgment of the Bank would
materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of
such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its


﻿- 12 -
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
seven times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of -this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred and outstanding: (i)
under a loan contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement)
on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement; and
(ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of liras debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt or in the absence of such rate of exchange,
at a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries, including any debt owed by the Borrower to its
shareholders, but excluding any debt owed by the Borrower to any
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary
or of any subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from charges in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including liras) used in its operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their


﻿- 13 -
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Borrower and its subsidiaries, and the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Borrcwer and its sub-
sidiaries, and the progress of the Project.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.
Section 4.10. Except as the Guarantor, the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes that
it will pay to the Guarantor, until such time as the entire
principal amount of the Loan and the interest and other charges
thereon shall have been paid, including any premium on prepay-
ment, a fee equal to the amount by which any payment of interest
on a sub-loan made by the Borrower exceeds, as and when each such
payment becomes due, a positive spread of 2-1/2%.
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall: (a) increase its paid-in
capital by not less than TL300,000,000 not later than January 1,
1980; and (b) retain at least 5% of its annual net income up to a
maximum of 2% of its loan and equity portfolio as a reserve to
protect itself against losses from bad debts.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Statutes and, once
approved, the Statement of Policy without the Bank's consent;
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and


﻿-14-
(d) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the fillowing additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph
(b) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, namely, that the TSKB Loan Agreement has been duly
executed and delivered on behalf of TSKB and the Bank and all
conditions precedent to effectiveness of the TSKB Loan Agreement
have been met.
Section 6.02. The date of December 17, 1979, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 15 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi A.O.
Barborus Bulvari 41
Be§ikta§ Istanbul
Turkey
Cable address:                      Telex:
YATIRIMBANK                         SYKB .26263 TR
Istanbul
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SINAI YATIRIM VE KREDI BANKASI A.O.
By /s/ Alaeddin T. YbrUk
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due     Column 1  Column 2  (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 1983           24,200    12,500           36,700
November 15, 1983     112,100    12,500          124,600
May 15, 1984          420,600    12,500          433,100
November 15, 1984     591,900    12,500          604,400
May 15, 1985          773,700    12,500          786,200
November 15, 1985     922,700    12,500          935,200
May 15, 1986          960,000    12,500          972,500
November 15, 1986     960,000    12,500          972,500
May 15, 1987          960,000                    960,000
November 15, 1987     960,000                    960,000
May 15, 1988          960,000                    960,000
November 15, 1988     960,000                    960,000
May 15, 1989          960,000                    960,000
November 15, 1989     960,000                    960,000
May 15, 1990          948,000                    948,000
November 15, 1990     860,100                    860,100
May 15, 1991          727,500                    727,500
November 15, 1991     545,700                    545,700
May 15, 1992          362,500                    362,500
November 15, 1992     215,000                    215,000
May 15, 1993          179,200                    179,200
November 15, 1993     179,200                    179,200
May 15, 1994          179,200                    179,200
November 15, 1994     178,400                    178,400
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures *in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 of the Loan Agree-
ment:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years                     1.60%
before maturity
More than three years but                     3.15%
not more than six
years before maturity
More than six years but                       5.80%
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years but                    6.85%
not more than thirteen
years before maturity
More than thirteen years                      7.90%
before maturity


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment ot the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Section
3.05."
(2) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If: (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or
(b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03
of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted
under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall
have been received by the Bank in respect of any portion
of the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been
denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the
Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant
to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the
Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Eligibility Criteria for
Investment Projects
Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Investment Projects shall meet the following criteria:
I.   General
New plants shall meet the daily maximum effluent limitations
specified in the Annex to this Schedule.
II. Individual Sub-Sectors
In addition, Investment Projects in the individual sub-
sectors shall meet the following criteria:
(1) Garments, making-up and knitting
Any viable Investment Project shall be eligible with
priority to those expected to export any part of their
production.
(2) Spinning
Investment Projects shall meet at least one of the
following criteria:
(a) the Investment Project, through quality improvement
of production or upgrading of product lines, can be
expected to enable Investment Enterprises to meet
export targets specified in Section 1.02 (i) of
this Agreement;
(b) facilities to be provided under the Investment
Project are required for the production of threads
and other key input in garment exports; or
(c) the Investment Enterprise substantially modernizes
the facilities of an Investment Enterprise pro-
ducing woolen or worsted yarns or removes bottle-
necks of the Investment Enterprise's manufacturing
process.


﻿- 20 -
(3) Weaving
Investment Projects shall meet at least one of the
following criteria:
(a) Investment Projects shall meet the export targets
specified in Section 1.02 (1) of this Agreement;
(b) the Investment Project constitutes the forward
integration of a spinning mill with underutilized
capacity and this is expected to lead to sub-
stantial overall improvement of efficiency;
(c) the   Investment Project substantially modernizes
the Investment Enterprise's facilities or removes
bottlenecks of its manufacturing process; or
(d) facilities to be provided under the Investment
Project produce linings of export standard or other
key input in garment exports.
(4) Dyeing, printing and finishing
Investment Projects of existing Investment Enterprises
shall not worsen the environmental impact of their opera-
tions. In addition, all Investment Projects shall meet at
least one of the following criteria:
(a) Investment Projects shall meet the export targets
specified in Section 1.02 (i) of this Agreement;
(b) the Investment Project constitutes the forward
integration of a weaving plant with underutilized
capacity and this is expected to lead to sub-
stantial overall improvement of efficiency;
(c) the Investment Project substantially modernizes the
Investment Enterprise's facilities or removes
bottlenecks of its manufacturing process;
(d) commission finishing facilities for knitting are to
be provided under the Investment Project to an
Investment Enterprise or such facilities are to be
provided to an Investment Enterprise located in an
area with a finishing shortage; or


﻿- 21 -
(e) facilities provided under the. Investment Project
produce linings of export standard or other key
input in export garments.
(5) Accessories
Any Investment Project under which facilities are to
be provided for the production of input into garment manufac-
turing and making-up for which local supply or quality is
inadequate shall be eligible.


﻿- 22 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 3
Daily Maximum Efflu    7,itmitations
Total
Process*           BOD5  TSS    COD   Chromium Phenol Sulfide
kg/metri ton final product
Wool
Scouring** *        10    32    138      --      0.10      0.20
Wool
Finishing           22    35    163     0.14     0.14      0.28
Dry
Processing****       1.4   1.4    2.80   -        --        --
Woven Fabric
Finishing            6.6  18     60     0.10     0.10      0.20
Knit Fabric
Finishing            5.02 22     60     0.10     0.10      0.20
Carpet Mills*****    7.8  11     70     0.04     0.04      0.08
Stock & Yard
Dyeing-
Finishing            6.8  17     85     0.12     0.12      0.24
*         For plants identified as Commission Finishing, multiply
effluent limitation by 2.
**        Limitations expressed as kg/m ton raw wool.
Oil and grease limitation is 7.2 kg/m ton raw wool.
Fecal coliform MPN limitations = 400 per 100 ml for all
processes.
Limitations expressed as kg/m ton primary backed carpet.
Note:     pH limitation for all effluent is 6 to 9.


