| RETURN To                                          ERESTRICTED
REPORTS      DESK          j;    g'flpy                  Report No. TO-540a
WITHIN              FILE [1  
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
"BALCARCE" LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ARGENTINA
June 28, 1967
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
February 1966
1 US dollar          = 190 Arg. pesos*
1 Arg. peso          = 0. 00526 US dollars
1, 000, 000 Arg. pesos = 5, 263 US dollars
May 1967
1 US dollar          = 350'Arg-.- pesos:
1 Arg. peso          = 0.0029 US dollars
1, 000, 000 Arg. pesos = 2, 857 US dollars
' This Project was appraised in January/February 1966.
All estimates and projections in this report are in
terms of Jan/Feb 1966 prices. At that time the
official exchange-rate was US$ 1.00  M$N 190.
Since then the Argentinian peso has been devalued,
in successive stages, to the present exchange rate
of US$ 1. 00 = M$N 350.



A R G E N T I N A
"BALCARCE" LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMrARY                                                            i
I.   INTRODUCTION                                                  1
II.  BACKGROUND                                                    1
A.  Importance of Livestock and Cattle in the Economy         1
B.  Past Development                                          2
C.  Government Policies and Programs                          2
D.  Production and MIlarket Prospects                         3
TII. PROJECT BACKGROUND                                            5
A.  Agricultural Credit and Price Policy                      5
B.  Credit Services                                           5
C.  Technical Services                                        6
D. Animal Health                                              6
E. The Project Area                                           7
IV. THE PROJECT                                                    8
A. Objectives                                                 8
B. Detailed Features                                          8
C.  Cost Estimates                                           11
D.  Proposed Financing                                       12
E.  Operating Results of the Project                         15
F.  Procurement                                              16
G. Marketing                                                 16
H.  Disbursement                                             17
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                                  17
VI.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                          18
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                              19
(See next page)
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which
visited Argentina in January/February 1966. The mission was composed
of Messrs. D. Stoops, H. von Oppenfeld, S. Asanuma (Bank) and
C. Eugenio, J. Fransen, R. Rossi (Consultants).



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   The Banking System
Table 1 - Banco de la Nacion: Credit Policies Regarding Certain Loans
to Agriculture and Livestock
Table 2 - Banco de la Nacion: Statement of Resources and Liabilities
Table 3 - Banco de la Nacion: Statement of Income and Expenses
2.   Project Area
T7a7be    -i Principal Physical Characteristics of Land
3.   Ranch Investment Costs
Tabes 1 and 2 - RaTih Investment Costs: Complete and Partial Ranch
Development
4.   Technical Services
§tTh 1 - Fiv7e-lear Cost and Foreign Exchange Component for Technical
Services to Project Farms
Table 2 - Estimated Cost and Foreign Exchange Requirements for Soil
and Drainage and Marketing Studies
5.   Projections Re: Farm Budgets
TaTThs 1 and 2 -Fiojected Income: Complete and Partial Ranch Development
Tables 3 and 4 - Projected Operating Income and Expenses: Complete and
Partial Ranch Development
Tables 5 and 6 - Financial Projection Re: Operations of a Representative
Farm, Complete and Partial Ranch Development
6.   Central Bank: Projections Re: Operations Concerning the IBRD Loan Projec
Tbe1        PFojecelow
Table 2 - Projected Statement of Assets and Liabilities
Table 3 - Projected Statement of Income and Expenses
7.   Herd Development Program
Tables 1 and 2 - Herd Development Program: Complete and Partial Ranch
Development
8.   Economic Impact   of the Project
Table 1 - Economic Benefits and Costs of the Project
Table 2 - Impact of the Project on Production and Exports
MAP - Project Area



ARGENTINA
"BALCARCE" LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUNARY
i.        The Government of Argentina has requested a Bank loan equivalent
to US$ 15.3 million to finance agricultural credit and technical services
for a livestock project.
ii.       The Project is the first phase of a long-term pasture and live-
stock development program. It consists of investment in farm development of
an estimated US$ 34 million and expenditure of US$ 5 million for technical
services to Project farmers and for related surveys of drainage and water
control, soils, and livestock marketing respectively. Results of these sur-
veys are essential to development during and beyond the first phase. The
proposed loan would cover 39 per cent of the total costs, and the balance
would be derived from national lending institutions (35 per cent), from the
Argentine Government (8 per cent), and from contributions of farmers and
contractors (18 per cent).
iii.      The Project is directed mainly at on-farm investments for pasture
improvement, fencing, watering and handling facilities, purchase of machiner,
and breeding cattle. It is expected that about 700 ranchers would partici-
pate. They would repay their loans in about 9 years, including 4 years of
grace.
iv.       The technical and economic soundness of lending to individual bor-
rowers would be assured by Project technicians of the Instituto Nacional de
Tecnologia Agropecuaria (INTA), under the guidance of an internationally
recruited Project Director. This Project staff would be responsible for
assisting ranchers in preparing farm development plans, for recommending
these to the lending agencies, for supervising the execution of the plans
for which loans would be made, and for rendering technical assistance to the
ranchers as needed.
v.        The loan would be administered by the Central Bank.   Initially,
the Banco de la Nacion would be the only agency lending to producers and
contractors. Later on, additional banks, both public and private, once qua'
ified by the Central Bank in agreement with the Bank, might also participate.
The funds lent by the participating banks would emanate to the extent of
50 per cent from the proposed loan. The remainder would be made available
from the presently immobilized obligatory reserves of the banks with the
Central Bank. The Central Bank has given its agreement to this procedure.
vi.       The Project is suitable for Bank financing under terms and condi-
tions as set out in the negotiated loan documents.



A R GE NT I NA
"BALCARCE" LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Argentina has applied for a Bank loan equivalent
to US$ 15.3 million to assist in financing the "Balcarcell Livestock Develop-
ment Project, which seeks to improve a segment of the Argentine beef cattle
industry. The Project was initially developed by an FAO project preparation
mission which visited Argentina in April/May 1965 and completed its report
in August 1965. In November 1965 the Argentine Government submitted a re-
vised project and a request for a Bank loan.
2.        This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which
visited Argentina in January/February 1966. The mission was composed of
Messrs. D. Stoops, H. von Oppenfeld, S. Asanuma (Bank) and C. Eugenio,
J. Fransen, R. Rossi (Consultants). A further mission consisting of Messrs.
C. Eugenio and Z. Kalim visited Argentina in early April 1967 to gather
current data; this mission ascertained that the feasibility of the Project,
as established in this report, had not been adversely affected as a result
of changes in cost-price relationships nor by changes in the exchange system
which took place in March 1967.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Importance of Livestock and Cattle in the Economy
3.        With more than one million square miles, stretching for 2,300 miles
from the tropics in the north to close to Antarctica in the south, Argentina
is the second largest country in South America. The Pampas, located within
the fertile crescent of a 400-mile radius around Buenos Aires, account for
two-thirds of the crops and three-fourths of Argentina's livestock produc-
tion.
4.        Of the 22 million population, one-third lives in Buenos Aires and
two-thirds in towns and cities. Population growth is estimated at 1.8 per
cent per annum. Although the agricultural sector employs only 20 per cent
of the labor force and produces some 16 per cent of the gross domestic pro-
duct, it generates more than 90 per cent of Argentina's exports. Meat and
livestock products alone account for more than 40 per cent of export revenue.
5.        The importance of cattle production transcends the agricultural
sector. Meat-packing and processing of livestock products lead all other
industries in value of production and number of workers employed. Given the
high per capita consumption, beef prices have an appreciable impact on the
cost of living.



- 2 -
B. Past Development
6.        Historically, livestock has been the dynamic force propelling
Argentina's economy.  Hides of wild cattle were the principal exports up to
1800. In the following 70 years, dried and salted beef, tallow and wool
gained increasing importance. The first export of fresh frozen beef in 1877
became a landmark for transformation to modern beef production. Demand for
high quality beef led to the introduction of European beef breeds and to
wide use of alfalfa-grass pasture for cattle fattening in the Pampas.
7.        Beef exports increased to one-half million tons in 1914 and reached
the one million ton mark in 1925. Total beef production has fluctuated
around the two million ton plateau which it approached for the first time in
1925. Exports have shown a declining trend since 1925, partly because of
competition from cash crops for the land area in the Pampas and partly be-
cause of growing local beef consumption.
8.        A drought in 1963 resulted in a decline of beef production from
2.6 million tons in 1963 to 2.0 million tons the following year; consequent-
ly measures designed to curb beef consumption, such as a ban on cattle
slaughter and a prohibition on the sale of beef in retail stores and res-
taurants two days each week, were introduced. Nevertheless, beef exports
were adversely affected and per capita consumption in Argentina itself fell
from 86 kgs in 1963 to 68 kgs in 1964. The output of beef rose in 1965 and
1966. Beef exports reached 455,000 tons in 1966, nearly 20 per cent more
than in the previous year. The measures aimed at reducing internal demand
for beef are no longer in force and per capita consumption stood at 80 kgs
during 1966.
C. Government Policies and Programs
9.        Since World War II the Argentine Government has initiated many
policy measures which have directly or indirectly affected farmers' incen-
tives in the beef industry. Broadly, these measures can be classified into
three categories, those affecting (i) the cost of inputs; (ii) the price of
outputs; and (iii) tax exemptions and other incentives to stimulate moderni-
zation and expansion of the cattle industry.
10.       On the input side, cattle producers have felt the adverse impact
of protection of locally manufactured goods, although some goods not manu-
factured locally have been available at reasonable prices. The cost of
labor has been relatively high in comparison with other South American coun-
tries, owing partly to a deliberate social improvement policy and partly to
a relative scarcity of workers in rural areas. The cost per man day is the
equivalent of nearly US$ 3.00, yet cattle output per man and per dollar
equivalent of wages in Argentina has been one of the highest in the world.
11.       On the output side, cattle marketing was relieved in 1959 from a
complex system of controls which had prevailed largely since World War II.
Direct governmental intervention since 1959 has consisted primarily of mea-
sures intended to curb local consumption in order to raise the share of
beef for exports. Simultaneously, however, other measures were introduced
which discriminated against beef exports, primarily in the form of special
export taxes and an over-valued currency. On the whole, urban beef consumerE



were subsidized, for various periods in the past, to the detriment of the
exporter and the producer. it
12.       To offset the ensuing disadvantages to the producers, the Govern-
ment granted investment incentives in the form of special tax deductions
for expenditure on investment items such as farm machinery and equipment,
fertilizers, high-grade seeds, pasture improvement, purchase and/or reten-
tion of breeding animals and young stock, and the construction of farm
buildings. Likewise, the Banco de la Nacion has, since 1965, been offering
loans to farmers under a "National Pasture Development Program". Although
this program appears to have increased credit availability to the agricul-
tural sector and to have met with a good response from producers, it has
no provisions for complementary investment in fencing, stock-watering and
stock-handling facilities and ranch mechanization.
13.       In summary, the policies intended to stimulate expansion and mod-
ernization of the cattle industry have been numerous and complex. Some are
still too new to permit assessment of their long-run effect. The Govern-
ment can hardly be criticized for lack of action. On the contrary, farmers
and ranchers criticize the all-too-frequent change of policy. This, they
claim, has undermined their confidence. Certainly the goal to expand
cattle numbers has not been achieved. Except for short-term fluctuations,
the national cattle herd has not expanded significantly in nearly 20 years
beyond the plateau of about 40 million head which it had reached in 1947.
D. Production and Market Prospects
14.       The national objective of substantially increased beef cattle
production can be attained in two ways: through expansion of the area
devoted to pastures, frequently at the expense of cash crops such as wheat,
maize and oil seeds, or through intensification of production on existing
land devoted to livestock production. The national economy cannot afford
to sacrifice production of economic cash crops, because of their importance
as earners of foreign exchange. The most economic means is therefore the
increase of cattle output per unit area through improved pasture and herd
management.
15.       Limited experiments and demonstrations with high-yielding species
of grasses and legumes and with improved herd management have been conduc-
ted by the Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Agropecuaria (INTA), in close
cooperation with UNDP/FAO technicians. Output has increased from 80 to 100
kgs per hectare of live weight cattle or sheep to a level of 300 kgs, not
1/ Argentina devalued its currency on March 13, 1967 to M$N 350.00 =
US$ 1.00.  Practically all meat exports, however, are still subject
to a retention levy of 25 per cent. The effective rate of exchange
to an exporter, therefore, is M$N 262 to the US dollar. The
Government has given assurances that it will maintain incentives
for the export of livestock products by following foreign exchange,
tax (including export taxes) and other policies that will result
in net returns to livestock producers and processors from sales
abroad that are attractive compared to returns from domestic sales.



only in experimental plots but on a ranch unit basis. This work has indica-
ted a large potential for increased production. Cattle productivity can
thus be increased through intensification, without a sacrifice in the output
of grain and oil seed crops. A project such as the proposed "Balcarce"
Livestock Development Project would demonstrate effectively that increased
productivity is technically feasible and financially rewarding in this
important area of Argentina.
16.       Farmers' decisions to expand or contract pasture areas and cattle
numbers have been influenced by changes in alternative returns from cash
grain cropping or from cattle r nching, which are reflected in changes of
the grain/cattle price ratio. U If favorable beef cattle prices and grain/
cattle price ratios could be sustained over a number of years, they could
set the stage for herd expansion and increased beef output, a trend that
appears to have been initiated in 1964. In the event that the world food
shortage raises grain prices appreciably above present levels, Argentinian
farmers could, by increasing productivity on grassland, shift some acreage
to grain cultivation and simultaneously maintain or increase cattle produc-
tion.  It would not be realistic, however, to expect farmers to proceed with
such intensification measures without adequate incentives for beef produc-
tion.
17.       Long and intermediate-term market prospects for Argentine beef
are good. Demand in the domestic market is strong as evidenced by the tra-
ditionally high per capita consumption. Beef imports in major importing
countries rose 7 per cent per annum from 1948/52 to 1962/64. Although the
rate of increase is expected to slow down, the intermediate and long-term
outlook for export of chilled and frozen Argentinian beef is good. Argen-
tina's beef exports to the European Economic Comnmunity (EEC) countries are
encountering some difficulties at present, due to the application of "varia-
ble charges" which affect Argentina most seriously during the main beef mar-
keting season in EEC countries: Argentina's efforts to obtain relaxation
of these restrictions have already resulted in some concessions on the part
of the EEC countries. In the long run it can be expected that demand for
high quality beef will outstrip production in EEC and other European coun-
tries. Although her share of the world beef market has declined from 27 per
cent in 1948/52 to 22 per cent in 1962/64, Argentina, because of her natural
advantage, can be expected to remain the world's leading single exporter.
18.       The time lag necessary for cattle herd build-up varies considerably
by country, depending upon existing production conditions and the current
status of its cattle industry. Argentina, because of its very favorable con-
ditions, is in a position to build up its herds within a minimum time lag
and thus take advantage of the favorable market outlook more quickly than
most countries. An integrated livestock development project has high prior-
ity in the Government's development plans. Its approval and implementation
could hardly be more timely.
g/   Historically, the ratio of grain/cattle prices per kg has been as
low as 1 : 2 and seldom higher than 1 : 4. When it increased to
1 : 5 in 1959, cattle numbers increased in 1960 and 1961. Con-
versely, when the ratio narrowed to 1 : 2.8 in 1962, cattle num-
bers declined in 1963. From 1964 through 1966 this ratio has
been slightly higher than 1 : 5.



III. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A.  Agricultural Credit and Price Policy
Impact of Inflation
19.       Agricultural credit accounts for about one-fourth of the loan
portfolio of all banks. Although credit to agriculture has increased by
360 per cent from 1960 to 1966, it remains very inadequate. In view of
nearly 275 per cent inflation during this period, agricultural lending has
failed to meet farmers' needs for financing increasing quantities of cash
inputs. Moreover, under the impact of inflation most of the loan volume
has been in the form of short-term lending.
20.       Inflation tends to distort the debtor-creditor relationship in
favor of the debtor. To neutralize the effects of inflation, banks have
raised interest rates to the legal ceiling, charged additional fees, deduc-
ted interest and other charges in advance and tried to limit lending to as
short a term as possible. Under these conditions, financing for medium and
long-term investments has not been readily available and in many instances
depended on rolling over a series of short-term credits.
21.       A limited amount of development credit has been available on con-
cessional terms through official banks (see Annex 1, Table 1). Such conces-
sional rates are justified as an interim measure in Argentina. Farmers'
confidence was affected for many years by high input prices and unfavorable
product prices as well as by discriminating taxes and an adverse exchange
rate. A number of steps have been taken to improve this situation, but con-
fidence has not yet been restored to a point where a more normal pattern of
interest rates can be expected to prevail.
B. Credit Services
22.       Among the banks, the Banco de la Nacion is of foremost importance.
It has 357 branches and agencies in Argentina, of which 46 are in the Pro-
ject area (see para 30 below and map of Project area). It accounts for more
than half of all agricultural lending. It has been the official channel
through which the Government has been supporting selected economic develop-
ment activities (see paras 19 and 20 of Annex 1).
23.       Since 1963 the Banco has obtained two loans totalling US$ 40 mil-
lion from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) for the financing of
agricultural machinery. In collaboration with INTA, the Banco has embarked
on a 4-year nationwide program (l965-68) for the financing of the National
Pasture Development Program on more than 3 million hectares (para 12).
1/ See Annex 1.



- 6 -
24.       Among the other banks the Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires
is most important for the Project zone.  It has a network of 122 branches
and offices in the Province, of which at least 40 are in the Project zone.
Lending to the agricultural sector is an important activity of this bank.
Two other large banks represented in the Project zone, the Banco Cooperativo
Agrario Argentino and the Banco Ganadero Argentino, are comparatively new
institutions, established primarily for the credit needs of agriculture.
Private banks, which account for about 15 per cent of agricultural lending
in the country, are also well represented.
25.       In sunnary, the institutional framework for agricultural credit is
well developed. In most locations of the Project area farmers can choose
among several banks. However, loan volume has been inadequate, particularly
for medium and long-term investment.
C. Technical Services I/
26.       The Secretariat of Agriculture has overall responsibility for
technical services to agriculture. W4hile performing policy and regulatory
functions on its own behalf, it has established the INTA as a semi-
autonomous agency responsible for research, extension and development ser-
vices to farmers. INTA derives practically all its financial support from
a  21 per cent tax on agricultural exports, mainly on meat and grain.  Argen-
tine farmers point out with pride that INTA is a unique institution. Its
costs are paid by the farmers, not by the general taxpayer; its policy is
directed by farm leaders on the Board of Directors; its program is in keep-
ing with farmers' realistic needs. INTA operates, among others, a regional
experiment station at Balcarce, about 4OO km south of Buenos Aires.   The
Balcarce Director is responsible for supervising research and extension
services in most of the Project zone. The Government proposes to locate
the Project Director and his office staff at Balcarce, a strategic location
for access to research and extension facilities and for proximity to most
of the Project zone.
27.       Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo (CONADE), the agency which has
played a crucial role in crystallizing Project plans and proposals, is in
charge of national economic development planning. In fulfilling this role,
CONADE will retain the responsibility for coordinating Project policies and
criteria with the overall economic development plans of the Government.
D. Animal Health
28.       MIajor animal health problems confronting the beef industry in the
Project area can be adequately controlled by a well planned herd health
program. Even the foot and mouth disease, which has historically constitutes
I/   See Annex 4.



- 7 -
a problem in Argentina, is now coming under fairly adequate control through
a compulsory vaccination program.
29.       The most important health problem, according to reported calving
percentages, appeared to be the low fertility in females. However, the
calving rates obtained by the best commercial producers were quite satisfac-
tory. Calf mortality, caused by diseases of the newborn, has also serious
economic implications. Both low fertility and calf mortality can be brought
to acceptable standards through good herd management. Disease control and
acceptable production standards depend primarily on application of known
animal health and herd management programs.
E. The Project Area /
30.       The Project area has an ample supply of fertile land not directly
affected by the soil and water problems mentioned in Annex 2. It straddles
the domestic market of an 8 million population alone in Greater Buenos Aires
and additional urban markets of La Plata, Mar del Plata, and Bahia Blanca,
with high per capita beef consumption. It has ready access to meat-packing
plants (frigorificos) with excess capacity for slaughter and processing of
beef for export. Small auction markets are owned and controlled by groups
of farmers, terminal markets are well organized, livestock marketing, grad-
ing and price reporting are adequate. Infrastructure and communications are
good.
31.       Farmers in the Project zone are experienced in capital-extensive
beef cattle production. Technical services, though available today, are
spread thin. One INTA technician must serve l,5OO to 3,000 farmers. To
achieve the necessary intensification, Project farmers would receive fre-
quent and regular services from qualified technicians, combined with long-
term loans.
32.       Progressive farmers are becoming increasingly aware of the unused
production potential that can be realized through modern pasture and herd
management techniques. However, the necessary improvements cannot be made
without long-term investment and medium to long-term credit. Supply of
credit has been inadequate for the financing of these improvements. Demand
for this credit is strong.
l/   See Annex 2 and map of Project area.



- 8 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
33.       The Project is the first phase of a long-term pasture and cattle
developm.ent program in Argentina. It proposes investment of US$ 34 million
for on-farm development and US$ 5 million for technical services to Project
farmers and for related surveys of drainage, soils, and livestock marketing.
34.       The Project aims to step up beef cattle production per hectare and
per animal unit on selected farms, in an established livestock production
area. Its objectives are:
(a) to raise production and income of Project farmers;
(b) to augment the national breeding and fattening herd,
primarily through increased production of heifers and
feeder steers for sale to other farmers;
(c) to demonstrate improved production techniques and
investment opportunities to other farmers within and
beyond the Project area.
B. Detailed Features
35.       On-farm investment would involve primarily pasture improvement with
provision for complementary measures required for good pasture and herd man-
agement. About 220,000 hectares would be improved on approximately 700 farm
units. Criteria for selection of participating farms by Project staff would
be: (i) quality of physical farm resources; (ii) ability and willingness of
owner and/or manager to implement required management techniques; and
(iii) creditworthiness. Eligibility would be by type and quality of opera-
tion rather than by farm size, emphasizing the commercial and economic nature
of the operation. No maximum or minimum farm or ranch size limit would be
imposed. i/
On-farm Investment and Phasing
36.       Project technicians and the Project Director would classify parti-
cipating farms into two categories, partial development and complete develop-
ment, according to the farm plan determining the level of investment. The
bulk of farns, about 640, in the first group would develop on the average
abo4t 300 hectares of improved pasture, leading to an overall increase in
stocking rate from 0.8 to 1.2 animal units per hectare (see Annex 7). On
1/   The Government expects participation of farmers primarily from estancias
ranging in size from 200 to 5,000 ha. Farms smaller than 200 ha, gener-
ally more oriented to crop farming, would less likely be efficient beef
cattle units, while farms with more than 5,000 ha can usually finance
themselves.



about 60 units (9 per cent of Project farms) provision would be made for
500 ha pasture improvement and complementary investment on the entire farm
area, leading to an overall stocking rate of 1.8 animal units per hectare.
Individual farmers would receive loan releases according to a 3-year invest-
ment plan. This would provide them sufficient funds on a timely basis to
permit sustained ranch development and herd expansion. Type of investment
and phasing for both categories is shown in the following table and in
Annex 3.
ON-FARM INVEST1MENT AND PHASING FOR ONE REPRESENTATIVE RANCH
Estimated
Investment Cost    Percent Disbursement
per Ranch a/      to Farmer by Year
M$N '000         1        2        3
A. Partial Development Plan   ---   Applicable for 640 farms averaging
300 ha pasture improvement
Pasture Establishment and
Consolidation                  2,980         34       33       33
Cattle Purchase                   2,760         --       50       50
Machinery Purchase                  430          70      30       --
Fencing                           1,600          25      50       25
Stock-Watering Facilities           310         50       50       __
Stock-Handling Facilities           120          --      50       50
TOTAL                    8,200          23       43       34
B. Complete Development Plan  ---   Applicable for 60 farms averaging
500 ha pasture improvement
Pasture Establishment and
Consolidation                  5,000         40       30       30
Cattle Purchase                   6,840         --       50       50
Machinery Purchase                1,370          70      30       __
Fencing                           2,000         40       35       25
Stock-Watering Facilities           560          34      33       33
Stock-Handling Facilities           190          --      50       50
TOTAL                   15,960          25       39       36
a/   In January 1966 prices.



- 10 -
37.       Farm plans prepared and supervised each year would be in accord-
ance with the number of Project technicians assigned, as projected below:
Farm Plans
Number of           Prepared and       Farm Plans
Year          Field Technicians       Appraised           Supervised
1                   6                   120                 --
2                  12                   240                120
3                  18                   340                360
4                  18                    --                700
5                  18                     --               700
38.       To assure the necessary services, one Project technician would
assist farmers in developing approximately 20 new farm plans annually, would
appraise the plans' technical feasibility and would supervise execution of
the plans in addition to supervision of those developed in previous years.
INTA would establish and maintain throughout the disbursement period a staff
of Project technicians adequate in number and qualifications, with exclusive
responsibility for execution of the farm plans and contractors' services.
Under this Project, participating banks could lend only to producers with
farm plans approved by the Project Director. The banks could reject loan
applications for reasons of creditworthiness, but could not change plans
approved by the Project Director. Contractorst applications for machinery
loans would also be subject to technical appraisal and to approval by the
Project Director. He would have to be satisfied that a genuine need exists
for contractors' machinery services and that Project farmers would be assured
of timely services from contractors receiving loans.
Production and Improvement hIethods and Operating Patterns
39.       Under the "partial't development plan, improvement on each farm
would focus mainly on high-yielding pasture to be developed with complemen-
tary fencing and watering facilities averaging about 300 ha per farm. Pur-
chase of agricultural machinery needed in pasture establishment and such
uses as on-farm drainage ditches, or alternatively of contractual services
for smaller farms, would also be financed. Loans from national lending
institutions for the purchase of breeding cattle above normal replacement
needs would enable producers, under the Project, to realize early gains from
the improved pastures.  These purchases are not likely to exceed 100,000
head and therefore would not constitute a strain on local supplies of breed-
ing cattle. Subsequent herd expansion, aided by improved herd fertility,
would be generated through retention of the producers' own heifers.



- 11 -
40.       With reference to the 60 ranchers expected to invest under the
"complete"' farm plan, the investment categories are the same as under the
partial plan.  However, developmenb of additional pastures (about 200 ha
more than under partial development) with additional fences, watering and
handling facilities, and with additional purchase of machinery and cattle
would permit more intensive land use and herd management on the entire farm
unit. The two plans differ mainly in the level of intensity. For the pro-
ducer, the rate of return on the additional investment under the complete
plan appears more attractive than under the partial plan (see Annex 5).
For the economy, the incremental production may have little significance in
the short run, because only 60 ranchers with high managerial competence
would be eligible under this plan. However, these few responsible, progres-
sive farmers would demonstrate that higher levels of technology and invest-
ment are profitable. Their example could have substantial impact on other
farmers' management and investment decisions.
C.  Cost Estimates
41.       The estimated cost of on-farm investment and of contractors' mach-
inery purchase for the Project is summarized below:
Partial        Complete
Ranch          Ranch          Total
Develop-       Develop-       On-farm
On-farm Development          ment Plan      ment Plan       Investment
--- US$ '000 equivalent ---
Pasture Establishment         8,060          1,260           9,320
Pasture Consolidation         1,980            320           2,300
Fencing                       5,390             630          6,020
Watering Points               1,050             180          1,230
Stock-Handling Facilities       410              60            470
Cattle Purchase               9,300          2,160         11,460
I'achinery Purchase           1,440            430           1,870
Total On-farm
Development                27,630          5,040          32,670
Contractors' Machinery          --              --          1,380
TOTAL PROJECT INVESTMENT                                  34,050



- 12 -
42.       Technical services in connection with the Livestock Development
Project would consist of:
(a) technical services for Project farms;
(b) drainage and soils studies in selected sites of the
Project area;
(c)  beef and meat marketing studies.
The estimated technical services cost (about US$ 5 million, as shown in
Annex 4 and summarized below), together with the Project investment cost,
aggregates the equivalent of US$ 39 million (M$N 7.4 billion), as projected
below:
Item                             Total Cost
US$ '000     %
Project Investment Cost                3h4,05     87
Technical Services for Project Farms    l,940      5
Drainage and Soils Studies              2,870       7
Marketing Studies                         240       1
TOTAL COST                     39,100    100
The foreign exchange component is estimated at around 25 per cent of the
total or about US$ 10 million.
D. Proposed Financing
43.       The cost of the Project and of related technical services and
studies would aggregate about US$ 39 million, of which Project investment
cost would account for US$ 34 million or 87 per cent. On-farm investment
would be financed through funds obtained from three principal sources:
the participating farmers and contractors, the participating banks, and the
proposed World Bank loan (items I, II, and III in table below). Technical
services to Project farms requiring mainly local currency (item IV) would
initially be financed by advances from INTA's deposit with the Central Bank.
The initial advances would later be recovered from farmers, contractors and
participating banks (see para 46 below), while the proposed Bank loan would
provide for reimbursement of the full foreign exchange cost of internation-
ally recruited technicians, of vehicles and special equipment for technical
services to be procured under the Project. The proposed studies of drainage
soils and livestock marketing would be financed by the Government, which
would obtain one-half of the cost through reimbursement from the proposed
Bank loan. The approximate financial contributions from each source are
shown below. A more detailed breakdown of estimated cost is shown in
Annex 4, tables 1 and 2.



- 13 -
Participating   Partici-
Farmers or      pating     Govern-   World
Cost Item        Contractors     Banks      ment      Bank     Total
---   US$ '000   ---
I. On-farm Investment aJ   4,240         3,900       --     13,070   21,21C
II. Cattle Purchase         2,290         9,170       --        --    11,46C
III. Contractors' Machinery    550           410       --        420    1,380
Sub-total: Project
Investment         7,080        13,480       __     13,490   34,05C
Per Cent                20            40       --         40      100
IV. Technical Services for
Project Farms (includ-
ing vehicles and
special equipment)        --            --      1,650       290    1,94C
V. Drainage and Soils
Surveys                   --            --      1,440     1,430    2,870
VI. Marketing Studies         --            --        120       120      240
Sub-total: Technical
Services, Surveys
and Studies          --            --      3,210     1,840    5,050
Per Cent               -_            --         64        36      lOC
TOTAL COST    7,080        13,480     3,210    15,330   39,100
PER CENT         18            35         8        39      1CC
a/ Excluding cattle purchase.
44.       For on-farm investments, the owners would contribute approximately
20 per cent of the estimated cost. This is within the means of their re-
sources, since the contribution could be either in cash or in kind. For
contractors' machinery, the contractors would contribute 40 per cent of the
cost from their own financial resources.  The remaining costs would initially
be advanced to the farmers or contractors as loans byflanco Nacion or other



- 14 -
participating banks. In this manner, the participating banks would finance
80 per cent of the on-farm investments and 60 per cent of the contractors,
investments. One-half of the Banco Nacion's or other participating banks'
overall financing would come from their legal reserves, since the Central
Bank has accepted the principle that this paper would be counted as satis-
fying their legal reserve requirements. The other half of loans made by
Banco Nacion or other participating banks would be re-discounted by the
Central Bank. This loan portion would be eligible for reimbursement from
the proposed Bank loan, upon presentation of satisfactory evidence of dis-
bursement by Banco Nacion.
45.       The terms and conditions of lending and relending by Banco Nacion
and participating banks would be as follows: Loans from participating b nks
to farmers and contractors would carry an interest rate of 16 per cent ;
and would be repayable in 9 years, including 4 years grace period. Contrac-
tors' loans would be repayable in 5 years, including one year grace period.
The interest rate of 16 per cent is not out of line with present credit pol-
icy. Farmers now pay 15 per cent per annum for loans with repayment periods
of up to 5 years.
46.       It is intended that the 16 per cent interest rate charged by the
participating banks to the farmers and contractors be distributed as set out
in the table below. Such distribution appears reasonable in view of the
projected favorable financial position of participating farmers (Annex 5) and
in view of the 8 per cent spread of the participating banks.
Interest Charges
To Farmers        To Participating Banks
by Partici-     by Central Bank               Spread to
pating Banks    for Money from                 Participa-
IBRD    Reserve    Average    ting Banks
---   per cent   ---
Commercial Charge      12          7        --         3.5         8.5
Exchange Risk           3          3        3           3           --
Technical Services      1          1.5      1.5         1.5       - 0.5
INTEREST          16         11.5      4.5        8           8
47.       The foregoing procedure applies solely to the funds allocated for
lending to farmers and contractors (see items I-III in table above). In the
case of technical services for Project farms (item IV in table above), the
financing will be largely provided by the 11 per cent contribution to INTA
(see para 46), with only a small residual amount coming from the IBRD loan.
At the outset, however, funds for these services will also have to come from
INTA's deposit with the Central Bank (see para 44) for this Project.   The
1/   This wiould include:  3 per cent contribution to a fund for exchange
risk, and 1 per cent contribution to INTA for technical services.



- 15 -
financing of the studies (see items V and VI in the table above) will be
covered to the extent of 50 per cent from the proposed loan, and the remain-
der will come from the Government. For purposes of loan administration, all
transactions arising from the Project would be recorded in a Special Account
and in the necessary sub-accounts of the Central Bank and the Banco Nacion.
48.       The Bank loan of US$ 15.3 million would be made to the Government
of Argentina. In view of the fact that a foreign exchange risk is involved
and that the ultimate borrowers would be unwilling to bear it in its en-
tirety, the Government will assume this risk as a measure of its contribu-
tion to development of a significant export earning resource. The ultimate
borrower will contribute 3 per cent of the loan amount (6 per cent of the
Wiorld Bank portion of such loans; see paras 45, 46). The Government has
also agreed that an adequate volume of short-term credit would be made
available to participating farmers to assure that their operating expendi-
ture requirements are satisfied as their output rises as a result of this
loan.
49.       Suggested terms of the Bank loan to the Government take account
of the repayments by the participating farmers to the Central Bank through
the participating barks. The first repaymlent by the early participants
would start in the 5th year, and all repayments by farmers would have been
finished by the end of the 11th year. In order to establish a revolving
fund to continue the purposes of the present loan, it is proposed that
repayment terms of the Bank loan should be 20 years, including 5 years
grace period. Such terms are also justified on overall balance of payments
grounds.
E. Operating Results of the Project
50.       The projected financial implications for the farmer resulting
from the Project are set out in Annex 5. Projections of input costs and
output prices have been made in constant pesos as of January 1966. The
underlying price and cost assumpt-ions are on the conservative side, con-
sidering:
(a)  the strong domestic demand for beef (para 8);
(b)  the intermediate and long-run prospects for beef export (para 17);
(c)  the competitive position in world markets of high quality
Argentinian beef which should further improve (and leave room
for increases in producer prices) with anticipated reductions
in the 25 per cent retention of beef exports (para ii); and
(d)  the expected increase in productivity as a result of improved
pasture and herd management (para 15).
The implications for the Central Bank are set out in Annex 6. Repayments
of principal and the interest would cover debt service on the proposed
IBRfD loan. The portion of collections from farmers over and above what is
necessary for debt servicing will be relent to farmers for the same pur-
pose on similar terms and conditions. This revolving feature would benefit
an estimated additional 500 farmers. The technical assistance fee, charged



- 16 -
at 1 per cent on outstanding loans to the farmers and at i per cent to par-
ticipating banks, would cover most of the costs of INTA's technical services.
F. Procurement
51.       The goods and services required for farm development under this
Project would be purchased by the individual farmer through normal commercial
channels. Because of the number of the individual sub-loans, the time spac-
ing of disbursements over a period of 5 years, and the necessity for farmers
acquiring only those makes of machinery for which repair facilities are
available, bulk procurement would be administratively cumbersome and unsound.
Most of the items to be purchased under the sub-loans, including agricultural
machinery, fence wire, windmills and tanks for stock-watering facilities, are
manufactured locally, many of them by firms which are subsidiaries of major
international companies active in the respective fields. These subsidiaries
have well established service and repair facilities in the Project area.
Argentine production of the above agricultural equipment is subject to pro-
tection and is somewhat more expensive than imported equipment would be.
The balance of goods to be purchased by farmers and contractors would be im-
ported through normal commercial channels. These include primarily phosphate
fertilizers, some insecticides and herbicides and high-yielding grass seeds.
Import duties and import surcharges on these inputs are negligible.
52.       The procurement of vehicles and special equipment for technical
services and for the drainage and soil studies under the loan will be made
on a bulk purchase basis and in accord with normal Bank procurement proced-
ure. As in similar instances, it has been agreed that a margin of 15 per
cent will be granted to domestic producers.
G. Marketing
53.       The incremental output of cattle to be produced under the impact
of this Project would be marketed through a presently adequate marketing
system. Excess capacity exists for slaughtering, processing and storage of
meat. Facilities for utilization of by-products are likewise adequate. The
demand for beef is strong in domestic and export markets (para 17). In the
short run, no serious problems are foreseen for the marketing of beef cattle
and cattle products in the Project area.
54.       For the long-term planning, however, there is a need for careful
reappraisal of the market structure. A study which would define needs and
priorities for improving the marketing efficiency, not only in the Project
zone, but in major present and potential production centers, is timely now.
The Government is preparing projects similar to this pilot Project for other
suitable areas (Corrientes and Misiones provinces). It has requested that
an amount be included in this loan which would contribute about one-half of
the estimated cost of the proposed marketing studies (Annex 4, pages 2 and 3,
and Table 2). The nature and scope of these studies and steps for their
implementation would be defined and agreed upon by the Consejo Nacional de



- 17 -
Desarrollo (CONADE) and the Bank, and carried out with the assistance of
appropriate consultants.
H.  Disbursement
55.       The Banlc would disburse, on the basis of documents submitted by
the Central Bank, 50 per cent of sub-loans made by participating banks to
Project farmers and contractors (items I, II and III, para 43) and 50 per
cent of actual expenditures for drainage and soil surveys (items V and VI).
For technical services to Project farmers (item IV) and for the drainage
and soil studies the Bank would disburse, subject to documentation, for the
foreign exchange cost of technicians and of vehicles and special equipment
to be procured by INTA under this item.   Banco Nacion and other participa-
ting banks would be required to maintain separate accounts for loans to
farmers and contractors for the duration of this Project, as prescribed by
the Central Bank.
56.       The disbursement period of the sub-loans to the individual farmer
would be 3 years.  However, inasmuch as a new group of farms would begin
their investment programs each year during the first three years (paras 36,
37 and Annex 3), the disbursement period of the entire Project would extend
over a 5-year period.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
57.       In recommending Project organization and responsibilities, the
mission studied carefully the strength and functions of existing entities.
Wlhile insisting on full-time services from a small Project staff, responsi-
ble directly to the Project Director, the mission was guided by the desire
to integrate this staff into the INTA, the agency in charge of Government
research, extension and development services. INTA has as yet limited acti-
vities in the development field. The Project would enable INTA to strength-
en its development work through close cooperation with the credit agencies
invclved. The Project Director would be the key man. Before the loan be-
comes effective, INTA would appoint a Project Director satisfactory to the
Bank.
58.       Lending activities of the participating banks would be supervised
by the Central Bank (para 44). Initially it would authorize the Banco de
la Nacion to make sub-loans to farmers and contractors under the Project.
Later on other banks would be permitted to participate in retailing and
supervising Project loans. Permission to participate in making Project
loans would be subject to qualifications laid down by the Central Bank, in
agreement with the Bank.
59.       The Central Bank would authorize the participating banks to fi-
nance up to one-half of the sub-loans from their legal reserves. It would
rediscount the other half and subsequently ask for reimbursement from the
proposed Bank loan (para 44).
60.       INTA would be responsible for carrying out the drainage and water
control surveys in cooperation with the Provincial Government of Buenos Aire
with the main purpose of identifying and defining critical drainage district?
within the Project zone. In drainage districts thus identified and designat
as high priority in terms of improvement potential and need for further stud;



- 18 -
INTA would then initiate semi-detailed soil surveys for the purpose of pre-
paring soil classification and land suitability maps and feasibility reportE
for land development. Some surveys of this kind have already been planned
or even initiated. However, at the present rate of accomplishment their
completion would take at least 10 years. The proposed loan would enable
the Government and INTA to accomplish these objectives within a 3 to h-year
period (see Annex 4). The nature and scope of these studies as well as
organization and procedures for their implementation would be defined and
agreed upon by the Government and the Bank.
VI.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
61.       Benefits to be realized by participating farmers from Project
investments on representative 1,000 hectare units are projected in Annexes
5 and 7 and summarized below:
Percent
After 5      After 10     Increase
Before     Years of     Years of     Aifter
Development  Development  Development  10 Years
Partial Ranch Development
Stocking Rate per Hectarea/      0.8         1.2          1.2          --
Effective Calving Rate,
Percent           /            70          80           82          --
Total Stock, Number b/           650       1,040        1,164          79
Cattle Sales, Number             286         393           638        123
Net Income, in M$N tooo ./d    3,257       2,657         8,502        161
Complete Ranch Development
Stocking Rate per Hectare a/     0.8         1.6           1.8         --
Effective Calving Rate,
Percent                        70          86           go          --
Total Stock, Number               7 650    1,812        1,736         162
Cattle Sales, Number             286         604        1,008        252
Net Income, in M$N '000 _/d/   3,257       3,993       14,364         341
a/   In equivalent of adult animal units per hectare.
b/   Excluding calves.
c/ After debt service.
d/   Including income from sheep and cash crops which were assumed
to remain unchanged.
62.       On Project farms productivity would increase markedly.   Cattle
sales would increase as a result of higher stocking, reduced mortality and
improved calving rates.  After 10 years, when development is completed, net
income of participating farmers would have increased by nearly 200 per cent
under "partial development" and by more than 300 per cent under "complete
development ".



- 19 -
63.       The Project's impact on Argentina's meat supply and exports is sum-
marized in Annex 8. After 10 years, annual beef production in liveweight
would increase by about 80,000 tons, a gross value of about M$N 4,000 millio'
equivalent to US$ 21 million. This increase would be primarily in the form
of calves sold for fattening to farmers in other areas. If the fattened
slaughter animals were taken into account, the Project would indirectly gen-
erate a total annual increase in liveweight of 130,000 tons, a gross value of
M$N 6,500 million, equivalent to US$ 34 million.
64.       Assuming further that half of the incremental meat supply could be
exported, the Project's annual net contribution to Argentina's foreign ex-
change earnings is estimated at approximately US$ 19 million.
65.       Projected returns to farmers and to the economy are favorable.   At
the farm level the incremental investment on already established beef cattle
ranches, selected for resource development potential and managerial compe-
tence, would lead to improved resource use and high marginal returns. Bene-
fits to the economy are likewise high. Argentina, and especially the Project
area, has the advantage of an established beef industry, with organized mar-
kets and related supporting institutions. Few countries can match these
conditions.
66.       Based on the cash flow projection, the financial return to the par7
ticipating farmer would be about 25 per cent under partial development and
33 per cent in the case of complete development. Taking into account both
partial and complete development and the estimated increase in tax payments
of participating farmers, and also the cost of technical services to farmers,
the internal rate of return of the entire Project to the economy would be
approximately 27 per cent. (The probable increase in export tax proceeds is
not considered.)
67.       In addition to these direct production effects, the economy would
gain from the demonstration of modern production techniques on Project farms.
Although this benefit is more intangible, it could make a substantial contri-
bution to the long overdue breakthrough in Argentina's static cattle industr:
VII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOIfENDATIONS
68.       Argentina's cattle production would be increased significantly
through long-term credit for supervised investment on Project farms. Satis-
factory returns would result to Project farmers and to the economy.
69.       The Project is technically and economically sound and is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$ 15.3 million. The borrower would be the Government
of Argentina and the Central Bank would administer the loan proceeds. An
appropriate term would be 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years. The
Government would bear the exchange risk, partially defrayed by the producers'
contribution (para 46).. The Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Agropecuaria
(INTA) would be responsible for rendering technical services to Project farm-
ers and for executing drainage and soil surveys in critical drainage dis-
tricts. The Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo (CONADE) would be responsible for
carrying out the marketing studies.
June 28, 1967



ANNEX I
Page I
THE BANKING SYSTEM
A. Institutional Framework for Credit
1.        From the viewpoint of credit policy and direction, Argentine banks
can be classified into three groups: official banks, which are wholly owned
by the Government (national or provincial); semi-official banks or I'mixtos",
which are owned by provincial governments and private entities; and private
banks, which are entirely private-owned.  Most Argentine banks operate as
commercial banks and derive most of their lending funds from short-term de-
posits (deposits subject to check and official deposits). Generally, be-
cause of the commercial banking nature of Argentine banks and also because of
stringent deposit reserve requirements imposed by the Central Bank of
Argentina as a measure against inflation, their loans are preponderantly
short-term.
2.        General lending activity by banks in Argentina is dominated by
official banks. In recent years, their volume of lending has been about
twrice that of private banks. On January 31, 1967, loans and investments
of official and semi-official banks amounted to almost M$N 500,000 million
while those of private banks were I$N 256,ooo million.
3.        In lending to agriculture and livestock, official and semi-
official banks play an important role as instruments of national and
provincial economic policies, lending more than six times the amount loaned
by private banks. The Banco de la Nacion Argentina, in particular, has made
more than 50 per cent of all loans to the agricultural and livestock
sectors.
B. Central Bank of Argentina
Organization and Management
4.        Policy of the Central Bank is determined by a Board of Directors
consisting of the President and Vice-President of the Central Bank and six
directors - the President of Banco de la Nacion, a representative of official
and semi-official banks in the interior of Argentina, and four members
recomnended by the IMinistry of Economay.
Lending Operations
5.        In accordance with its role as a "bankers' bankt", the Central Bank
has granted rediscounts and advances to the banking system. Rediscounts
have been given for short-term and long-term maturity. Advances are generall:
for some specific economic projects and are of long maturity. The charter
of the Central Bank does not limit maturity of rediscounts and advances.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        The rates and rediscounts of the Central Bank are determined in
line with the economic objectives of the Government.  As of April 1967 the
rates were:
(a) rediscounts of documents arising out of agricultural, live-
stock and industrial operations and advances secured by
documents from the same kind of operations - 7 per cent
per annum;
(b) rediscounts of documents arising out of transactions in-
volving other activities and advances secured by documents
from the same kind of operations - 9 per cent per annum; and
(c) advances for economic development, agrarian transformation,
and pre-financing of exports - 3 per cent per annum.
7.        In response to the need for loanable funds, the Central Bank has
increased its rediscounts and advances from M$N 13.7 million during 1963 to
M$N 62.2 million during 1966. Most of the rediscounts were granted to the
agricultural and livestock sector.
Credit Control of Deposit Funds
8.        Because of inflation, the Central Bank has imposed stringent re-
serve requirements against the use of deposit funds for lending. At present
Argentine banks must keep reserves equivalent, on the average, to about
45 per cent of their deposit liabilities. However, the actual structure of
reserve requirements is very complex. Banks in the Greater B.A. area must
keep reserves of 38 per cent against all sight deposits; 34 per cent must be
kept in cash while 4 per cent may be satisfied by certain specified types of
loans. In addition to the basic reserve requirement, there is a marginal
reserve requirement of 30 per cent against increases in deposits over the
I4ay 15, 1963 level which must be kept in Treasury bonds. Thus, the B.A.
banks may now freely lend out only 32 per cent of the new deposits they
receive.
C. Banco de la Nacion Argentina
Objectives and Relationship with the Government
9.        The Banco de la Nacion Argentina (Banco Nacion) became a state
bank in 1904. Its objectives are: (i) to help agricultural production;
and (ii) to attend to the current needs of commerce, industry and other
activities. It is directed by law to coordinate its policies with the
economic policies of the Government. The relationship of the Banco Nacion
with the Executive Power is maintained through the Ministry of Finance.
Organization and Management
10.       The management of Banco Nacion is directed by a Board of Directors
consisting of the President and the Vice-President of the Banco Nacion and
eight other members - two from agricultural producers, two from industrial-
ists, two from businessmen, and two from other activities.



ANI1 1
Page 3
11.       The Head Office of the Banco Nacion is in the City of Buenos Aires.
It has about 357 branches and agencies in Argentina and 4 agencies outside
the country. In the Project area there are about 46 branches of the Banco
Nacion.
Functions and Probibited Operations
12.       The Banco Nacion can receive deposits and perform banking opera-
tions which the Board of Directors judge appropriate. It can give short,
medium and long-term loans, but the last two categories should be given
preferably with tangible security. Long-term loans cannot exceed 15 per
cent of deposits excluding official deposits, while the sum of medium and
long-term loans cannot exceed 35 per cent of total deposits excluding offi-
cial deposits. By law,, medium-term loans are those with maturity of from
3 to 5 years, while long-term loans are those with maturity of from 6 to 15
years. By implication, the Banco Nacion cannot lend for a term of more than
15 years.
C-eneral Lending Policies and Activities
13.       Credit programs are reviewed and established annually and approved
by the Board of Directors. The limit of loan investments for each branch
or office is determined in the Head Office. Interest for loans is generally
from 12 to 15 per cent per annum.
14.       Appraisals of collaterals take into account conservative market
values. The time lapse between loan applications by borrowers and their
receipt of the loans is reasonable. This is made possible by the rapid
inter-bank communication system and the approving power enjoyed by branch
managers, and the fact that where the Banco Nacion does not have its own
farm appraisers, private professional appraisers are used.
15.       Lately, the Banco Nacion has shifted its lending activity to agri-
culture and livestock, as may be seen from the following figures:
To Agriculture      To Commerce
Loans as of:                       and Livestock      and Industry
- Current M$N Million -
December 31, 1962                      23,564            31,053
December 31, 1963                      28,877            32,990
December 31, 1964                      43,854            42,529
December 31, 1965                      59,593            56,464
December 31, 1966                      75,878            73,065



ANNE 1
Page 4
16.       The rise in the loans of the Banco Nacion to agriculture and live-
stock for the entire country is reflected in the followiTng summary:
Dec.31, '63  Dec.31, '64 Dec.31, '65   Dec.31, '66
- Current M$N Million -
Ordinary Loans        22,942       34,196       43,961        54,167
Development Loans        594          467          310           231
I.D.B. Loans           2,194        7,792       13,589        18,716
Total       25,730       42,455       57,86o        73,114
Loans Past Due         3,147        1,399        1,733         2,764
Special Lending Activities
17.       One loan in 1963, in the equivalent of US$ 25 million and another
in 1964, in the equivalent of US$ 15 million were obtained by Banco Nacion
from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) for the purpose of improving
agricultural technology. Specifically, the funds are to be used for the
purchase of farm machinery and equipment and a small portion for fertilizers.
Machinery and equipment loans of up to 60 per cent of their market value
were given for a period of 5 years at interest of 12 per cent per annum plus
another 3 per cent per annum to cover a part of the exchange risk.
18.       In collaboration with the Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Agro-
pecuaria (INTA), the Banco Nacion has embarked on a 4-year (1965-68) National
Pasture Development Program which has objectives similar to those of the
proposed Bank loan. During the first two years (1965-66) the Banco Nacion
has placed loans for the improvement of about 1.4 million hectares.   Unlike
the proposed loan, this program does not provide for financing of other ranch
development needs associated with pasture improvement and herd management
(fencing, stock watering and handling facilities and mechanization); it is
being implemented on a national scale and not confined to specified and
limited areas of high development potential; though it requires technical
appraisal initially, it does not have provisions for field technicians who
are exclusively responsible for continued supervision of these loans.
Source and Cost of Funds
19.       The Banco Nacion derives its loanable funds from three sources:
deposits, rediscounts and advances from the Central Bank of Argentina, and
loans from IDB.
20.       Deposit reserve requirements of the Central Bank are about 40 per
cent of deposit liabilities. In view of these stringent deposit reserve
requirements, it is estimated that the cost of loanable funds from savings
deposits is at least 13-1/3 per cent per annum and from fixed deposits at
least 18-1/3 per cent per annum.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
21.       Borrowings from the Central Bank of Argentina were as follows:
E n d o f
1962     1963     19646    1965     1966
current M$N millon -
Rediscounts      --     1,099      578    5,757     3,133
Advances       6,455    6,546    5,734    19,075 ' 16,326
Others            58      680    1,227    1,524    2,099
TOTAL     6,513    8,325    7,539   26,356    21,558
22.       Rediscounts from the Central Bank which cost from 7 to 9 per cent
per annum are of short-term maturity. Advances from the Central Bank are
for the economic development of underdeveloped zones and are, therefore, for
long-term. The Banco Nacion pays interest of 3 per cent on such advances.
The increases in borrowings from the Central Bank are mainly in the form of
advances.
23.       On the basis of published reports, the Banco Nacion is in good
financial condition (tables 2 and 3). It has been realizing consistent
yearly profits. The accounting and auditing procedures of the Banco Nacion
are satisfactory. The loan information is adequate, records are well kept,
and the repayment experience is satisfactory.



AMNIn
Table I
SANCO DS LA NACION ARGENTIKA
CREDIT POLICIES RIAGADINO CSRTA1N WDAS TO AORICULTURB AND LIVESTOCK
(as. of January 1967)
General Purpose               Specific Types of Investment                    Limit of-Loan Amount                     Terms of Repsyraet               interest per Annm
L, For the oultivation        I. For prpepration of land and sowings          I.-
off ,if7     os               a. With producers men resources,                a. To 80% of costs but limit of
carley, oats and rye                                                            ala 600 per ha.
h. On contract basis.                           b. To 60% of costs but limit of Ons)
l20por ha. 
)One payinent upon marketing
2. Fur costs of seeds.                          2. To 60% of cost but not eoseodlng    )of products but not beypn   )             5%
in the ease oft                    ) Nrch 31 after grant of
a. theat - aus 1,21.0 per ha.      )lose.
b. Linseed - abs 1,160 per ha.
c. Data -abslOMper ha.             )
d. Barley -.*n8SWper ha.
e. Rye -mbS 650per ba.
B. For preparastio,tion of    1. For cosats of hervestiOg, threshing,         1.-
hZ7Y_eiitTodr_ikt_            putting into bags and storing.
a. With producer's men resourosest
1) Wheat, oats, barley and ryp.             a. 1) To 70% of costs hut limit of
asU 90 per ha.
2) Linseed.                                    2) To T0% of obste hut limit of
aso IW par ha.                                                         15%
b. On contract bamsis 
1) thact, oats, barley and rye.             b. 1) To 70% of csets but limit of
&ab 150 per ha.
2) Linseed.                                    2) To 70% of costs but limit of
abs 200 par ha.
C.                            1. For costta of sowiAg                         1. To 60% of coaeta byt limit of a$o
M7____.________                                                               350 per ha.)
2. For costs of harvesting threshing aid        2. -
packing.                                                                          )120 days, renewable, but not
a.With producer-e own resources,              a. Ta 60% of costs but Ilimit of  )to emceed the period of                   15%
Eab P5 per ha.                 ) nrmal marketing.
8. To 60% of *oets bat limit of
aus 130 per ha.
0.  For-soil conservation     1. For costs of labor, seeds, plaLnts, equip-   1. tI to 50% of the cost of invest-      In ancordance with en agreed,
snoit, esobinry, fined improvements             Sameet                               but not more than, four (I,)
all with referemce to the fixing of                                                  pears.
dunes, layut of contours, ocostruotiom                                                                                       12%
of terraeas, improvemnts In the pbysioal
4condition of the soil, end utiliatleo
'and amanagment of water of the soil.
S. For fartilisers            1. Acquisition san applioation of nos.          1. To 80% okf esoessary expnses.         1. To two poas, renewable to
fertilisre.                                                                              no sore then fear paLre.            12%
2. Acquisition and application of feten-        2. To 80% of mecesarwy ampenses.         2. From two pears to any numoer
liaers of a sore residual affect,                                                        of pears agreed upon depend-
tng on the kind of fertiiizer.      121
F.   orieproduction of        1. Fcr soil preparation and swvings             1. -                                 )   I,  For annual aspcies, to 270
_____                 ~~~~a, Dry farming with animal pmr.             s. To 50% of costs, limit of abs )   a   days, for perennial specias,
l6S per ha.                   )   a   topsyers -20% Lst poar,
b. bry farming with mechinery.                  b. To 50% of costs, limit of         d A 40s% 2nd par, anm WS0 3rA
Ron SW0 per ba.               I   2. per. 
c. Irrigated terming.                           c. To 50% of coost, limit of abks
3,O000per ha. 
2. For purchase of seads.                       2.  To 80% of costa.
3, For cutting ans piling.                      3. To 50% of coats, limit of abs 1.0     3. 120 deja, option of another    )     15%
per 113 %U.                              90 days. 
Is. For cutting, piling mud storing.            4.. To 50% of costs, limit of ot   T0    I.. ilo days, option of another
per 100 kg.                              90 days for remaining half
Of fise. 
5. for gathering of aseeda                      S.  --C5.
a. Alfalfa,                                     a. To 50% of costs, limt of aft          a. 120 days, OptiOn Or anRother)
46o per Oo kg.                  C        90Odays. 
b. Other forages.                               b. To 8D% of costs per lCD kg.     C     b. 
C). ~ppp4prnte                1. For constructions, instalations, saior       1. To 70% of cewestary costs. To        Ltp to 5 pears, in equal or pro-
RhN lzrtural and      investments that will pareit a reason-          80% of costs if instalatione are     pessiva annual ameotisationa aith
IiivesU1.opraiontIs          able increase in production,                    for animal sanitation,               a grace period if' necessary.           15%
HI. For control of weeds      1,   or purchase of chemicals, etc.and          1, 
insects, diseases. et.,_      labors                                                                           )   Froms2to3pyearsdepending on
in  gicultwoe AMs             a. In case of cooperatives,                     A. 100% of costs.                )   thi subject being controlled,           15%
li,matock                     b, In came of Others.                           b. 90% of costs. 
2, To combat 'tucura'.                          2. To sobs 200 per hectare.
 



ANNEX 1
Tab=le2
BANCO DE LA NACION ARGENTINA
STATEMENT OF RESOURCES AND LIABILITIES
ON THE DATES INDICATED
- Current M$N Million -
Dec. 31      Dec. 31     Dec. 31      Dec. 31     Dec. 31
1962         1963        1964         1965        1966
RESOURCES
Cash and Cash Assets                                   5,210       16,972      22,463       34,587      30,446
Investments                                            1,353        8,141      12,329       12,829      13,030
Operations in Gold and Foreign Monies                  7,232        5,267      11,005       12,864       9,922
Loans
Comnercial
Advances in Current Account                       3,515        4,077       3,350        2,870       3,122
Disa unts                                        16,774       17,555      26,774       41,776      56,676
Drafts and Bills Parchased                        1,254        1,013       1,750        2,580       2,659
Debtors from Exchange Operations                  5,308        4,612       4,436        2,356       3,946
Loans Past Dae                                    3,442        4,969       5,207        5,891       5,448
Others                                              760          764       1,012          991       1.214
Total                                        31,053      32,990       42,529      56,464       73,065
Agriculture ard Livestock
Ordinary Loam  ("Cozmunes')                      21,703       22,942      34,196       43,961       54,167
Special Developmental Loars                         686          594         467          310         231
Loans from I.D,B. Funds                              --        2,194       7,792       13,589      18,716
Loans Past DIe                                    1,175        3,1147      1,399        1,733       2,764
Total                                       23,564       28,877       43,854      59,593       75,878
Miscellaneous Loans                                   841          550       2,736          834        1,283
Total Loans                                        55,458       62,417      89,19       116,891     150,226
Other Resources                                       12,609        7,381       9,505       16,097      21,885
Total Resources                              81,862     100,178      144,421     193,268      225,509
LIABILITIES
Dae to the Central Bank of Argentina
Rediscounts                                            --        1,099         578        5,757       3,133
Advances                                            6,455        6,546       5,734       19,075     .}16,326
Others                                                 58          680       1,227        1,524    *' 2,099
Total                                        6,513        8,325        7,539      26,356       21,558
Deposit Liabilities
From the Public
Current Accounts                                 14,593       22,026      33,495       37,450      49,496
Savings Accounts                                 16,828       24,075      32,878       41,206       51,416
Fixed Accounts                                      476        1,679       2,537        3,754       6,o28
Special Accounts                                  2,179        2,606       5,201       17,180        9,010
Total                                        34,076      50,386       74,111      99,590      115,950
Others
Banks and Correspondents                            679        1,655       1,337        1,540       1,729
Official Deposits                                 7,740       11,173      22,984       15,058      29,517
Judicial Deposits                                 3,009        3,855       5,198        6,368       6,417
Foreign Banks                                        19          22           39           80          27
Drafts Payable                                      715        1,041        L139        11465       1,886
Total                                        12,162      17,746       30,697      24,511       39,576
Total Deposit Liabilities                          46,238       68,132     104,808      124,101     155,526
Operations in Gold and Foreign Monies                 12,655       4,020       10,056       11,897       8,774
Other Liabilities and Obligations                      9,823      12,335       13,860      22,8%        31,417
Total Liabilities                            76,184      93,829      137,473      34,793       40,191
Net Worth
Capital                                          2,0o0        2.300       2,700        5,846       5,846
Surplus and Surplus Reserves                     3,678        4,049       4,248        2,172       2,388
Total Net Worth                              5,678        6,349       6,948        8,018        8,234
Total Liabilities and Net Worth             81,862      100,178      144,421     193,268      225,509



ANNEX 1
Table 3
BANCO DE LA NACION ARGENTINA
STATENENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSES
DURING THE YEARS INDICATED
1962      1963      1964      1965      1966
- Current M$N Million -
INCOMD4E
Interest Received
From Loans             5,282     6,217     9,104    13,440    17,700
From Investments          91       293       802     1,067     1,008
From Other Sources        24        12        15         4        14
Total             5,397     6,522     9,921    14,511    18,722
Profits on Exchange       1,028     1,623       839       552       888
Commissions               1,076     1,173     1,478     1,957     2,511
Net Income or Loss ( )
of Agencies Abroad        65       (46)       23       161       329
Other Income                359       832     1,114       878       576
Total Income      7,925    10,104    13,375    18,059    23,026
EXPENSETJS
Ititerest Paid
To the Central Bank
of Argentina           582       473       479       839     1,568
To Depositors          1,164     2,012     3,392     4,401     5,838
To Others                 __         6       131       302       508
Total             1,746     2,491     4,002     5,542     7,914
General Expenses          3,752     4,948     6,799     9,473    12,994
Amortizations and Pro-
visions for Bad
Debts, Deprecia-
tion, etc.             1,436     1,681     1,730     1,709     1,652
Miscellaneous Losses
and Expenses              41       146        96       185       196
Total Expenses    6,975    9,266     12,627    16,909    22,756
NET INCOIE                       950       838       748     1,150       270



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PROJECT AREA
Location, Size             ic Features (See map of Project area)
1.        The Project area lies south and southwest of Buenos Aires.  It is
bordered by the Sierra de Ventana in the west, by the Vallimanca,-Salado Rivers
in the northwest and by the Atlantic Coast from La Plata to Bahia Blanca in
the east and south.  The area covers 12 million hectares, about half the size
of Uruguay. Yet it comprises less than half of Buenos Aires Province and less
than 5 per cent of Argentina's total land area.
2.        A solid grassy plain, the "Pampa"t, dominates the landscape, ranging
in altitude from 0 to 300 meters above sea level. Features disturbing this
plain are: (i) sand dunes near the coast; (ii) "sierras" and "piedmonts" with
elevations not exceeding 5t0 meters above sea level; and (iii) river basins
arnd depressed areas or "lagoons". The latter, when not provided with natural
or artificial outlets, cause drainage problems in part of the Project area
(see map), but even this portion is not uniformly bad. Through discretion of
the technical staff, farms capable of increasing productivity can be selected
for pasture and herd improvement.
3.        Temperate zone climate, without excessive heat or cold, and ecologi-
cal conditions, are suitable for high yielding grass and legume pastures un-
der good management. Annual rainfall ranges from 600 to 900 millimeters.
Feed shortages, caused by occasional drought and flood periods, can be mini-
rmzed through pasturing of annual crops, through preservation of hay and
silage.
4.        The mission's soil expert gave particular attention to the areas
which are subject to inadequate internal and external drainage, to soil sali-
nity and alkalinity: (i) the wet plains of the east; (ii) the depressions
(Chascomus, Las Flores, Laprida and Vallimanca); and (iii) the river basins
(Salado, Samborombon and tribut'aries).  He studied causes of adverse condi-
tions and concluded that in several areas substantial improvements would be
technically feasible both through drainage measures (benefits of canals dug
early in this century are still apparent) and through management involving
deep plowing and seeding of special grasses (agropyrum and festuca) and sweet
clover (melilotus).
5.        In areas characterized by these soil and water problems, farmers
specialize in cattle breeding. They sell feeder cattle to alfalfa-growing
and cattle-fattening ranchers in areas further west and northwest. Because
of the potential contribution to the expansion and improvement of the national
breeding herd, the Government requests that this breeding zone, though partly
located in critical drainage districts, be incorporated in the Project area.
The mission supports this request provided that only farms selected by Project
technicians and approved by the Director will receive development loans, and
provided further that drainage and soils surveys will be carried out to deter-
mine technically and economically feasible measures for improved resource use.
These drainage and soil studies are crucial prerequisites to further develop-
ment on additional farms in problem areas of the Project zone. Technical and



AMNEX 2
Page 2
financial assistance to these studies must be closely linked to the strategy
of the Balcarce Project if additional farms are to receive the full benefit
of this pilot project.
6.        The balance of the land area, more than half of the project zone, is
outside the problem area. It has predominantly fertile soils of deep brown
earth (brunizem) and black earth (chernozem and prairie soils).   They produce
small grains, oil seeds, potatoes, generally in extensive rotation ikiith nat-
ural unimproved pasture. Land is left in unimproved pasture ("descanso") for
several years. Research and demonstration has proven technical feasibility of
subtantial productivity increases mainly through better pasture management and
crop rotation. Progressive farmers have found the necessary investment and
changes in management profitable, including the use of phosphorus fertilizer.



PRINCIPAL PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF LAND
Geographical     Geology of                Topography                                    Climate                                                        Activities of
Geomorphology       Name       Parent Material                                   Hydrology                                     Vegetation      Soils        Drainage    Mcankiro           Lands
Relief     Slope    Position                Temperature        Rainfall
La Ventana     Granite           Undulating   Steep      High    Running                                       Trees        Lithosol       Good to      Extensive
Azul           Cuarzite          Rough                           Streams                                       Tall         Colluvial      Excessive    Grazing
Tandil         Sandstone                                                                                         Grasses    Alluvial
Hills           Balcarce       Limestone
Mar del
Plata
PSlerras and
Pledmontsn
La Ventana                                    Gentle    High     Running     Mean      ]14.10C  Mean   816m    Grasses      Deep Prairie   Good         Permanent
Azul           Loess              oling                          Streams      a   Max. 21.20C   Max. 1,157m                 Brunizem                    Improved Pas-
PLedmonts       Balcarce       Tosca               r                                         Aba. Max. 23°C     MiCereals
Mar del                                                                       n   Min.-lO.3C                                                            Potatoes
Plata
Maipu          Marine finm       Flat         Vary       LoW     Lagoons &   Mean      15.00C   Mean   879mm   Grases       Hydromorphic   Bad          Grazing
Dolores          sediments                    Gentle             pfanzun      n   Max. 21.jsC   Max. 1,213=    Sos trees    Saline and     *Banados     Improved Pas-
Conesa         Old Terraces                                      without       .  Min. 9.2C     Min.   502m    Plains       Alkaline       high water- tures using
outlet.     Abs. Max. 41.O C                  Grassland    Gley           table.       Agropyrum,      Wet Plains
Old          n   Min. -7.5C                                               Swampa and   Ftatuca and
streams                                                                   Marshes      Melilotus
without
outlet
connected
drairage
canals
Plains
Necochea       Loess             Nama         Very       High    Lakes,       1an      14.0°C   Mean   699in   Grasses      Prairie Soils Good          Continuous
Mar del        Sand                           Gentle             lagoons &     n  Max. 21.30C   Max. 1,186mm   Prairie      Brunizem                    ploughing for
Plata       sometimes                                         streams       n   Min. 7.80C    Min.  hll2mm   Grassland    Chestnut                   cereals ard
Bahia Blanca   Tosca near                                        with out-   Abs. Max. 1,3.00C                                                          potatoes.       Well drained
Tres Arroyos   surface                                           lets.   Few      Min. -8.2°C                                                           Increased soil     Plains
pfannen                                                                                water holding
capacity
Chascoius      Clay pans         Flat         Very       Lo       Lagoons &             -        Mean   878mm  Grasses      Hydromorphic   Bad          Extensive
Depressions     Las Flores     Loessial                       Gentle     and     pfannen                        Max. 1,232mm    (Distichlis  Gley          Swampa and   Grazing         Depressions
Laprida          blankets                                High     without                        Min.   620mm       and      Saline anid   Marshes
outlets                                       Cynodon)     Alkaline
Vallimanca     Geol. Falts       Rolling      Gentle     Valley   Running               _              _        Grasses      Alluvial and   Some good,  Extensive
River and       Salado         Clay pans         to flat      to         phase    rivers                                        Trees        Hydromorphic   some        Grazing          Rie Basins
Stream Basins   Samborombon    Sandy                          Steep                                                             Bushes                       impeded
Quequen
South aid      Sandy             "Hilly"      Steep      Low         -                                          Grasses      Regosols       Excessive    Trees
Said Dunes      East                                          ard                                                               and                                                      Sand Dunes
Coasts                                        Complex                                                           Trees



RANCH INVESTlENT COSTS
COMPLETE RANCH DEVELOPMENT
REPRESENTATIVE RANCH SIZEr 1 000 HECTUE
HERD SIZE TARGET: 1.8CO XMRE ANIPAL  TS
(in Jmuzy 1,6 prices)
Units                Average
Unit                  Per                Cost per                 Total 60 Ranch Units
Cost                 Ranch                Ranch
Investment Items                    unit
(Pesos)                No.               (Thousand            (Million            (Thousand
Pesos)               Pesos)                 Us$)
PASrURE ESTABLISHDiT                                                                                    3,893.5              239.0                1,258
land Prepartion, Seeding and
Fertiliser Application                   Ha.               2,0wY                 5c
Seeds                                    Ha.               3,116                 500
Innoculum                                Ha.                  12                 500
Fertilizer (100 Kgs.Rla.)                Ha.               2,1,0                 Soo
Woed Control (Mechanical)                Ra.                 200                 250
Woed Control (Chemical)
HerbicideB                          Ha.                 240                 250
Herbicide Application               Na.                 200                 250
Insect Control (Pesticides)              Ha.                 900                  50
FENCING                                     KM.             200,000                 10                  2,000.0              120.0                  632
STOCK WAYTEiUNO  ACILI                      No.             250,000                 2 IAY                 562.5               33.8                  178
STOCK HARIINGO FACILITI                                                                  /                190.0               1l.h                   60
Corrals                                  No.             360,o000                   /3-
Scales                                   No.             1140,000                  1/2
CATTLE FPURCHAS                                                                                         6,8h0.o              hlO.o                2,160
Breeding Age Heifers                     No.              18,000                 300
Breeding Age Bulls                       No.              80,000                  18
MACHINERY PURCHASE                                                                                      1,373.2               82.h                  h33
50 HP Tractor Package                    No.            ,6o,0oo00                  112d/
Forage Harvester                         No.             Lo,ooo                    1/6
PASTU  0ONSMLIDi10N COSTS                                                                               1,010.0               60.6                  319
Fertilizer (50 Kgs./Ra.)                 Ha.               1,200                 500
Fertilizer Application                   Ha.                 500                 500
Weed Control (Mechanical)                Ha.                 200                 950
Weed Control (Chemical)
Herbicides                          Ha.                 24,0                250
Herbicide Application               Ha.                 200                 250
TOTAL                                               -                   -                  15,959.2              957.6                5,oho
a/    Weighted average cost (30 ranchers using their on equipment S M$N 1,000 per ha. cash operating cost and 30 using contractors,
services 0 M$N 3,000 per ha.); hence no double-counting of capital cost for ranchers purchasing machinery.
b Assuming each rancher will construct 2 and every fourth rancher 3 new watering points.
c/    Enlargement and improvement of existing facilities and 1 scale for every 2 ranchers.
One tractor with complementary eqnupment for every 2 farmers and 1 forage harvester for every 6 farmers.



ARSENTINA
RANCH INVESTMENT COSTS
PARTI AL RANCH DEVELOPMENT
REPRESENTATIVE RANCH SIZ&s 1.000 HECTARIS
HERD SIZE TARGITs 1 200 LARGE ANIMAL UNITS
gTSDar      NYM    0t B  (RAst oW9
(In Jawy 194      pries)
Units                   Average
Unit            Per                     Cost Per
INVESTMENT ITEKS                                 Unit                  Cost            Ranch                   Ranch            Total 640 Ranch Units
(Pesos)         (N0.)                   (Thousand         (Nillion   (Thousand
Poso,)            Pesos)      US$)
PASTURE ESTABLISHX3T                                                                                                   2,394.0          1,532.1        8,064
Land Preparation, Seeding and Fertilizer Application  Na.                 2,375 a/           300
Seed                                                  Ha.                 2,845              300
Innoculux                                             Ka.                    10              300
Fertiliser (100 Kge.hla.)                             He.                 2,400              300
Woed Control (Mechanical)                             as.                   200              225
Weed Control (Chemical)
Herbicides                                       Ha.                    240              75
Herbicide Application                            Ha.                    200              75
Insect Control (Pesticides)                           Ha.                   900               30
FENCING                                                  l.                200,0O0                8                    1,600.0          1,024.0        5,389
STOCK WATEHING FACILITIES                                ID.               250,000            1 IA bJ                    312.5            200.0        1,053
STOCK HANDINO FACILITIES                                 yo.               360,000              1/3 0/                   120.0             76.8          404
CATLE PURCHASE                                                                                                          2,760.0         1,766.4        9,297
Breeding Age Heifers                                  No.                18,000              100
Breeding Age Bulls                                    go.                 80,0O0              12
ncHNRT PtURCNASg                                                                                                          427.0           273.3        1,438
50 HP Tractw Pkage                                    No.              2,600,000              1/20 d/
32 HP Tractor Package                                 No.              2,214,000              1/12
Suppleentay    quipat Pakage                          No.                634,ooo              1/6
Forage Harvester                                      No.                44o0,000             1/614
PASTURE COISOLIDATION COSTS                                                                                              588.0            376.3        1,98
Fertilizer (50  ge./Ha.)                              Ha.                  1,200             300
Fertilizer Applloation                                Ha.                    500             300
Weed Control (Mechanical)                             Ha.                    200             225
Weed Control (Chemical)
Herbicides                                       Ha.                    2140             75
Herbicide Application                            Ha.                    200              75
TOTAL                                                          -                 --                    8,201.5          5,248.9       27,626
a/ Estimated weighted average cost (200 ranchers using their own equipment * N$N 1,000 per ha. and l40 using contractors'
equipment e N$N 3,000 per ha.); hence no double-counting of capital cost on machinery for ranchers purchasing machinery.
b/ Assuming each rancher will construct one and every fourth rancher 2 new watering points.
c/ Enlargement and improvement of existing facilities.
d/ Assuming estimated needs for mach:nery purchases as follows: one of 20 farmers wo,ld need 50 HP tractors and one of 12
would n'ed 32 HP tractors with comnlementarv eouiom-nt! one of 6 wou.In c-d -unolementarv ean,nment to os uced with



ANNEX 4
Page 1
TECHNICAL SERVICES
1.        For the implementation of this project I.N.T.A. would create within
its organization a small staff of full-time, direct hire technicians led by
the Project Director. He would occupy a new position created specifically to
carry out this project, with the Head Office at Balcarce, the most strategic
location for the Project zone.  He would maintain close liaison with the Dir-
ector of I.N.T.A.'s Balcarce experiment station and regional office. Through
I.N.T.A.'s Balcarce Director he would report directly to the Director General
of I.N.T.A. The Project Director and the Director of the Balcarce station
would reach agreement on Project policies, procedures and staffing, on
I.N.T.A.'s research and administratlve back-up for the Project.   The Project
Director would be assisted by a Deputy Project Director. The Project staff
would include the field technicians, one administrative secretary, one ac-
countant, and one farm record analyst. Funds and authority available to the
Director would enable him to engage qualified technicians on contractual basis
to supplement the services of I.N.T.A.'s direct hire staff.
2.        The Project Director and his staff would be responsible for assistin
farmers in preparing individual farm development plans, for recommending loan
applications in accordance with these plans to the participating banks, and
for supervising the execution of the plans. Participating banks would make
loans only for those farm plans and contractors' machinery purchases which
would have been approved by the Project Director. They could reject but not
alter the farm plans. They would maintain close liaison with the Project Dir-
ector. Financially and administratively the participating banks would pro-
cess and supervise these loans through normal channels. Delegation of auth-
ority to branch offices, which appears to be the policy of the Banco de la
Nacion, would expedite the execution of the Project.
STAFFING
3.        Fortunately, Argentina has a good supply of university graduates in
agriculture. Not all of them have found satisfactory employment terms in
agriculture. Adequate staffing will depend on critical selection and appro-
priate remuneration. High standards for competent and dedicated services wil.
determine the success of the Project.
4.        Acceptance of modern production techniques and prudent use of loan
funds by participating farmers would to a large extent depend on the guidance
of the Project Director in organizing, training and supervising Project staff.
SURVEYS OF DRAINAGE AND WATER CONTROL, SOILS, AND IARKETING
Drainage and Water Control Surveys
5.        Investigations would begin with a reconnaissance study for the pur-
pose of:



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(a) identifying major problem areas in the Project zone;
(b) defining critical drainage districts;
(c) determining priority for detailed studies among these
districts.
The work should be initiated as soon as possible in areas where suitable maps
and aerial photographs are available. Elsewhere, new aerial photography and
rnapping may be required.
6.        These studies would accelerate investigations already planned by
the Direccion de Hidraulicos of Buenos Aires Province. This agency is re-
sponsible for hydrology and flood control in the Project area. It has some
staff and facilities. Inadequate financial support has been a factor contri-
buting to poor maintenance of drainage canals. The Government is aware of
this problem and has increased the allocation for the coming fiscal year.
7.        Technical staff for this study can be locally recruited or trained,
with the exception of one drainage engineer (12 months), one hydrologist
(6 months) and one geologist (6 months). The loan would make provision for
the cost of these experts.
Soil Surveys
8.        When one or more critical drainage districts would have been iden-
tified and designated as high priority in terms of need for further study anc
improvement potential, semi-detailed soil surveys would be initiated. The
major purpose of these surveys would be the preparation of:
(a) soil classification and land suitability maps;
(b) feasibility reports for land development in each drainage
district.
9.        Some investigations of this kind have already been planned and/or
initiated by I.N.T.A. and by the Provincial Government of Buenos Aires.   Qua2
ified technicians can be locally recruited or trained, with the exception of
one resident soil scientist (24 months) and one soil scientist consultant
(6 months). Funds for these experts would be provided in the proposed loan.
Financing through the proposed loan would enable I.N.T.A. to complete surveys
in critical drainage districts within a 3-to-4-year period. At the present
rate of accomplishment this task would have required at least 10 years.
Earketing Studies
10.       M¢arketing studies would have the overall objectives:
(a) to project the long-run supply prospects and to study the
supply potential of Argentina's major livestock producing
areas;



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(b) to project long-run demand prospects for meat and livestock
products in local and major overseas markets;
(c)  to define policies for necessary adjustments in location,
organization and operation of the livestock production and
processing industry.
11.       A comprehensive study has just been carried out with the purpose of
defining major production zones and the respective processing capacity. Data
collected have not yet been fully analyzed. Reports have not yet been pub-
lished. The sponsoring and executing agencies are Consejo Nacional de
Desarrollo (CONADE) and Junta Nacional de Carne (JNC).
12.       The proposed marketing studies would be planned and linked with the
ongoing studies. Initially, a group of internationally recognized technical
and marketing experts would carefully scrutinize the vast amount of informatior.
already available but not yet fully evaluated. It would define the gaps in in-
formation. It would plan the research projects which are of highest priority
for efficient organization of the industry.
13.       In the short run, there are no serious problems of marketing cattle
and beef produced in the Project area. The incremental production can be read-
ily processed and marketed at home and abroad.  However, the Government is pre-
paring projects similar to this pilot project for other suitable areas of
Argentina (Corrientes and Misiones provinces). The proposed marketing studies
would be important prerequisites to investment in those areas and to further
expansion of the industry. In the long run, therefore, these studies assume
high priority. Funds for recruiting qualified experts with international repu-
tation have been provided in the loan.
14.       Niature and scope for these three studies and organization for their
implementation would be defined and agreed upon by the Argentine Government anc
the Bank.



ANNEX k
Table 1
FIVE-YEAR COST AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE COMPONENT FOR TECHNICAL SERVICES
TO PROJECT FARMS, BALCARCE LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Item                                  Total Cost       Foreign Exchange
US$             US         %
Project Director                        150,000       150,000      100
Deputy Director                          34,200           0-         0
Technicians                             681 400          __          0
Administrative Staff                     82,100           --          0
General kxpenses                        718,100         28,700        4
Vehicles, Office Equipment, etc.        268,4LO       1079i00        40
TOTAL FIVE-YEAR COST                  1,934,200        286,100       15



ANNEX 4
Table 2
ESTIMATED COST AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE REQUIREMENTS OF
DRAINAGE AND SOIL SURVEYS AND MARKETING STUDIES
Related to Balcarce Project
Estimated Foreign
Estimated       Exchange Component
Total Cost      Amount    Per  ent
--- in US$ ---
I.  DRAINAGE AND SOIL SURVEYS
A. Local Staff, Equipment,
Building + Materials
1. Local Staff i                       742,500         --         0
2. Aerial Photographs,
Mosaics + Maps                      620,730,      310,364     50
3. Photo Interpretation Equipment       52,315        26,157     50
4. Soil Survey Accessories              10,174         5,087     50
5. Laboratory Equipment
+ Accessories                       81,572        40,786      50
6. Office Equipment + Accessories      83,813        33,525      40
7. Laboratory Building                525,000        131,250     25
8. General Expenses for Survey        372,620          --         0
Sub-total                      (2,488,724)     (547,169)    22
B. Expatriate Consultants, Imported
Equipment + Materials
1. Expatriate Consultants              36,000         36,000    100
2. Vehicles + Accessories             250,676        250,676    100
3. Contingencies                       100,000       100,000    100
Sub-total                        (386,676)     (386,676)   100
TOTAL COST DRAINAGE AND SOIL SURVEYS 21     2,875,400       933,845     32
II. MARKETING STUDIES
A. Local Staff, Equipment
+ Materials                           120,000         18,000     15
B. Expatriate Staff + Overseas
Expenses                              120,000        120,000    100
TOTAL MARKETING STUDIES                       240,000       138,000     57
Based on estimates of INTA, Department of Hydraulics, Provincial
Government of Buenos Aires, and Bank's soil expert.
Does not include salaries of staff already employed by INTA.
Based on estimates of CONADE.



ARGENTINA
PIDJECTED INCOtME OF L°°° HECTARE REPRESEWTATIVE RANCI
HEBD SIZE TAJETu   1.800 LAM! ANIMAL UNlTS
COWU'LN   RANCH MYWIMUIT
(in Jauary 1966 prices)
E A R
CATECORY                 ~~~~~BeZ%r .     1         2         3         1z        5         6         7          lS        9         10T
CATEnoRY                           Befor     t
Development               2         3          ,        579                                                1
PRICE PER HEAD (PESOS)
Male Weaner Calves (Stockers)                         1o,8oo    10,800    11,400    12,00    12,600    13,200    13,800    13,800    13,800    13,oO0     13,800
Female Weaner Calves                                   9,600     9,600    10,200    10,800    11,400    12,000    12,600    12,600    12,600    12,600    12,600
PRICE PER KILOGRAM LIVE WEIMHT (PESOS)
Male Weaner Calves (Slaughter)                          -         -         -         -           70        70        70        70        70        70         70
9-24 Month Old Steers (Slaughter Steers)                -         -         -         -         _           55        55        55        55        55        55
Fattening Cull Females (Cowa and Heifera)                 32        32        33        34        35        36        38        38        38        38        38
Bulls                                                     44        44        44        44        44        44        44        44        44        44         44
AV   3E LIVE WEIOHT (EILIDOANS)
Male Weaner Calves (Stockers)                            180       18O       190       200       210       220       230       230       230       230        230
Female Weaner Calvea                                     160       160       170       180       190       200       210       210       210       210        210
Male Weaner Calvea (Slaughter)                          -         -         -         -          250       250       250       250       250       250        250
9-24 Month Old Steers (Slaughter Steers)                -                        -              -          460       460       460       460        460       460
Fattening Cull Female, (Cows and Heifers)                390       390       400       410       420       430       440       440       440       440       440
Bulls                                                    650       65o       650       650       650       650       650       650       650       650       650
NUMEEI HELD SOID
Male Weaner Calves (Slaupter)                           -         -         -         -           78        93      107        118       129       129        129
Male Weaner Calves (Stockers)                            161       161       161       233       156       185       215       236       259        259       259
Female Weaner Calves                                      61        61        61        53       102       188       150       264       308       308       308
9-24 Month Old Steers (Slaughter 64    )                -         -         -         -         -           77        90       106       122       128       128
Fattening Cull Females (Cowa and Heifer,)                 80        80        80        55        59        57        85        99       147       177        177
Bulls                                                      4         4         4         4         4         4         5         7         77
CATTLE SALKS (t1OOBAND PESOS)
Male Weaner Calves (Stockers)                          1,738,8   1,738.8   1,835.4   2,796.0   1,965.    2,442.0   2,967.0   3,256.8   3,574.2    3,574.2   3,574.2
Female Weaner Calves                                      5.6      5.6       622.2     572.4   1W162.8   2,256.0   1,890.0   3,326.4   3,880.8   3,880.8    3,880.8
Male Weaner Calves (Slaughter)                            -         -         -         -      1,365.0   1,627.5   1,872.5   2,065.0   2,257.5   2,257.5    2,257.5
9-24 Month Old Steer, (Slaughter Steer,)                  _         -         _         _         _      1,i48.1   2,277.0   2,681.8   3,086.6   3,238.4   3,238.4
Fattening Cull Females (Cow, ard Heifer,)                718 8     748 8   1,056.0     766.7     867.3     882.4   1,421.0   1,655.3   2,457.8   2,959.4    2,959.4
Bulls                                                    114,4     1 114.    114,4     1.4.      l1,4      114,4     143.0     200.2     200.2     200.2     200.2
Sub-Total                                         3,187.,    3,187.6  3,628.0   4,249.5   5,475.1   9,270.1,  10,570.5  13,185.5  15,457.1  16,110.5  16,110.5
or0i  SALES (THOUSAND PESOS)
Wool                                                     493       493        493      493       493        493       493       493       493        93       493
Sheep (Slaughter)                                        15        145       145       145       145       1145       145      145        1145      145       145
Cash Crops                                             2.550     2,550     2,550     2,550     2.550     2,550     2.550     2.550     2.550      2,550     2,550
Sub-Total                                         3,188     3,188     3,188     3,188     3,188     3,188     3,188     3,188     3,188      3,188     3,168
ITAL SALES (iTHDUAID PSOS)
TOTAL ESTIMATED INCOME                              6,375.6  6,375.6   4,816.0    7,437.5   8,663.1. 12,1k58.4  13,758.5  16,373.5  18,645.1  19,295.5  19,298.5
Wool Sales:       Annual shearing of 725 head of sheep with a 4.0 kilograe average clip produce. 2,900 kilogreas of wool.  Thio is sold at an average of 170 pesos
per kilogram producing an anual income of 493,000 pesos which in *stimated to remain constant during the 10-year period.
Sheep Sales:      It is estimated that 20 percent of the flock would be sold annually and that an additioral 10 to 20 percent would be slaughtered and consumed
on the ranch but only the 20 percent sold are shown as cash income. This results in en annual eale of 145 head of sheep at an average price of
1,000 pesos producing an annual Inome of 145,000 pesos which is estimated to rmain constant during the 10-year period.
Cash Crop Sales: Cash crop sales ara baaed on wheat and are estimated to remain constant during the 10-year period.
Price,:            All prices are in terms of constant January 1966 pesos.



AROENITNA
PRDJECrED INCOME OF 1.000 HFJTARE REPRESETATTVE RANCH
HERD SIZE TAR0OET  1.700 LAPOR ANIAL UNITS
FIM!AL    R   _IMVUOFYAT
CATEGORY                      4Dvelopeent     1         2         3                  5    -   6         7         8         9        10
PRICE PER HEAD (PESOS)
Male Weaner Calves (Stockerm)                       10,800    10,800    10,80o   11,400    11,400   12,000    12,600    12,600   12,600    12,600    12,600
Female Weaner Calves                                 9,600     9,600     9,600   10,200    10,200   10,800    11,400    11,400   11,400    11,400    11,400
PRICE PER KILOaRAM LIVE WEIGHT (PESOS)
Fattening Cull Females (Cows aznd Heifers)              32        32        32       33        33        34       35        35        35       35        35
Bullsl                                                  44        44        4h       44        44       44        44        44        44       44        h4
9-24 Month Old Steers (Slaughter Steers)       5         5    -         -             -                 55        55        55
AVERAGE LIVE WEIGHT (KnOaMBIS)
Kale 'Weaner Calves (Stockers)                         180       I80       180      190       190       200      210       210       210      210       210
Female Weaner Calves                                   160       160       160      170       170       180      190       190       190      190       190
Fattening Cull Females (Cam and Heifers)               390       390       390      400       400      410       420       420       420      420       420
Bulls                                                  650       650       650      650       650      650       650       650       650      650       650
9-24 Month Old Steers (Slaughter Steers)                 -         -         -        -         -       420      420       420       420      420       420
NCER HEAD SOLD
Hale Weaner Calves (Stockere)                          161       161       161      186      1'e       a8!      ko        231       246       2        2
Female Weaner Calves                                    61        61        61       56        69        87      100       178       198      1         10
Fattening Cull Fales (Cows and Heifers)                 60        60        80       58        58        62       80        90       108      108       108
BUlls                                                    4         4         4        11        4         5        5         5         5        5         5
9-24 Month Old Steers (Slaughter Ster)                   -         -         -        -         -        54       61        69        76       81        81
CATTLE SAIS (TAISAAD PESOS)
9_24 Month Old Steers (SlAughter Steers)                 -                   -        -               1,247.4  1,409.1   1,593.9   1,755.6  1,871.1   1,871.1
Male Weaner Calve (Stockrs)                           1,738.8  1,738.8   1,738.8   2,120.4  1,872.5   2,233.0  3,616.0   2,910.6   3,099.6   3,099.6  3,099,8
Female Weaner Calvw                                    585.6     585.6     585.6    571.2     703.8     939.6  1,1110.0  2,029.2   2,257.2  2 257.2   2,257.2
Fattening Cull Females (Come and Heifers)              748.8     748.8     998.4     765.6    765.6     864.3  1,176.0   1,323.0   1,587.6   1,587.6  1,587.6
bile                                                   1114.      1.4                         11.       143.0    1143.0   1143.0     143.0     143.0   1143,0
Sub-Total                                       3,187.6   3,187.6   3.,37.2   3,571.6  3,456.3   5,417.3   6.5114.1  7,999.7  8,843.o   8,958.5  8,958.5
oITER SALES (raDusAND PEsos)
Wool                                                   493       493       493      493       493       493      493       193       493       493      493
Sheep (Slaughter)                                      145        .15      145       145      145       15        145      1115      145      1145      145
Cash Crops                                           _2,550    2.550     2,550     21550    2.550     e.550     2,550    2.550     2,550     2,550    2,550
Sub-Total                                        3,188    3,188     3,188     3,188    3,188     3,188     3,188    3,188     3,188     3,188     3,188
WTAL SALES (THOUSAND PESOS)
TOTAL Estimated Incoee                           6,375.6  6,375.6   6,625.2   6,759.6  6,644.3  8,605.3    9,702.1  11.187.7  12,031.0  12,146,5  12,146.5
Wool Sales:       Annual shearmg of 725 head of sheep with a 11.0 kilogram average clip produces 2,900 kilograns of wool.  This is sold at an average of 170 pescp
per kilogram producing an annual income of 493,000 pesos which is estinated to remain constant during the lO-year period.
Sheep Sales:      It is estimiated that 20 percent of the flock would be sold annually and that an additional 10 to 20 percent would be slaughtered and consimed
on the ranch but only the 20 percent sold are shown as cash income. This results in an annual sale of 1415 head of sheep at an average price
of 1,000 pesos Droducing an annual inceme of 145,000 pesos which is estimated to remain constant during the 10-year period.
Cash Crop Sales:  Cash crop sales are lasea on wneat and are estimated to remain constant during the 10-year period,
Pricea:            All prices are in terms of constant January 1966 pesos.



ARGENTINA
PROJECTED OPKRATING INX0ME AND EXPENBSE: 1.000 ha REPRSENTATTVE FARM
00NPLZ! RANCH DEVEL0PMET
(in NO   '000; J&az  y 1966 prices)
Before                                                      Year c! Developmert
Developsent      1         2        3      _          5        6          7P                   9        10        11         12
OPERATING INCOM6E                          6.376       6.376               8       .    6d 12.458     1    3.759        18.Qs5      19.299    19,299    19.299     19,299
OPERATING WEa  1ss
Wages                                   780         780      780       780     -780      860      860        8o60     1,0i0     1,0k0     lhoi      1,OkO      1,CijO
Cattle Prhurcs2                         320         320      _        -         720      720      720       720       560         560       560       560       560
Salt and Mineral     -                   63          63       79      105       119      136      15i       161       16i         16Q       164       16Q 16#
Sanitation                               94         106      150      219       273      3431     416       l67       507         507       507       507        507
Weed ControW                            -           -        -         -        -                 -          --
Refertilizing and Reseeding             -           -        296      518       7t0      7I0      7bo0      Th         740        740       710       740        74O
Sheep Shearing                           25          25        25       25       25       25       25         25        25         25        25         25        25
Harvesting   penses                     971         971      971       9        971      971      971        971       971        91        971        971       971
Repairs and Maintenae                   151         161      171      174       218      237      237       237        237        237       237        237       237
Combustibles                            113         143      143       188      226      263      263        263       263        263        263       263       263
Taxes                                    71          71        75       84      131      152      271        335       401        428       h28        428       h28
TOTAL             2.619       2.640   2.6       3.064    kL20I   bkSM       I660      k.779      s.908  b    .s35     h.935     k.935     h.
NET OPERATING INCOME                       3.757       3.736     h.126    hi.37A   L,60     8.013     9.099    114.ss5   Uafli !1M           1          14a26     14.362
tNOTE: 1/ Purchases of bulls to replace old bulls. Bull purchases in the second and third year of development were charged to investment costs.
/ Weed control on the complete ranch development will be carried out with owned machinery. The cost for it is charged under wages, renairs and
maintenances, and combustibles.



ARGENTINA
PIDJECrED OPEIUTING INO()K AND  XPENISES: 1.000 ha REPRESENTATIVE FARK
PArIAL RANGE   VlM PHlIT
(in NO  '0O; JanuarY 1966 pric")
Before                                                    Year of Devolont
Developnt        1        2      ____      4       _         6         7                    9       10        11        12
OPERATING INODME                         6,37        6.37     6.625    6.760    6.6      8.605    9.70Z   11.188    12.031     12.17     12.1V     12.1h7   12.1107
OPERUTING lXPENSES
Wages                                  780         780     780      780      780      820      820       820       960       960   -   960       960       960
Cattle Purnhasea/                      320         320     -        -        1400     640      560       560       400       400       1400     I400       400
Salt and Mineral                       63          63       69       79       86       93      102       102      102        102       102       10Z       102
Sanitation                             914        103      1214     1514     181      210      2142      258      277        273       273       273       273
Weed Control                           -           -        10       2D       30       30       30        30        30         30       30        30        30
RefertiUsing and Reseeding            -           -        115      201      287      287      287       287       287       287       287       287       287
Sheep Shearing                          25         25       25       25       25       25       25        25       25         25        25        25        25
Harvesting Rpenses                     971         971     971      971      971      971      971       971       971        971      97m       971      9m1
Repairs and Maintenance               151         161      164      164      187      196      196      196       196        196       196       196       196
Combustibles                          143         143      113     13       173      203      218       218      218        218       218       218       218
Taxes                                   72          72       72      73       81       96      138       16l       183        183       183       183      183
TOTAL                 2.619       2,638    2,473    2.640    3.231   3.586    3.589     3,631     3,6145     3.645     3A&5      3A5       3.645
NET OPERATING INDMKM                      3,756       3.737   4.152    4.120    3jhl3    5.019    6.133     7,557     8.386      8.502     8.502    8.5C2     8.502
NOTF:  g   For replacnsent of old bulLe. 9ull purchasee in the  eo     and third year of development are charged to the investuent costs.



ARGENTINA
FINANCIAL PROJECTION RE: OPERATIONS OF A 1,000 HA. REPRESENTATIVE FARM
COKPLETE RANCH DEVSL0PENiT
(in N  '000; Jamaaz 1966 prices)
Before                                    Year of Development
Dev.     1        2       3       4       5   of7 D                        9      10       11     12
Operating Income            6,376   6,376   6,816   7,438   8,663   12,458  13,759  16,374 18,645    19,299  19,299  19,299  19,299
Operating Expenses          2,619   2,640   2,690   3,064   4,203    4,445   4,660   4,779    4,908   4,935   4,935   4,935    4,935
Net Operating Income        3,757   3,736   4,126   4,374   4,460    8,013   9,099  11,595 13,737    14,364 14,363   1.,364 14,364
Cash Contrfyution to      )
Investment-               )           683     602     809     -        -       -       -        -       -       -      -       -
Loan Repaymentr-/         )   500     -       -       -       -      2,233   2,233    2,233   2,233   2,233     -      -       -
Interest Payment3/)                   273     787   1,351   1,675    1,675   1,340   1,005      670     350     -      -       -
Technical Service Fe 4/                18      52      90     112      112      89      67       44      23     -      _       _
Balance after Debt
Service                     3,257   2,762   2,685   2,124   2,673    3,993   5,437    8,290  10,790  11,758  14,364 14,364   14,364
Annual Difference 5/          -      (495)   (572) (1,133)   (584)     736    2,180   5,033   7,533   8,501  11,107 11,107   11,107
Accumulated                   -      (495) (1,067) 2,200) (2,784)   (2,048)    132    5,165 12,698   21,199  32,306 43,413   54,520
Loan Outstanding              -     3,645   6,851  11,167  11,167    8,934   6,701    4,468   2,335     -              -       -
Value of Inc eased
Cattle Stock/               -        -       -       -       -        -    29,978      -       -       -       -      -     33,993
1/ Farmers' cash contribution accounts for 15 per cent of the total on-farm investment cost.     The rest of the
farmers' contribution - 5 per cent - is provided in the form of labor and unutilized materials on the farm.
2/ 9 years of repayment with 4 years of grace.
7/ 15 per cent on the outstanding loan.
/ 1 per cent    on the outstanding loan.
5/ As compared with balance before development. ( ) indicates negative.
'/ Value of increased stock as compared with value before development. In calculating the financial rate of
return to the individual farmer, the value of increased cattle stock was taken into account at the end of
the project life (year 12).



ARGENTINA
FINANCIAL PROJECTION RE: OPERATIONS OF A 1,000 HA. REPRESENTATIVE FARM
PARTIAL RANCH DEVELOPHEJNT
(in mm 'o0o; Jazmar 1966 price)
Before                                        Year of Development
Dev.      1       2       3       4       5       6       7      B       9       10      11      12
Operating Income        6,375    6,375   6,625   6,760   6,644   8,605   9,702  11,188  12,031  12,147  12,147  12,147  12,147
Operating Expenses      2,619    2,638   2,473   2,640-  3,231   3,586   3,589   3,631   3,645   3,645   3,645   3,645   3,645
Net Operating Income    3,756    3,737   4,152   4,120   3,413   5,019   6,113   7,557   8,386   8,502   8,502   8,502   8,502
Cash Contrtiution to )
Investment-   2/                   338     497     395     -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       _
Loan Repayment-   /  )    500      -       -       -       -     1,312   1,312   1,312   1,312   1,312     -       -       -
Interest Payment3/,                137     470     826     984     984     787     590     394     197     -       -       _
Technical Service Fee4/   -          9      31      55      66      66      52      39      26      13     -       -       _
Balance after Debt
Service                 3,256    3,253   3,154   2,844   2,363   2,657   3,962   5,416   6,654   6,980   8,502   8,502   8,502
Annual Difference5/       -         (3)   (102)   (412)   (893)   (599)    706   2,160   3,318   3,724   5,246   5,246   5,246
Accumulated                         (3)   (105)   (517) (1,410) (2,009) (1,303)    857   4,255   7,979 13,225 18,471    23,717
Loan Outstanding          -      1,806   4,457   6,561   6,561   5,249   3,937   2,625   1,313     -       -       -       -
Value of IncrM sed
Cattle Stock f/           _        -       -       -       -       -    13,552     -       -       -       _       _    14,832
1/ Farmers' cash contribution accounts for 15 per cent of the total on-farm investment cost. The rest of the farmers'
contribution - 5 per cent - is provided in the form of labor and unutilized materials on the farm.
2/ 9 years of repayment with 4 years of grace.
'/ 15 per cent over the outstanding loan.
b7/ 1 per cent over the outstanding loan.                                                                                 II
3/ As compared with balance before development.   ( ) indicates negative.
6/  Value of increased stock as compared with value before development.   In calculating the financial rate of
return to the individual farmer, the value of increased cattle stock was taken into account at the end of
the project life (year 12).



CENTRAL BANK OF ARGENTINA
STATEMENT OF PROJECTED CASH FLOW
RE: OPERATIOIS PIrAININ TO TIEPKj..
(In NO    illJ  ns Ja    y   1966 pril   )
Y E A R  O F  D E V E LO P M E N T
CASH INFIOW                 1        2       3       4s       5       6       7        8       9      10       11      12      13      14      15       16      17       lb      19      20      21
(1) Loan from IBRD             1.44    431      838     758     391       --      -       --       --      -       -        __      _        _      __       __       _       __      __      __       _
(2) Collections from
Participating Banks 1/      -         7      13       19     105     267     502      519     574     531     452      301     384     422      452     406      371     333     309     290      294
(3) Interest Earned 2/           5      25       69     124     170      196     193     189      185     181     176      170     165     158     151      143     135      125     115     1C4      91
(4) Exchange Risk Cover 3/       4      22       59     106     1.46     168     165     162      159     155     151      146     141     136     129      123     115      107      99      89      78
(5) Technical Assistance
Fees 4/                      2       11      30       53      73      84      83       81      79      77       75      73      71       68      65      61       58      '4      49      4i1      39
TXA1L INFILOW              155      496   1,009   1,060      885     715     943      951     997     944      854     690     761      784     797     733      679     619     572     527      502
CASH OUTFLOW
(1) Repayment of Principal
to IBRD 5/                  --       --      --       --      --     122     129      137     145     154      163     173     183      194     206     218      231     245     259      275      --
(2) Interest on IBRD Loan 6/    --       --      --      --       _      170     163      155     147     138     129      119     109       98      86      74       61      47      33      17
(3) Comnitment Charge 7/         9        8       6       3        1      -       -        --      --       _       _       _       __       __      __      _        _       _        _       _ 
(14) Loans to Participating
Banks                      1144     431     838      860     668     220      451     462     511     462      376     217      293     321     341     283      237     185      146     111     389
(5) Technical Assistance
Costs                       33       54      72       71      70      35      35       35      35       35      35      35       35      35      35      35       35      35       35      35      35
TOTAL OUTFLOd              186      493     916      934     739     547      778     789     838      789     703     544      620     648     668      610     564     512      473     438     424
CASH BALANCE                (31)      3      93      126     146     168      165     162     159      155     151     146      14l     136     129     123      115     107       99      89      78
(1) Exchange Risk Fund 5/        4       22      59      106     146     168      165     162     159     155      151     146      141     136     129     123      115     107       99      89      78
(2) aovernment Assistance 8/     (4)      4      --       --      --      --       --      --      --       -       -       --               --      --       --              --       --      --      -
(3) I.N.T.A. q/                (31)     (23)     34       20      --      --       --      __      __       __      __      __       __      __      __       _       _        __      __      _ 
1/  Term of loan to participating banks is 9 years of repayment including 4 years of grace for relendings to farmers and 5 years of repayment including 1 year of grace
for relending to contractors.
2/  7 per cent on tne outstanding.
3/ 3 per cent on the loans to farmers and contractors is collected by Central Bank to cover part of the foreign exchange risks.
T/ 1.5 per cent on the loans to farmers and contractors is collected by Central Bank to cover technical assistance costs: 1 per cent is farmers' contribution, and
i per cent is the contribution of particlpating banks.
5/ Repa,'ent term -s 20 years including 5 years of grace.                                                                                                                                         o 2
;/ 6 per cent on tne outstanding.
7/ 3/a of 1 per cent co undisbursed pcrtion of loan.                                                                                                                                               I
t/  See Para.     -n ma:in text.                                                                                                                                                                    Q,
9/  See ;?ara.    in Ta3l text.   30oth  overrinmet and 1.".T- contrliw.ticns appear in brackets as deficits.    Jnbracketed figures indicate repayment.



CENTRAL BANK OF ARGENTINA
STATMN    OF PROJECTED ASSETS LIA-
BILITIES AND ACCI LATND NET INCOME
BR: OFUUTIOUS P9tAI1JIIG )O FlEPEDJECT V/
ci. hm        1* '1      aullon )
Y E A R O F D E V E L O P 1 E N T
1       2      3       4       5       6      7        d      9       10      11      12      13      14      15      16      17      id      19      20     21
ASSETS
(1) Rediscounts to
Participating Banks         144     568   1,393   2,234  2,797   2,750   2,699   2,642   2,579   2,510   2,434   2,350   2,259   2,158   2,047   1,924   1,790  1,642   1,479   1,300   1,395
(2) Cash 2/                      4      26      85     191     337     505     670     832     991   1,146   1,297   1,443   1,584  1,720   1,849   1,972   2,087   2,194   2,293   2,382   2,460
TOTAL ASSETS                148     594  1.478    2.425   3.134  3.255   3.369   3,474   3,570   3,656   3.731   3.793   3,843   3,878   3.896   3,896   3.877   3.836  3.772   3,682   3,855
LIABILITIES AND NET INCOME
(1) IBRD Loan                 I144     575   1,413   2,171   2,562   2,712   2,583   2,446   2,301   2,147   1,984   1,811   1,628  1,434   1,228   1,010     779     534     275      --      -
(2) Goverrmvent Assistance       4       --     --      --      -       -       -       -       --      -       --      -       -       -       --      -      -       -       -       --      --
(3) Exchange Risk Fund 2/        4      26      85     191     337     505     670     832     991   1,146   1,297   1,443   1,584  1,720   1,849   1,972   2,087   2,194   2,293   2,382   2,460
(4) I.N.T.A. Contributions      31       54     20       _       --  --     --          --      ---             -       --      -       --      -       --      -      -       --      --      --
(5) Net Incomze
Accumulated                --     (35)    (61)    (40)     63     (37) 1/ 38     116     196     278     363     450     539     631     724     819     914   1,011   1,108   1,204  1,300
Annual                    (35)    (26)     21     103     172     75      78      80      82      85      87      89      92      93      95      95      97      97      96      96      95
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND
NET INCOMEf                 18      594   1,478   2.425   3.134   3,255  3.369   3.474   3.570   3,656   3.731   3.793   3.843   3.878   3.896   3.896   3.877   3.836   3,772   3,682   3,855
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                           L.
1/ See also the footnotes of Table 1.
7I Foreign Exchange Risk Fund is kept in cash form.
/ Interest on IBRD lcan is capitalized and accumulated over first five years (M$N 272) and appears here as negative net income.
Is os
FS 
oi



CENTRAL BANK OF ARGENTINA
STATEMENT OF PROJECTED INCOME AND E1XPENSES
RE: OPERATIONS PERTAINING TO THE PROJSCT 1
(in J    uama   19,66   m  U dion)
Y E A R O F 11 S V E L O P M E N T
1       2       3        4       5       6       7       o       9      10      11       12      13      l4      15      16       17      113     19      20      21
INCOME
(1) Interest Earned                 5      25      69     124     170     196     193      189     185     181     176     170     165      158     151     1l3     135     125      115    loi.      91
(2) Excnange Risk Cover             4      22      59     106     146     168     165      162     159     155     151     1b6     141     136      129     123     115     107      99      89       78
(3) Teennical Assistance Fee        2      11      30      53      73      84       83      81      79      77      75      73      71       68      65      61      58      5b      49      bJ       39
TOTAL INCOME                   11      58     158     283      389     448     441     432     423     413     402     389      377     362     345     327     308      286     263     237     208
EXP&:INSESS
(1) Interest Payment to IBRD       --      --      --      --      --     170      163     155     1l7     138     129     119      109      98      86      74      61      47       33      17      --
(2) Commitrment Charge              9       8       6       3       1      --       --      --      --      -       --      --       -       -       --      --      -       --       -       --      -
(3) Technical Assistance Cost      33      54      72      71      70       35      35      35      35      35      35       35      35      35      35      35       35      35      35      35      35
(4) Exchange Risk Fund              4      22      59     106     1l6      168     165     162     159     155     151      lb6     liii    136     129     123     115      107      99      89      78
TOTAL ERPENDITURE              46      84     137     180      217     373     363     352     341     328     315      300     285     269     250     232      211     189     167     141     113
NET INCOME 2/                 (35)    (26)     21      103     172      75      78      80      82       85      87      89      92      93      95       95      97      97      96      96       95
1/ See also the footnotes of Table 1.
2/ () indicates negative.



ARGCNTINA
HERD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
COMPLETE RANCH DEVELOPMEIT
RANCH SIZE: 1.000 HETARES
HRAD SIZE: 1,800 LARGE ANIL UNITS
BE                                                   T E A R
CATECORY                            UNIT      DEVEI0PMENT  _   a) 1   2b)      3(C)     4       5        6        7       8        9         10
HERD COMPOSITION
Breeding Age Females                              No.          1460         460     630     800     900     1,000    1,050    1,150     1,150   1,150     1,150
Bulls                                                           20           20     24       30      35       40        44       46        46      46        46
Nursing Calves                                                 (322)       (322)   (466)    (624)  (738)    (860)    (946)   (1,036)   (1,036)  (1,036)  (1,036)
9-24 Month Old Steers                              a-                               -        -       78       92       108      118       130     130       130
9-24 Month Old Heifers                                         100          100     100     180     210       180      280      210       210     210       210
Fattening Cull Females (Covs and Heifere)          a             70(d)       90      70      70      70       100      120      170       200      200      200
TOTAL (Not Including Calves)                  a            650(e)      670     8214   1,080   1,293    1,412     1,602   1,694     1,736    1,736    1,736
M)RTALITY
9-24 Month Old Steers                                           -            -       -       -       -          1        2        2         2       2         2
9-24 Month Old Heifers                             n            10           10      10      10      10        10       10       10        10      10        10
Fattening Cull Females (Also Breeding Age
Females)                                 10           10      10      15      11        13       15       21        23       23       23
UOSEL        20           20      20      .25     21       11        27       33        35      35        35
SAE
Male Weaner Calves (Slaughter)                     a            _(r)         -       -        -       78       93       107     118       129      129      129
Male Weaner Calves (Stockers)                      a            161         161     161      233    156       185       215     236       259      259       259
Female Weaner Calves                               *            61           61      61       53    102       188       150     264       308      308      308
9-24 Month Old Steers (Slaughter Steers)                                                     -       -         77       90      106       122      128      128
Fattening Cull Females (Cows and Heifers)                       60           60      80       55     59        57        85      99       147      177       177
Bells                                              U             4            4       4       4       4         4        5        7         7        7         7
TOTAL                                                      286          286    306      345     399      604       652      830       972   1,008     1,008
PURCHASES
Breeding Age Heifers ($18,000.00)                                -           -      150      }50     -       -         -       -         -        -         -
Breeding Age Bulls ($80,000.00)                                  4(g)         4       8       10      9         9         9       9         7        7         7
TOTAL                                                        4            4    158      160       9        9         9        9         7       7         7
PRODUCTION DATA
Stocking Rate Per Hectare                                       0.8         0.8     1.0      1.2     1.4      1.6       1.8      1.8      1.8      1.8       1.8
Effective Calving Percentage                       5             70          70      74       78     82        86        90       90       90       90        90
Adult Animal Mortality (Excluding Calves)                         3           3       3        3      2         2         2        2        2        2         2
(a) The first year 200 hectares of improved pastures are established.
(b) The second year 150 hectares of improved pastures are established and 150 breeding age heifers are purchased.
(c) The thlrd year 150 hectares of improved pastures are established and 150 breeding age heifers are purchased.
(d) Fattening cull females are estimated at only 0.5 large aniral unit since they woulo be maintained only about six months.
(e) The before development inventory was:  m  head of cattle (660 large animal units); 725 head of sheep (115 large animal units) and
26 horses (25 large animal units). The number of sheep andlhorses are assumed to remain constant and increased carrying capacity due
to development is shown by an increase in cattle numbers.
(f) Starting with the fourth sear, male nurs:ng calves are sold as followis: 50 percent as stocker-feeder calves; 25 percent as fat
weaners for slaughter and 25 nercent are retained for fatten:rg and are sold at about 214 months of age as fat steers.
(g) Artifical insemination could be -seo on sone ranches and could reduce bull purchase costs.



ARGENTINA
HERD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PARTIAL RANCH DEVELOPMENT
RANCH SIZE:  1,000 HECTARES
HERD SIZE:  1.200 LARGE ANIMAL UNITS
Y E A R
CATEGORY                    Unit      Before         l(a)    2(b)    3 c)    h       5       6       7        8         9        10
Development
hERD COMPOSITION
Breeding Age Females                          No.          460        L60     530     600     650     700    750     800      800      800         800
Bulls                                                       20         20      22      24      25      28     30      32       32       32          32
Nursing Calves                                 n          (322)      (322)   (372)   (438)    (494)   (560)  (616)   (656)    (656)    (656)      (656)
9-24 Month Old Steers (Slaughter Steers)          n-                    -      -        I      55      62     70      77       82        82         82
9-24 Monoh Old Heirers                 * 3X                100        100     100     .30     ]9Q     160    180     130      130       130        130
Fatten.ing Cull Femalpq (Cows ga-GHeifeTr)       -          70(d)      90      70      70      70      -cV   100     120      120       120        120
TOTAL (N"t Including Calves)              n           650(e)     670     722     824      a    1,04j  IJ130   1,159    1,164     1,4        ,164
MORTALITY
9-2h Month Old Steers                                        -          -       -       -               1      1        1        1        1          1
9-24 Month Old Heifers                                      10         10      10      10      10      10     10      10        10       10         10
Fattening Cull Females (Also Breeding
Age Females)                        10         10      10      12      12       8     10      10       12       12          12
TOTAL                                                  20         20      20      22      22      19      21      21       23       23         23
SALES
Male Weaner Calves (Stockers)                              161        161     161     186      164     185    210     231      246      246        246
9-21l Month Old Steers (Slaughter Steers)                               -       -       -       -      54      61      69       76       81         ae
Female Weaner Calves                                        61         61      61      56       69      87    100     178      198      198        198
Fattening Cull Females (Cows and Heifers)      n            60         60      80       58      58      62     80      90      108      108        108
Bulls                                          n             4          4       4       4       4       5      5        5        5        5          5
TOTAL                                                 286        286     306     304     299     393    456      573      633      638        638
PURCHASES
Breeding Age Heifers ($18,000.00)              n                       - (f)  -  50     50      -       -      -       -        -        -          -
Breeding Age Bulls ($80,000.00)                n             4          4       6        6       5       8      7       7        5        5          5
TOTAL                                     n             4          4      56      56       5        8      7       7        5        5          5
PRODUCTION DATA
Stocking Rate Per Hectare                                  0.8        0.8     0.9      1.0     1.1     1.2    1.2     1.2      1.2      1.2        1.2
Effective Calving Percentage                   %            70         70       70      73      76      80     82      82       82       82         82
Adult Anmal Mortality (Excluding Calves)       %             3          3        3       3       3       2      2       2        2        2           2
(a)  The first year 100 hectares of improved pastures are established.
(b) The second year 100 hectares of improved pastures are established and 50 breeding age heifers are purchased.
(c)  The third year 100 hectares of 3mproved pastures are established and 50 breeding age heifers are purchased.
(d)  Fattening cull females are estimated at oply 0.5 large animal unit since they would be maintained only about six months.
(e)  The before development inventory was:   977 head of cattle (660 large animal units); 725 head of sheep (115 large animal umits) and 26 horses
(25 large animal units).  The number of sheep and horses are assumed to remain constant and increased carrying capacity due to development
is shown by an increase in cattle numbers.
(r)  Artificial insemination could be used on sone ranches and could reduce bull purchase costs.



ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND COSTS OF THE PROJECT
(in nailions January 1966 prIsm)
Year of Development            1     2     3      4      5      6      7             9     10    1U      12     13    l1
Incremental Net
Production,                   (2)    h3    134    197    258    6b1 1,7h3   2,616  3,3h1  3,707  3,761  3,766  3,122  1,835
Increased Valqe of
Cattle StockI                 -    -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -    1,968  3,936  5,608
Total Net Benefits
of the Project                (2)    43    134    197    258    641  1,743  2.6h6  3,341  3,707  3,761  5.73h  7,058  7t443
On-Farm Investment Costs      294 1,012   2,029  1,89i   977    -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -
Technical Assistance Costs y   57     71     86    76     76    -      _      _      _      _      _      _      _      _
Total Investment Costs
of the Project                351 1.083   2.115  1,970  1.053   -      -      -      -      -      -      _      -      _
NOTE: V    Refers only to 700 farms participating in the proJect.  Includes taxes (except a possible increase of export tax proceeds
which  is only marginal. The life of individual farm investments is estimated at 12 years.
1 Increased value of cattle stock at the end of each individual farm development period (year 12) as compared with value
before development.
Refrers to the requirements only for 700 farmers.
C D
a- 2 



A R G E N T I N A
BALCARCE LIVESTOCK PROJECT
/       '%     ENrRE     R/OS
SANrA FE               /
U RU GUA Y
CORDOBA                             /
I iE W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BENOS AIE
Province of Buenos Aires         '
I        *0***-*      Balarce Livestock Project                                                          P to <   r     '
j th^, Hills of Tandilia and Ventania
i~~~~~~~5P                        )n- '  rann    lzn
a'--3~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~                                5 r  i
I                     ..,, rt' n*s; Iml E                                                                                8°A l N
I                          -~~~~~~~~~~                                        -   -~~~~ 6   -
I                                                                                                   _  _   _  _  __I
Bo2bc/,,Blanco                     0   A   T LA 
LANDS
WELL DRAINED       FREQUENTLY SUBMERGED (Problematical
7A~                                                                            lands where investigation on soils and
SOUTN AMERICA       J                                               Plains            drainage has been recommended)
Sierras and        Depressions
River basins
C1  t y                                                                          Wet plains
MARCH       Project           o          50        too
MARCH 1966                                                                                                                   IBRD-1715



