RESTRICTED
Report No. P-553
F-ILE COPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
June 29, 1967



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION A ND DEVELOPIMENT
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR                             FJ For consideration
EXECUTIVE                                                           on a date to be
DIRECTORS'                                                          anounced
MEETING               FROM: The Secretary                           R67-96/1
July 13, 1967
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CORRIGENDUM
1.        Please make the following corrections in the Report and Recom-
mendation of the President to the Executive Directors:
a. In paragraph 12 the first three sentences should read as
follows:
"The cost of the project is estimated at $39 mil-
lion equivalent of which $34 million represents
on-farm investment and purchase of machinery by
contractors. The ranchers and contractors would
provide from their own resources, respectively,
20% and 40% of their requirements, or a total of
$7 million equivalent. The balance, $27 million,
wculd be provided as credits to the ranchers and
contractors by the participating banks in
Argentina."
b. In paragraph 15 the first sentence should read as follows:
"The loan will also meet the foreign exchange cost
of technical services furnished through INTA and
cover 50% of the total cost of the studies of
drainage, soils and marketing to be carried out by
INTA and CONADE."
2.        Please insert the attached Table as Annex 8, Table 2 in the
Appraisal Report.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
President's Council
Executive Vice President, IFC
Vice President, IFC
Department Heads, Bank and IFC



ANNEX 9
,Tabla 2
IMPACT CF THE PROJECT CN PRODUCTICN IND EXPORTS
Year of DeveloPment
t                 5 ii.
Incremental Productiorn/   1,000 tons:
liveweight         8.7       58.6        79o8
Added in Fa.ttening Area_!/  1,000 tons:
liveweight         5.2       35.2        47.9
Gross Incre-mental         1,000 tons:
Production                 liveweight        13.9       93.8       127.7
Percentage Exported             %             50         50          50
Exportable Surplus         1,000 tons:
liveweight         7.0       46.9        63.9
EXportable Surpl,us in     1,000 tons:
Carcass Weight2/           carcass weight     4.2       28.1        38.3
Export3ble surplus in      1,000 tons:
Carcass Weight  et of      carcass weight     4.0       26.7        36.4
processing LossLU
Value of Export_/          In US$ million     2.3       15.2.       20.7
Debt Service to IBRD       In US$ million     0.8        2,4         1.9
Net Foreign Exchange        In US$ million    1.5       12.8        18.8
Earnings
NOTE: 1/   Incremental gross production of 700 farms participating in the
project was oonsidered.
/ 60% of the incremental production.
2/ 60% of the liveweight of the exportable aurplua .
4/ Processing loss is estimated at 5%,
5/ Unit price used was US$ 570 per ton.



REPORT AND RLECOI.NEDMATION OF FHE PRESThETQ\
TO TILE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE ARGETTrINE REPUBLIC FOR A
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$15.3 million to
The Argentine Republic for a livestockc project.
PAR' I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed loan would be the first to be made to Argentina
in more than five years.    During this period the country several times
experienced serious economic and financial difficulties and while from
time to time Government efforts to overcome them were made, it was not
possible to obtain sufficient support to implement a comprehensive pro-
gram. The Government which took office in June 1966 has now formulated,
and begun to implement, a far-reaching program to stabilize the economy,
restore public finances, and lay the foundation for future growth. I
consider that the policies now being followed open the way to a resump-
tion of Bank lending.
3.        The following is a summary statement of the previous Bank loans
to Argentina, as of May 31, 1967:
No.     Year             Borrower              Purpose   Amount   Undisbursed
(U.S. Stmi1ionj
288 AR 1961       The Argentine Republic        Roads     32.0       10.2
308 AR 1962       Servicios Electricos          Power     93.4
del Gran Buenos Aires,
S.A. (SEGBA)
Total (less cancellations)           15T1I
of which has been repaid               8.9
Total now outstanding                 116.5
Amount sold                    1.5
of which has been repaid     0.9       0.6
Total now held by Bank                115.9
Total und.isbursed                                10.2
No IDA credits have been made to Argentina. IFC is presently holding for
its own account about $6.4 million of loans to three Argentine industrial
companies.



- 2 -
4.        Execution of the road project has been slow.   In July 1965,
$16.5 million of the loan was cancelled. At the same time, steps were
taken to improve the admirnistration of the project.  Subsequently, the
closing date was postponed for one year to December 15, 1966.   On the
basis of progress and performance, a further postponement to December
15, 1967 was approved in April 1967.
5.        Other loans to Argentina are under consideration and will be
presented to the Executive Directors if the projects prove acceptable,
and if the progress of the Government's economic program continues to be
satisfactory.  One loan would be to SEGBA to help finance its expansion.
The Government has also asked the Bank to examine the proposed El Chocon-
Cerros Colorados hydro-electric project.
6.        Preliminary discussions on a program for livestock development
took place, in early 1965, in Buenos Aires between the Government and a
mission of the Bank. As a result, a project preparation mission was
organized under the FAO,'IBRD cooperative program. The mission completed
its report in August 1965.   In November, the Argentine Government applied
to the Bank for a loan to help finance a livestock project in the general
area of Balcarce in the southeast of Buenos Aires province.
7.        The appraisal of the project was carried out in Argentina in
January and February of 1966 and was followed in April by discussions in
Buenos Aires on the institutional aspects of the proposed operation.
Negotiations took place in Wsashington in late June and early July with
an Argentine delegation, headed by lr. Pedro Camilo Lopez of the Banco
Central de la Republica Argentina (the Central Bank), and consisting of
representatives of the ins-titutions which are to play a part in the opera-
tion.  A change of government intervened during the negotiations and the
presentation of the proposed loan to the Executive Directors was postponed
pending the formulation of the new Government's econouic policy.   A mission
visited Argenti-ma in April 1967 to bring the Bank's information on the pro-
ject up to date.
PART II - DESCPTPTION OF TIE PROPOSED LOAN
8.       3Brrov;er:                 The Argentine Republic
Amount-.:                 $15.3 million
Purpose:                 To help finance a credit program
and provide technical services
for livestock development.



Terms and Amortization:   20 years, with principal re-
payment beginning August 1, 1972
and ending August 1, 1987.
Interest Rate:           6% per annum
Commitment Charge:        3,'8 of 1% per annum
Relending Terms:         The Central Bank which would
administer the loan on behalf
of the Borrower, would relend
the proceeds at 7% to Banco de
la Nacion Argentina and other
participating banks. The banks,
in turn, would relend at 16%,
this rate includ-ng a 3% payment
to the Borrower for assuming the
exchange risk and a 1% charge for
technical services. Loans to ranchers
would be for 9 years, including 4
years of grace, and to machinery
contractors for up to 5 years, in-
cluding 1 year of grace. Repayments
to the Central Bank exceeding amorti-
zation payments to the Bank would be
loaned again.
PART !II - THE PROJECT
9.        An appraisal report entitled "Balcarce Livestock Development
Project" (TO - 540a) is attached.
10.       Agriculture and ranching are of foremost importance to Argen-
tina. Environment and tradition have favored animal husbandry, which
provides about 40% of export earnings and employs a large number of
people in rural and urban areas. In the past 20 years, however, the
cattle industry has experienced short-term fluctuations but no sustained
expansion. With better grassland and herd management, modern processing
and marketing, long- and medium-term credit, and appropriate government
policy, animal husbandry could contribute significantly to an imorovement
in Argentina's economy.   In recent years, mounting protection in importing
countries and growing competition has hindered the expansion of meat ex-
ports. Nevertheless, market prospects for low-cost producers are favorable
in the longer run. In view of growing demand for grains, it is more desi-
rable to increase beef production by raising the carrying capacity of land
through improved pasture and herd management, than by expanding acreage
under pasture at the expense of wheat and corn. It is the purpose of the
project to demonstrate that increased ranch productivity is technically
feasible and financially rewarding.



- 4 -
11~       The project consists mainly of the provision to cattle ranchers
and farm machinery contractors of long and medium-term credit and techni-
cal services for the carrying out of ranch development plans approved
by a Project Director appointed by the Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia
Agropecuaria (INTA) and acceptable to the Bank. The project also includes
drainage and soil studies to be carried out by INTA with the help of
consultants and beef marketing studies to be undertaken by the Consejo
Nacional de Desarrollo (CONADE) also assisted by consultants.
12.       The cost of the project is estimated at $39.1 million equiva-
lent of which $34 million represents on-farm investment. The ranchers
and contractors would provide from their own resources, respectively,
20% and 40% of their requirements, or a total of $9.6 million equivalent.
The balance, $24.4 million, would be provided as credits to the ranchers
and contractors by the participating banks in Argentina. At first there
would be only one participating bank, the government-owned Banco de la
Nacion Argentina. However, provision is made in the loan documents for
the admission of other banks as and when, in the judgment of the Central
Bank and the Bank, they are equipped to handle medium- and long-term
lending. The Bank loan would be disbursed to the participating banks
by the Central Bank and would meet 50% of their loans to ranchers and
contractors.
13.       The interest rate of 16%, which the participating banks would
charge the ranchers and contractors, is in line with the maximum lending
rates of Argentina banks under ceilings fixed by the Central Bank. This
is an artificially low rate of interest in a country in which prices
have risen at an average 25-30% per annum in recent years. However, it
is hoped that as progress is made in slowing inflation, the general level
of interest rates will fall. Provision is made for the adjustment of
interest rates charged under the project.
14.       The ranchers and contractors would obtain their goods for ranch
development through existing commercial channels.   Since individual pur-
chases would be small, and spread over a five year disbursement period,
bulk procurement would not be possible. Most of the goods to be purchased
by them are produced in Argentina, many of them by local subsidiaries of
internationally known foreign companies, which also operate service and
repair shops in the project area. Argentine industry is protected and
prices for most of the equipment that will be used are somewhat higher
than the landed cost of imported goods would be. The loans made by
participating banks and the purchases made by the ranchers and contractors
will all be in pesos. The foreign exchange component (direct and indirect)
of farm development expenditures is estimated to be roughly 25%.



- 5 -
15.       The loan will also meet 50% of the foreign exchange cost of
technical services furnished through INTA and cover 50% of the total
cost of the studies of drainage, soils and marketing to be carried
out by INTA and CONADE. Purchases of vehicles and certain special
equipment to be used by INITA in rendering technical services to
ranchers and in carrying out its studies would be made in bulk on the
basis of international bidding, with a preference of 15% in lieu of
duty.
16.       About 700 ranchers are expected to make use of the credit
program to pay for pasture improvement on some 220,000 hectares, machi-
nery, fencing and livestock watering and handling facilities. In addi-
tion, contractors would avail themselves of the credit program to buy
farm machinery and equipment, for contract work on ranches too small
to justify their owners purchasing machinery themselves. Availability
of long- and medium-term financing for competently prepared and supervised
ranch development plans should result in substantial increases in
calving and stocking rates and in cattle sales. On completion of the
ranch development plans, the net income of the ranchers should triple
or even quadruple. From the standpoint of the economy as a whole, annual
foreign exchange earnings from additional meat exports should, after 10
years, amount to about $20 million on the assumption that half of the
additional production would be exported.
17.       Further benefits should be gained from the demonstration value
of new techniques, which the Argentine ranchers should readily adopt.
If successful, the project may set a pattern for livestock projects in
other provinces, where the cattle industry is 'ess advanced than in the
Buenos Aires Province. Consequently, the beef marketing studies included
in the project would assess long-term supply prospects, the beef produc-
tion potential of the various provinces, and the location, organization
and operations of meat processing industries.   In the light of the findings,
the Government should be able to determine the scope and location of
future livestock projects and any changes which might be needed in beef
processing and marketing.
PAR' IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Argentine Republic and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Central
Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
19.       These draft Agreements contain obligations usual in livestock
development projects. The Bank has reached agreement with the Borrower
with respect to: the instructions to be issued by the Borrower to the
Central Bank, see Loan Agreement, Section 5.01 (b) and 6.02; the opera-
ting policies and procedures for carrying out the project, see Loan
Agreement, Section 5.01 (c) and Project Agreement, Section 2.01 (b);



-6-
thie rediscounting of loans made by Banco de la lMacion and any other
participating bank, see Loan Agreement, Section 5.01 (d) and Project
Agreement, Section 2.01 (c); the text of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Central Bank and Banco de la Nacion, see Loan Agreement,
Section 5.02 and 6.02, and the procedures with respect to the Special
Account to which Loan proceeds are to be credited and which will be
administered by the Central Bank, see Loan Agreement, Section 5.12
(a) and (c).
20.       As is customary in Bank loans for livestock development,
Section 5.12 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement provides that repayments
received by the Central Bank on account of the loans extended under
the project, and not yet repaid to the Bank, shall be used for the
purpose of continuing the livestock development program within a period
of 20 years from the date of the Loan Agreement.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
21.       The comprehensive economic program for 1967 introduced by
the Government holds out promise of substantial progress toward internal
financial stability and a major strengthening of the balance of payments,
thus providing the needed basis for more rapid economic development. The
main highlights of Argentina's current economic policy are a broad program
for containing inflation through restraint in fiscal, monetary, incomes
and price policies and, on the external side, a 40% devaluation of the
peso accompanied by a substantial liberalization of trade and payments.
Many pitfalls will have to be avoided if the ambitious targets of the
stabilization program are to be achieved, but the firmness of the present
government's commitment to it provides a basis for optimism. The deva-
luation has been followed by a sizeable capital inflow, foreign exchange
reserves are increasing, and if necessary, Argentina can draw on stand-by
credits totalling $400 million negotiated with the II4F, the U.S. Treasury,
and commercial banks. With its 1967 program now largely in operation,
the Government is preparing measures to promote the basic structural re-
forms and reallocation of resources necessary to put the economy on the
road to more rapid and sustained growth. High on the list of priorities
are an attack on managerial inefficiency and massive overstaffing in the
public sector, a new law which would open the way for foreign private
investment in petroleum, and tax incentives to spur investment in industry
and agriculture.
22.       Argentina's formidable debt service burden should prove mana-
geable, given its basically strong export position, the continued main-
tenance of adequate incentives for major exports, and the prudent debt
management policies the Government has enunciated. The Central Bank
estimates that Argentina's total foreign indebtedness was about US$ 2.7
billion at the end of 1966 and that the total debt service cost to the
balance of payments in 1967 will be over $6h0 million, equivalent to
nearly 35 percent of current account earnings. The cost of servicing the



- 7 -
debt is scheduled to diminish relatively slowly over the next two years
because of the short-term structure of the debt. After 1969, however,
debt service payments Lall off sharply, the total amount of amortization
and interest falling due in 1971 being about US $ 225 million, which
would be under 10 percent of current account earnings, assuming the
latter expand at about the rate experienced in recent years.
23.       The attached memorandunm gives the main features of the present
economic situation in Argentina.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGMEEME1T
24.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply wdth the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PAhl' VII - RECONMENDATION
25.       I recormend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
APPROV/AL OF LOAN TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO U.S. $15,300,0OO.
RESOLVED:
That the Bank shall grant a loan to The Argentine Republic in
an amount in various currenciesequivalent to fifteen million three hun-
dred thousand United States dollars (U.S. $ 15,300,000), to mature on and
prior to August 1, 1987, to bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%)
per annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be
substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in
the form of Loan Agreement (Balcarce Livestock Project) between the
Argentine Republic and the Bank, and the Project Agreement (Balcarce
Livestock Project) between the Bank and Banco Central de la Republica
Argentina, which have been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Washington, D.C.
June 29, 1967
Attachments



