Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16497
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT FINANCE PROJECT
(Loans 28060-28067-MOR)
April 18, 1997
Private Sector Development, Finance and Infrastructure Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Dirham (DH)
DH1.00         =  US$0.12
US$1.00        =  DH8.52
1980    1985   1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
DH per US$     4.334   9.621   8.043    8.15   9.049   9.651    8.96   8.469
(end of
period)__ _ _                                                          _ _ _ _
DH per US$     3.937  10.062   8.242   8.707   8.538   9.299       9.2    8.52
(period
average)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCM                   Banque Commerciale du Maroc
BCP                   Banque Centrale Populaire
BMCE                  Banque Marocaine du Commerce Exterieur
BMCI                  Banque Marocaine pour le Commerce et l'Industrie
BNDE                  Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
CDM                   Credit du Maroc
SAL                   Structural Adjustment Loan
SGMB                  Societe Generale Marocaine de Banque
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President              Mr. Kemal Dervi~
Director                    Mr. Daniel Ritchie
Division Chief              Mr. Amir AI-Khafaji
Responsible Staff           Mr. Lorenzo Savorelli, Financial Economist
Mr. Mauro Chiesa, PSD Specialist
Mr. Alexandru Munteanu, Consultant



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT FINANCE PROJECT
(Loans 28060-28067-MOR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                         Page
PREFACE..........................................................................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .1
A.        Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .....................................              1
Objectives ............................................1
Components ............................................1
Country Strategy Role ............................................1
B.        Achievement of Objectives ...........................................                 2
Capacity Investments ............................................2
Quality of Investment Performance Indicators .....................                2
Explicit Investment Performance Indicators ........................               3
Implicit Investment Performance Indicators ........................               4
Improving the Economic and Administrative for
Framework for Exporters ............................................6
Strengthening the Institutional Capabilities of Financial
and Other Institutions ............................................7
C.        Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................................            8
D.        Project Sustainability ............................................8
E.        Bank Performance ............................................9
F.        Borrower/GOM  Performance ...........................................                 10
G.        Assessment of Outcome ...........................................                     11
H.        hmmediate Portfolio Action ...........................................                11
I.        Lessons Learned ...........................................                           11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



PART II: STATISTICAL INFORM ATION ..........................................                    13
Table of Contents ..................................................                             13
APPENDICES ..................................................                                    52
A.              Chart Showing Export Performance ................................               52
B.    Map of Morocco No 28373 .53



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT FINANCE PROJECT
(Loans 28060-28067-MOR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Industrial Export Finance
Project (IEFP) loans in the Kingdom of Morocco. The eight loans are to seven private sector
commercial banks and one public sector development bank and total US$70 million. Approved by
the Board on May 5, 1987 and signed on July 27, 1987, effectiveness occurred between Jan. 28
and Mar. 16, 1988 as the individual borrowers fulfilled their respective obligations. The loans
closed on Dec. 31, 1995, with US$66.0 million disbursed for 82 allocations.
This ICR was prepared by Mauro Chiesa and Alexandru Munteanu of the Private Sector,
Finance, and Infrastructure Division, Country Department I, of the Middle East and North Africa
Region and was reviewed by Charles Sterling, Financial Analyst, by Amir Al-Khafaji, Division
Chief, and by Rene Costa, Project Advisor, Country Department I.
Preparation of the ICR was based on material in the project files and interviews with prior
task managers who supervised the project and with public and private sector representatives in
Morocco connected with these loans. Preparation was substantially delayed due to poor
supervision of both the investment components and the institutional reform components, by both
the Bank and the agencies. The report has been sent for comment to the Government of Morocco.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT FINANCE PROJECT
(Loans 28060-28067-MOR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The US$70m Industrial Export Finance Project (IEFP) was the first attempt, within an extensive
financial sector development program comprising nine projects, to target both the investment needs
and the institutional reform needs of the exporting community of Morocco. The IEFP met
essentially all of its project timetable milestones, with the only variance being a four month delay in
effectiveness. The loans were 96 percent disbursed. Based on the speed of subscription and
disbursement, a subsequent project, the US$170m Industrial Finance Project (IFP) was designed
for both the exporting and the domestic industrial sector. The IFP had even higher milestone and
disbursement rate success.
Project Objectives and Design
1.    The objectives of the IEFP were to: (a) expand the base for manufactured exports, by
finncing investments and helping develop export marketing capabilities; (b) strengthen the export
promotion and appraisal capacities of the each borrowing bank; and (c) improve the economic and
administrative conditions under which exporters operate.
2.     The US$70m IEFP project comprised two programs: (a) a US$69.7m investment program
to finance capital investments by the exporting sector and technical assistance programs for the
commercial banks that borrowed and on-lent the funds; and (b) a $0.3m program to finance the
training of BNDE staff to assist exporters in carrying out industrial subsector feasibility studies.
The former program lent funds to seven private sector banks (60 percent of funds) and one public
sector development bank (40 percent of funds) to finance: (a) capital investment plans by the
exporters, (b) working capital needs of the exporters, and (c) the banks' own institutional
expansion program in the area of export financing. The latter two objectives were never pursued
by the exporters or the banks. To be eligible for financing under the IEFP, the capital investment
projects had to: (a) have a minimum of new production capacity dedicated to the export market, (b)
demonstrate a minimum IRR of 12 percent and (c) be at least 40 percent financed. The eight loans
to the eight banks bore repayment terms of 15 years, while the sub-borrowers generally enjoyed
terms in the 4-8 year range. The mismatch in repayment terms was designed to allow the banks to
relend (or "recycle") the funds to subsequent eligible projects prior to their maturity under the 15-
year IEFP loan.
3.    The Government had undertaken to execute a series of reforms to achieve the third
objective. This included the improvement of the fiscal, financial, and administrative environment
through a VAT exemption on certain eligible goods; the earlier release of bank guarantees related



ii
to imported materials; and having three Government agencies undertake reviews of procedures on
documentation, industrial analysis, and export promotion. These reforms were parallel to those of
the banks, with no linkage between either the public agencies or the components. The Government
assumed all foreign exchange risk borne by the banks.
Evaluation of Objectives
4.     According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the investment program's targeting of the
export sector was justified by observed underinvestment in a sector which was capable of
generating foreign currency earnings at a time of foreign currency shortage. The institutional
reforms were justified by observed limitations in the institutional framework in which exporters
had to operate, in terms of both the administration and financial infrastructure.
5.    The initial subscription and disbursement success support the validity of the investment
objective, as do the subsequently observed success of exporters, the improved value-added of
certain industrial sectors, and the exporting success of Morocco in general. The initial success,
however unfortunately reduced the perceived need for vital supervision to ensure recycling and
modification of terms to reflect the changing needs and domestic capital markets.
6.      The extent of the institutional reforms needed and the time required for their
implementation were both underestimated.  In addition, the investment program  and the
institutional reform program were never linked through conditionality, as they should have been.
Also, the IEFP and the IFP never supported each other through shared conditionality, even though
they shared common target sectors. The institutional reform program involved several Government
agencies which were not functionally linked and which had no common implementation agency.
There was also a lack of any implementation or performance indicators.
Implementation Experience and Results
The assessment of performance was hampered by several factors, including poor supervision by
the Bank (one visit during a four-year period) and poor communication of eligibility and
performance criteria by the Bank. It took the Bank nine years to issue a reporting format for the
investment component; the Borrowers have performed commendably, given such lateness.
7.    Initial investments. The initial subprojects (82 allocations) performed superbly, exceeding
both the return and the exporting eligibility criteria. Ninety-one percent of funds went into the
food, textile, garment, and equipment industries, whose export value-added rose from 52 to 62
percent in the 1985-91 period. Regional distribution was diffuse and generally consistent with
population distribution and lending went to both large and small businesses on a proportionate
basis. Lending tended to be in small amounts, clearly skewed by the Bank's lending limit (approx.
US$ 500,000). With 14 of the allocations being for common Borrowers, and practically all
problem credits being either restructured or repaid, the Borrowers demonstrated good risk-sharing
and management skills. Business failures were generally associated with factors exogenous to the
IEFP, such as droughts, trade disputes, the Persian Gulf war and limited management skills. No
funds were drawn by the banks for their training needs in the area of export finance.
8.    The Borrowing Banks were supposed to recycle the repaid funds from the initial subloans
during subsequent periods until the IEFP loan came due. This did not occur as the Bank did not
properly supervise and implement the process. There was also no mechanism within the IEFP loan



iii
structure to limit this variance, and to control the inherent interest of the Borrowing Banks in
benefiting from long-term deposits, which they were not required to either relend or prepay. As
domestic interest rates were substantially higher than the IEFP rates, the interest arbitrage was also
attractive. The result was that the IEFP essentially recapitalized seven private sector banks and
one public sector development bank with long-term deposits, the proceeds of which did not serve
the intended purpose.
9.    Institutional reforms.  Modest design features, lack of performance indicators, no
centralized or linked implementation agency, lack of supervision, no communication with other aid
agencies, and no linkage to subsequent operations all undermined implementation and the
assessment thereof. Anecdotal evidence suggests that some reforms occurred, albeit very late. The
institutional reforms were intended to facilitate the export community's access to new markets.
Given the initial success of the investment program and the lateness of the reforms, the additional
export capacity financed by the IEFP may not have enabled exporters to access foreign markets,
but displaced domestic markets instead.
10.    Sustainability. Sampled results from the portfolio of initial subloans indicate that the
loans supported, (a) higher value-added industrial sectors, (b) well-managed sub-borrowers, and
(c) a generally robust expansion of the export sector during the implementation period of 1989-93.
The lack of recycling of funds by the IEFP and the tardy implementation of sectoral reforms by the
GOM, however, suggests that additional opportunities for sustainable development were not
pursued.
11.    Bank/Borrower performance. The number of Moroccan public institutions involved in the
sectoral reform program, the number of Moroccan banks involved in the investment program, the
size of each subloan, and the high supervision needs of the recycling program suggests that projects
such as the IEFP are high-maintenance assets. The lack of supervision and communication by the
Bank is therefore not acceptable. The Borrowers' commendable responses to our tardy requests
for information suggest that the capacity existed to cooperate, had the Bank only required it.
Assessment of Outcome
12.   The IEFP is rated unsatisfactory overall. This reflects (a) the initial satisfactory outcome
of the investment program, which unfortunately was not supervised and implemented by the Bank
during the subsequent recycling period; and (b) the poor design of the institutional reform program
and the poor supervision and implementation thereof by the Bank.
Immediate Portfolio Action and Lessons Learned
13.   IEFP. The US$66m, 15-year loans started repayment in 1991 and will finish in 2002.
The remaining terms are no longer competitive with the local market. Pre-payment penalties
should be waived so as to encourage pre-payment and free up the GOM counter-guarantee for
worthier needs.
14.   IFP.   The US$169m, 20-year loans were signed in 1990 and have a 20-year repayment
term, leaving a substantially larger potential for amendments and recycling so as to avoid the errors
and costs of the IEFP. Post-closing date supervision and implementation of a loan recycling
program are recommended so as to meet the original objectives for the term and to avoid



iv
recapitalizing domestic private sector institutions with foreign currency and tying up a valuable
counter-guarantee. If no interest is expressed, the Bank should encourage pre-payment as above.
Lessons Learned
15.   * Institutional reform components which deal with a variety of agencies require a central
implementing agency, interlinked and realistic components, performance indicators, linkage with
other aid agencies, and supervision.
* Recycling of funds is an excellent loan feature, but one that requires continuous
communication and supervision, often beyond closing dates, if its potential is to be achieved.
*Mid-term reviews and 'retrofitting" of the various terms on an as needed basis could, in
the future avoid many of the problems described above.



I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT FINANCE PROJECT
(LOANS 28060-28067 - MOR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLFMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Obiectives
Objectives
1.    The Industrial Export Finance Project (IEFP, or 'the project') was designed to help
develop the capacity of export-oriented industries and reform the institutional framework in which
they must function. In line with the Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPA) program, its
objectives were to continue improving the economic and administrative framework, with a
particular focus on exporters. Specifically, the project's objectives were to: (a) expand the base of
manufactured exports, by financing investments in export industries and helping develop export
marketing capabilities; (b) improve the economic and administrative conditions under which
exporters operate and overcome the anti-export bias that prevailed in the country; and (c)
strengthen the promotion and appraisal capabilities of financial and other institutions concemed
with export sector expansion.
Components
2.    The project consisted of two components: an investment component and a technical
assistance component. In aggregate, there were eight Bank loans totaling US$70 million. US$69.7
million was in the form of lines of credit to eight financial internediaries -- one public sector
development bank (BNDE) and seven commercial banks (BCM, BCP, BMCE, BMCI, CDM,
SGMB, and WAFABANK) -- and US$0.3 million was intended for the training of and technical
support for BNDE staff to enable them to assist exporters and carry out industrial subsector
studies. The lines of credit were to finance eligible export-oriented investment projects of industrial
enterprises. Table 4B shows the performance (loan disbursements) of individual banks. The
technical assistance component was to finance consultant and advisory services for training
BNDE's staff and provide them with technical support for undertaking studies of various industrial
subsectors.
Country Strategy Role
3.    The IEFP was part of the Bank's long term strategy to support Morocco's industrial and
trade policy adjustment process, which has been ongoing since 1983. See Table 2 for related Bank
activity in Morocco. Besides the IEFP, this strategy was supported by three earlier Bank-financed
operations, namely two ITPA loans and the Electrical and Mechanical Industry (EMI) Project. The
implementation of the ITPA program was already having positive effects, with manufactured
exports increasing by 14 percent in 1985. However, total exports of goods and nonfactor services
increased by only 2.5 percent in constant prices due to the poor performance of the phosphate
sector and the foreign debt of Morocco, which was substantial at 88 percent of GDP. It was felt
that for Morocco to overcome the debt problem and achieve positive economic growth,
manufactured exports should grow by more than 15 percent a year over the next decade.



2
The required linkage between manufactured exports and growth was correct. Manufactured
exports increased by an average annual rate of 15.1 percent during 1987-90, but declined by an
average annual rate of 3.4 percent during 1990-921. See Chart 1 for details. As a result, GDP
grew by an average annual rate of 3.9 percent during 1988-91, and contracted by 4.4 percent in
19922. Chart 1 indicates Morocco's export experience within the elapsed timeframe of the IEFP.
4.    The project's investment objective of supporting the development of export-oriented
productive capacity was valid, since capacity utilization in the export industries was estimated at
75 percent in 1984 and was increasing as approval of the project approached in 1987. The sizable
pipeline of export-oriented investment projects substantiated this assessment. This demand was
confirmed by the rapid utilization of the lines of credit and an expanded industrial sector. This, in
turn, would have provided a better-than-expected timeframe for the effectiveness of the institutional
reform component, had it taken place. However, with the additional export capacity in place and
no facilitating institutional reform, the new exporting capacity could not find foreign markets and
may have contributed to a surplus on the domestic market, possibly explaining the recently slowing
growth rate indicated in the chart.
B. Achievement of Obiectives
Capacity Investments
5.    The success in the pace of utilization of the credit component was partially due to the
substantial experience in term lending acquired by the Moroccan banks under a number of earlier
Bank-financed projects. In addition, as of October 1986, there was a pent-up demand for
investment credit in export-oriented projects, which was estimated at a level (US$96 million)
exceeding the Bank loan amount. By January 1989, i.e., some 20 months ahead of the final date
for submission of subloan applicatiors, 90 percent of the total loan amount extended as lines of
credit was committed. Tables 4A and 4B indicate the rapid disbursement rate across all banks.
Only two participating banks, BMCI and CDM, requested minimal extensions of the final date for
submission of subloan applications, to March 31, 1991 and September 30, 1991 respectively.
Because the average disbursement period for subloans under the IF (industrial finance) was
approximately 16 months, these extensions did not affect the original closing date of December 31,
1995, which was maintained. With the final disbursement taking place on January 28, 1994, 94.3
percent (US$66.0 million) of the aggregate loan amount was disbursed; cancellations amounted to
5.7 percent (US$4.0 million). Table 3 provides the timetable.
Quality of Investment Performance Indicators
6.    The IEFP's objective of financing investments in export-oriented enterprises cannot be
accurately assessed because of the lack of Bank-required data on the actual performance of
subprojects in terms of absolute or relative export performance. It was required that the
participating banks provide the Bank with annual reports on the implementation status of
subprojects and sub-borrowers and their export performance during the three years following
See Kingdom of Morocco - Republic of Tunisia. Export Growth: Determinants and Prospects, World
Bank report no. 12947-MNA, October 1994.
2   See Kingdom of Morocco. Country Economic Memorandum: Toward Higher Growth and
Employment, World Bank report no. 14155-MOR, September 15, 1995.



3
completion of each individual subproject. No such reports were ever specified by the Bank,
however; hence none was ever submitted and, in the November 1990 to December 1995 period,
only one mission took place in February 1992 the principal focus of which was the subsequent
loans. With no periodic and systematic monitoring of subproject implementation, particularly in
terms of export performance, credit performance, manpower generation, and financial sector
performance and economic sustainability, it is not possible to fully evaluate the effectiveness of this
program. In December 1995 the Bank undertook a mission to verbally emphasize the information
requirements. After the performance information was forwarded by the banks in April through
June 1996, the Bank then issued an information outline and undertook a second mission to finalize
a basic database. The Borrowers appreciated the information outline, which was the first that they
had seen advanced by the Bank, but noted that much time had passed. Given such a timelag, all
Borrowers performed commendably in responding to our request. Table 6 includes the responses
of the Borrowers to our most recent request. The information outline was also used to emphasize
the similar needs of the US$170m Industrial Project Financing Program (Loan 3136), which was
signed in 1990, involved the same banks, suffered from the same supervision deficiencies, and
closed on June 30, 1996. The performance criteria for the IEFP were as follows.
Explicit Investment Performance Indicators
7.    There were no explicit investment performance indicators.  The original criteria for
eligibility were that (a) at least 40 percent of the additional production attributable to the
investment was to be exported, (b) the internal rate of return had to be at least 12 percent, and (c)
equity funding of the project had to be at least 30 percent. The exporting volume standard was not
a meaningful measure, for several reasons.  External factors such as the country's trade and
political policies and a severe drought hampered the textile and food-related sectors. It should also
be noted that export volume is by no means the only measure of success, since product quality,
delivery, pricing, and distribution systems are also meaningful barometers of export success.
Furthermore, many of the investments justifiably went into distribution assets and production de-
bottlenecking, which do not necessarily mean higher export volumes although they result in much
healthier margins and/or better products.  The financial return criteria were also questionable,
since investments could be joint, common, or stand-alone. Often capacity expansion projects and
'greenfield" projects cannot be adequately measured by returns alone, since other factors such as
marketing and quality are also involved. The equity benchmark is more of an input criterion, and
bears little relevance to the various sectors. Most problematic is that there was never any follow-
up outline or enforcement by the Bank, thereby depriving the project of the necessary adjustments
to more meaningful benchmarks.
8.    Under the loan agreements, the financial performance of the sub-borrowers was to be
monitored for the first three years after start-up of the project; unfortunately, there was little
follow-up during the 1990-95 period. Based on the information that was built from June 1996 to
date, the following results show an impressive economic performance.



4
Criterion                  Respondents                 Average
Current D/E* Ratio'               58                   > 78 %
IRR*                              27                    32 %
New Employment*                   25                    100
D/E**                              13                   0.88:1
('domestic revenue to export revenue ratio),
as estimated by the borrowing bank)
( * * actual ratios, as reported by company)
As indicated, only 13 of the subloans (SGMB and BCM) had comprehensive data for the "overall"
three-year period reported. The remainder of the subloans represented partially reported data. The
results, albeit not comprehensive, suggest a substantial positive economic impact. As indicated in
the bar charts found in Table 6, which show revenue experiences for the sub-borrowers, there is a
basis to suggest that the project is economically sustainable.
Implicit Investment Performance Indicators
9.     Sectoral performance. The subloans were segmented by industrial sector. The following
indicates the value-added to the economy for each sector.
Sector                                 Subloans                 Val. Added
(%/6)                      (%/0)
1985         1991
Food (processed) industries               12.2                 26            31
Textiles and garment                     73.8                   16           25
Machinery, transport, and equipment       6.0                   10            6
Source:
World Development Report 1994.
The Borrowers had a clear emphasis on textiles and garments, which increased from 16 to 25
percent of the export value-added, followed by agribusiness, which also improved. Since textiles
are less prone to droughts then is agriculture, the diversification suggests an increasingly less
volatile, less seasonal, and more sustainable export sector.
10.   Regional distribution. The sub-borrowers were grouped pursuant to GOM 1994 census
categorization and population distribution. The following table suggests that the center and
northwest regions, with 56 percent of the population, received 71 percent of the lending. Many
regions saw substantial lending activity, while the center, which contains Casablanca, was well



5
above average, and the poorer, more and south was well below average. Tables 14 and 15 provide
a more detailed dispersion by province and region. See also Appendix B.
Region              Share of Population    Share of Subloans
(%/0)               (%/0)
Center                      31.5                46.2
Center-North                9.6                 4.3
Center-South                7.2                 8.9
Northwest                  24.8                 24.5
East                        7.3                 8.0
South                       9.7                 2.1
Tensift                     9.9                 5.6
Source:
Recensement 1994, Ministere charge de la population.
11.   Size of sub-borrower. Dividing the sub-borrowers by sales volume, with the threshold
being an annual turnover of DH150mk, lending volume was perfectly proportional to the number
of transactions for each category. This was unique, since large clients tend to develop larger
transactions and require larger amounts.
Borrowers              No. of Loans (%)         Amounts (°!
Small to midsize           65    (79)           DH501.9 k (79)
Large                      17    (21)           DH137.0 k (21)
12.   Size of loans. The lending activity by size was assessed in additional detail. The effect of
the free-lending limit of US$500,000 (an average of approximately DH4.2m  during the
disbursement period) on the amounts of loans that were processed should be noted, given the
skewed distribution of lending. Fourteen of the assets in this category included subloans going to
common sub-borrowers, perhaps to spread the repayment risk, or to expedite the processing.
Below is a frequency table. Table 5 provides a bar graph.
Amount(s)           Number               Pct. of Total
(DH)
I m or less            4                         5
1.1-5 m               35                       43
5.1-10 m              21                        25
10.1-15 m             12                        15
15.1-20 m              2                         2
20.5-25m                3                        4
25.5-30 m              2                         2
30.1 m or more         3                         4



6
13.   Credit quality. Credit quality is difficult to comment on given the passage of time, the
changes in provisioning requirements, and the effect of droughts and trade policies on a portfolio
consisting of small to medium-sized firms. Credit quality and control thereof was exceptional, with
13 of the 82 credits (including two shared credits, representing 11 sub-borrowers) showing
repayment problems over the time period but with only two showing amounts outstanding, two
other businesses shutting down, and five other businesses restructuring. All six banks with such
credits indicated that the problem loans were due to causes exogenous to the investments supported
by the subloans.
14.   Loan-to-investment considerations. The IEFP loans have terms of up to 15 years. The
subloans (or investments) generally have terms of six to eight years; the loan agreements allowed a
range of five to twelve years. Under Section 4.03 of the loan agreements, the Borrowers are
allowed to relend all amounts repaid by the initial sub-borrowers that are not yet due under the 15-
year term of our loan. The recycling opportunity is not as evident, however, since the repayment
term of our loan started in 1991, thus limiting the amount of funds available. Unfortunately, in the
absence of supervision, the Bank did verbally note this feature in February 1992 but did not
promote it or advise on its issue, and therefore the Borrowers were generally unaware of its
presence and value. Several of the banks visited in June 1996 were not yet organized to carry out
such a match-funding approach. The absence of this activity in their initial status report, and the
fact that two banks (BMCE and BCM) reported that they had almost entirely repaid (BCM is fully
repaid) on their initial subloan were discussed in the course of the mission in 1996. All the banks
indicated that the on-lending terms were now out of the market (rather than allowing the Borrowers
to on-lend at market rates, we required a minimum on-lending interest rate of 13 percent and a
maximum of 16 percent; the current market is at 10-11 percent). The residual repayment term (to
2002) that now remains is also not competitive, given that the loan repayment process has already
been underway for several years.  A few banks that were aware of the mismatch felt awkward,
since they had foreign funds that could not be utilized but had prepayment penalties. One bank,
Credit du Maroc, subsequently requested a prepayment penalty waiver, which was granted . A
prepayment penalty waiver should be considered for all Borrowers, since the lack of Bank
supervision contributed to absent recycling, which (a) inadvertently recapitalized the balance sheets
of several private sector Borrowers with foreign exchange liabilities that are of limited use, (b)
contributed to the lack of ongoing investment activity consistent with the original investment
objectives, and (c) tied up the counter-guarantee of the GOM, which may possibly be better used
elsewhere.
15.   All Borrowers noted that the soft costs associated with the processing and administration
of the subloans were prohibitive, given the research and monitoring details required by the loan
agreements and the small scale of each subloan involved. The intimidating effect of the application
process can certainly be seen in the loan size frequency table in para. 12 above. Because Section
4:03 of the loan agreement emphasized a review by the Bank as a precondition for recycling funds,
the linkage may be nontrivial. The Borrowers appreciated that such infornation needs were part of
Bank policy and certainly applicable to large-scale projects, but felt that the small scale of many of
the projects, as well as the sophistication of the sub-borrowers, made such information
requirements, had they been requested, difficult to satisfy.
Improving the Economic and Administrative Framework for Exporters
16.   The measures which the Government had intended to introduce under the IEFP to improve
the fiscal, financial, and administrative environment in which exporters operate included those
which would benefit exporters both directly and indirectly. The forner dealt with improvement of



7
rules and procedures for export financing, the operation of special customs and value-added tax
(VAT) regimes, and the rules and procedures for release of bank guarantees related to duty-
exemption of imports under the temporary admission customs regime. These measures would also
help achieve the Government's objective of establishing parity of facilities and incentives between
direct and indirect exporters by providing technical assistance to: the National Commission for
Simplification of International Trade Procedures (NCSITP), for improvements to trade
documentation and procedures; the Directorate of Industry (DI) of the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry, for carrying out subsector studies and action programs to develop new industrial
subsectors for export; and the Moroccan Center for Export Promotion (CPME), to undergo a
significant reform and to carry out a study identifying proper modes of representation abroad for
Moroccan exporters.
17.   Overall, it is not possible to measure the improvement since there were no monitoring or
performance indicators. For indirect exporters (suppliers to the end-exporter), the procedures for
preshipment export financing have reportedly not improved and export financing has not been
made available, because of continuing difficulties in monitoring the contribution of indirect
exporters to final exports. The VAT exemption on purchases of domestic inputs for export
production has not been applied in a systematic fashion. Banks have reportedly not yet streamlined
the release of their guarantees for export-related inputs imported under the temporary admission
customs regime.
18.   Some modest progress has been made in the measures which would benefit exporters
indirectly. UNDP-financed and Bank-executed technical assistance was provided to the NCSITP
with the aim of streamlining and simplifying trade procedures. Implementation of the technical
assistance, however, was reportedly hampered by the lack of dynamism of NCSITP's senior
management. The services of experts were obtained only after much delay. While significant
progress was made in the area of customs documentation, not enough attention was devoted to the
computerization of trade transactions, particularly with regard to coordination between customs
and port activities.
19.   With the assistance of BNDE, the DI (directorate of industry) was to carry out 2 to 3
industrial subsector studies every year over 3 years, with the aim of providing inputs for continued
Bank/Government dialogue on industrial subsectoral development policy. Financing of
US$200,000 was provided under the IEFP to meet BNDE's costs, with the estimated balance of
US$250,000 to cover DI to be obtained from other multilateral and bilateral sources. The first two
subsectors to be studied were leather goods and electronics, where export performance compared
poorly with the estimated potential. Because the DI and BNDE did not clearly perceive the
relevance of the studies, only one study leather goods has been carried out.
20.   With technical assistance financed by UNDP and carried out by the International Trade
Center, CPME's institutional setup for export promotion reportedly was strengthened. The
positive impact of technical assistance on CPME's operations resulted in the doubling of
government budgetary support from 1987 to 1989. Performance indicators were absent, however;
hence the linkage between CPME and the exporting community cannot be ascertained.
Strengthening the Institutional Capabilities of Financial and Other Institutions
21.   A program for institutional capacity building was to be implemented. Except for the
positive results indicated within some of the participating commercial banks' portfolios,
implementation of the program could not be monitored. As indicated in the preceding paragraphs,
institution-building has been less successful for NCSITP and DI than for CPME. For the



8
participating banks, it was agreed that their staff would be trained on problems of export
development and export financing. Lack of supervision, however, deprived the Bank of a
meaningful database in this respect.
22.   In addition to training its staff, BNDE was to: (a) carry out a two-year program of
activities in support of Moroccan exporters; and (b) improve and formalize a medium-term
corporate strategy, including plans for defining the role and position that BNDE should have in the
financial sector and an appropriate organizational setup. BNDE's export promotion program has
been implemented, although with some delay, but the US$100,000 financing allocated for this
purpose under the Bank loan was not used due to larger-than-expected complementary financial
assistance from UNDP. Because the competitive pressure of a liberalized financial environment
was not felt until several years later, BNDE's medium-term corporate strategy was formalized only
in 1992, when such a document was prepared with the help of a consulting firm. The strategy
began to be implemented in 1994.
C. Maior Factors Affectine the Proiect
23.   Factors subject to the implementing agencies' control. The participating banks have been
instrumental in expediting the utilization of the Bank loans to finance investment subprojects, in
terms of both commitment and disbursement. The banks' previous substantial experience in term
lending and implementation of their staff training programs has contributed to this satisfactory loan
utilization performance. However, their deficiency in supervising subprojects and producing
progress reports on a regular basis did not allow the institutions to benefit from the credit and
industrial-client monitoring process that is a principal element of becoming a successful export-
oriented bank.
24.   Other factors. Two external factors have strongly contributed to the quick utilization of the
Bank loans. First, the participating banks had pipelines of export-oriented investment subprojects
the foreign exchange financing requirements of which exceeded the envisaged loan amounts, with
most of the financing needs concentrated in the textiles and agro-industries sectors where Morocco
had a comparative advantage. Second, Morocco was experiencing a severe balance of payments
crisis and foreign exchange shortage and, as a result, Moroccan exporters had difficult obtaining
capital (and foreign exchange) to purchase of imported productive machinery and equipment.
25.   Factors subject to the government's control. A major reason for the lack of progress in the
implementation of policy measures and technical assistance benefiting exporters and institutions
involved in trade facilitation and export promotion was that the Government was not convinced of
the relevance of such actions, perhaps due to the quick utilization of the Bank loans. Also, the early
preparation and swift finalization of the subsequent Bank project (the Industrial Finance Project
was approved in late 1989, just slightly more than a year after the IEFP became fully effective),
preventing explicit supervision of institutional implementation. The Bank also passed up potential
leverage by requesting that the Government complete the policy reform and technical assistance
program under the IEFP.
D. Project Sustainability
26.   As indicated above, all three objectives of the IEFP have been met with varying degrees of
success. Because the three objectives were mutually reinforcing, and shortfalls in the fulfihment of
any one objective could have jeopardized the achievement or sustainability of any other objective, it
may be argued that economic sustainability was not optimized, or perhaps cannibalized. The late



9
or absent institutional reforms may in fact have contributed to a product glut in the domestic
market.
27.   The first objective, namely to expand the base of manufactured exports through the
financing of investments in export industries, can be considered achieved based on the satisfactory
pace of utilization of the Bank loans and data on the subprojects' and the sub-borrowers'
operations. Assuming that the actual export performance of subprojects financed under the IEFP
would generally be in line with the overall strong increase in manufactured exports over the 1987-
1990 period , this objective could be substantially met. The absence of institutional reforms and
the absence of meaningful supervision by the Bank can arguably be constraints to sustainability.
This is corroborated by the requirement under the Industrial Finance Project that at least 60
percent of the loans to the participating banks be used to finance export-oriented projects. Such a
requirement would not be warranted if the institutional framework allowed financial institutions a
more transparent framework so that they could take higher credit positions with exporters and with
the financing of export-oriented projects. Second, the operations of export-oriented enterprises are
likely to be seriously constrained by the marginal improvement in the economic and administrative
framework for exporters. In particular, little progress has been made in two areas of reform which
were crucial to the development of exports, namely measures benefiting indirect exporters (the
suppliers to exporters) and trade facilitation. Although the institutional strengthening of CPME
and the participating banks has shown some positive results, its impact on the sustainability of the
first objective is likely to be small, because of the limited role of CPME in the country's export
performance and the apparent deficiency in the participating banks' supervision activities.
28.   With regard to the IEFP's second and third objectives, which consist, respectively, of
improving the economic and administrative framework for exporters and strengthening the
institutional capabilities of financial and other institutions concerned with export, project
sustainability is also unlikely. As indicated above, project design, and consequently the results,
were of modest proportions, considering the need for a comprehensive and consistent program of
reforms in terms of institutions and policies which touch many fields and industries. It appears
initially that simple and noncontroversial steps were taken in the form of studies or technical
assistance, but that the subsequent in-depth examination of issues and implementation of corrective
actions was not completed.
E. Bank Performance
29.   Preparation. design. and appraisal Project preparation took about two years until Board
approval. Project design was in line with GOM's development objectives, and was an innovative
departure from the series of previous Bank projects supporting industrial development. The IEFP
was the first project emphasizing industrial export development, and because of that novel concept,
the project content was made comprehensive, with lines of credit, policy reforms, and technical
assistance. The investment component was appropriately sized and designed, with the longer
repayment terms consistent with the needs for expansion capital. Mitigating the investment
component were the technical assistance and institutional reform components, both of which
involved various implementation entities entrusted with small, often independent, yet complex
policy and institutional issues and reforms.
30.   The appraisal team had properly assessed the wide-ranging demand and the economic
potential of the IEFP in terms of investment needs. The institutional development component,
however, was not properly assessed, designed, or funded. Additionally, the complexity of issues
and obstacles that the exporting sector was facing, the absence of performance indicators, as well
as the timeframe required to formulate and successfully implement the reforms, suggests that the



10
institutional component was trivial. The Bank was expecting that most of the reforms included in
the project would be completed by 1989, within two years foliowing Board approval. This turned
out to be overly optimistic. The scope and implementation timeframe of the reform program under
the IEFP could be explained by the fact that the next adjustment operation (SAL I), which could
have covered a substantial part of such a reform program with much more leverage, would not be
in place before 1989. Since most of the planned reforms were supported by technical assistance
financed from sources other than the Bank, the appraisal team appeared simply to rely on the
implementation schedule worked out by the Government or other donors. With hindsight, the Bank
could have made a more thorough analysis of the implementation entities' capabilities to carry out
the reforms and could have associated more closely with the other donors providing technical
assistance, as well as established a set of performance indicators.
31.   Supervision. The IEFP was supervised adequately in terms of frequency during the first
four calendar years of project implementation (1987-1990), with regular missions being carried
out. There was no structured supervision mission thereafter until December 1995. The absence
of structured supervision over the 1991-1994 period is attributed to the fact that the lines of credit
already were substantially committed by 1989, with little to no appreciation for dialogue, project
feedback, facilitating amendments, or recycling of funds. With regard to the institutional reforms,
the information base is simply absent, or anecdotal at best.
32.   Project supervision has been deficient in terms of scope and follow-up  on
recommendations. The coverage of project components has been incomplete, even in the earlier
phase of project implementation when supervision missions took place once a year. The Bank
could easily have issued pro forma infonnation needs. Because the lines of credit were committed
quickly, there was a marked shift of interest toward preparing the next Bank operation and several
important areas in the IEFP were overlooked. While difficulties existed in carrying out the
policy/institutional reforms, which were the responsibility of public entities and had been reported
by supervision missions on an anecdotal basis, there was no mention of the progress made on
policy reforms, which were under GOM's direct responsibility. There was also no mention of
progress made on BNDE's medium-term corporate strategy. If the monitoring of the BNDE
component had been more thorough, the Bank would have found that GOM has frequently fallen
well into arrears on its covenanted reimbursement of foreign exchange losses incurred by BNDE
under subloans made in local currency. The extent of the issue was accurately assessed only
during the penultimate supervision visit in 1995. While the participating banks were repeatedly
reminded about the covenanted requirement to submit annual progress reports on subprojects'
operations, no evidence was found that Bank staff ever outlined what would be an acceptable form
and content. The most recent response by the borrowers to the first furnished outline was
commendable, given the passage of time. The Bank should have more carefully supervised the
above-mentioned areas and clearly informed GOM, on a regular basis, of the need to fully
implement the related reforms or to take the necessary corrective actions.
F. Borrower/GOM Performance
33.   The GOM and participating banks have cooperated closely with the Bank in preparation of
the IEFP, enabling the preparation phase to be kept within standard time limits. Effectiveness of
the project was, however, delayed due to the extended time required by the participating banks to
finalize their legal documentation. Despite the participating banks' good performance in terms of
utilization of the lines of credit, overall project implementation was unsatisfactory, since GOM was
tardy with some institutional framework reforms and did not carry out others at all. As indicated
above, GOM appeared not committed to carrying out the policy reforms, whether under its own
responsibility or under that of other public entities. GOM could have played a much needed



11
coordinating role to ensure smooth and full implementation of the policy reforms by all the public
entities concemed.
34.   Compliance with legal covenants was deficient under both the Guarantee and Loan
Agreements (Table 10). The Guarantor (GOM), the Borrowers, and the Bank share the
responsibility for this situation. The Bank contributed to this by not pointing out the areas of
noncompliance in its supervision follow-up letters. GOM did not fully protect BNDE from foreign
exchange losses arising from subloans made in local currency. Compliance by the participating
banks with the timely provision of their annual audit reports on financial statements was
problematic in the earlier years of project implementation, but was observed more recently.
G. Assessment of Outcome
35.   Overall, the project outcome is considered marginal to average. In the context of the initial
portfolio, the IEFP investment component could be considered successful in that the Bank loans
were committed expeditiously and met with substantial credit success. The increase in sales
volumes, returns, and employment by the sub-borrowers, and the value-added of the targeted
industrial sectors, also substantiates the clientele development and credit acumen of the lending
sector. The absence of instruction to the Borrowers by the Bank on recycling the funds at an
earlier point in time, and on monitoring the portfolios, deprived the banking and the exporting
sectors of the potential for sustainability and deprived the Bank of both a sustainable programn and
a valuable database for future programs. Regardless of this shortfall, however, the objective may
not in itself be the appropriate measure of success given the exogenous considerations that affect
the exporting sector. The lack of substantial progress on crucial policy and institutional reforms is
considered an unnecessary risk to the investment project results, although it could be argued that
the limited scale and design of these reforms could not have supported such a substantial objective,
even if they had been carried out.
H. Immediate Portfolio Action
36.   The IEFP has provided some valuable feedback on the subsequent IFP. The US$170m
IFP promotes both domestic and export industries through similar investment financing, to be
provided by the same participating banks. Given that it was signed in 1990 and has terms of up to
twenty years, the absence of supervision has been much shorter; hence there is potential for
effective supervision and improved investment effectiveness. Reporting guidelines should be
clearly established and supervised so as to better monitor the achievements of the investment
projects and of the institutional reforms and obtain the developmental benefits for the term of the
original loan. The recycling nature of the program requires that such supervision be extended
beyond the closing date, June 30, 1996. On-lending terms reflect larger free-limit amounts, and
more flexible term and interest rate constraints. Otherwise, the recapitalization of private sector
banks with sovereign-guaranteed facilities will, again, be the unintended outcome.
37.   With regard to the IEFP itself, the remaining term suggests that the recycling of subloan
funds is not a competitive option. A waiver of prepayment penalties should be considered to
enhance prepayment of the current loans, since the terms are no longer competitive. Without the
matching subloans, we are only providing long-term capital to the largely private sector Borrowers
and tying up GOM guarantees, which could be better utilized in other Bank operations.



12
I. Lessons Learned
38.   Notwithstanding the very favorable disbursement and the overall economic performance of
the subprojects, the real value of the project, which was the first of its kind, also lies in the lessons
learned. These lessons include the following.
39.   Desian of the institutional component. The scale and complexity of the institutional
development objective must be reflected in the respective component. Clearly the financing
allocated and the structure envisaged, involving separate local agencies, could not be expected to
provide the intended results without a coordinating counterpart.
40.   Design of the investmnent    nt.   The export-oriented objectives of the project,
while valid, were poorly designed and reflected economic activity which must deal with many
factors, and not simply the input of capital and a sales volume objective. The absence of
performance monitors, mid-term review, and lateness of the closing date further added to the
ambiguity. An annex could easily have been added to the loan agreement to stipulate the
information needed on the subloan portfolios.
41.   The pairing of 5-12 year subloans to a 15-year term was ingenious, since most successful
ventures often need additional expansion capital to meet the additional demand. To facilitate the
recycling process, inflation indexing on the free-limit, and more liberal on-lending terms to reflect
the market, should be enforced. Unutilized, the line of credit becomes counter-developmental
because the commercial bank finds itself with terms and currency that are difficult to match on its
balance sheet. As it is, the taxpayer ultimately foots the exchange risk and repayment risk
indemnification, which raises the question whether there would be better use for the counter-
guarantees. For unusable funds, a rollback feature should be considered to reduce the negative
economic benefits.
42.   The Bank's information needs, which are more adapted to large projects, appear to have
had an effect on the utilization of funds, and perhaps acted as a disincentive to the ongoing
utilization. For commercial banks, time and administration costs must be covered by the
investment operation, which contributes a disproportionate hidden cost and ultimately a
disincentive as a transaction cost. More streamlined processes must be evaluated for private
sector, small business-oriented investments.
43.   Supervision. The absent supervision cost dearly on several fronts. Most importantly, a
vibrant investment demand was overlooked in terms of its needs, successes, and failures. The
associated information base could also have contributed to Bank policy or product refinement.
Second, the structure could have benefited from the recycling of funds so that the intended
economic benefits could have accrued over the 15-year term. Third, the capacity development of
the commercial banks could also have benefited from both the Bank providing an example and the
Bank following up on what the additional need could have been. Supervision of the institutional
reforms and of the technical assistance could also have provided benefits, but would have required
a strong and central public sector counterpart to be effective.
44. Inter-program coordination and inter-agenocy coordination. The subsequent IFP could have
been used to pick up on some of the delayed implementations and design oversights. Aid agencies
could have been canvassed for their results. The combination of both could have provided
compounded benefits.



13
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Industrial Export Finance Project
(Loans 28060-28067-MOR)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Actual
Table 4A: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Actual: Graph
Table 4B:  Loan Disbursements per Sub-Borrower: Pie Graph
Table 5:   Distribution of Subprojects Per Their Amount
Table 6:   Listing of Subprojects and Portfolio Performance
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project N/A
Table 8:   Project Costs and financing N/A
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits N/A
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements N/A
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions
Table 14:  Geographical Distribution of Subloans: By Provinces
Table 15:  Geographical Distribution of Subloans: By Regions



14
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Industrial Export Finance Project
(Loans 28060-28067-MOR)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial        Partial         Nejqgjijjo Ii pL;cable
(V)             ()                (V)                 /
Macro Policies                        El               0                 0                  O
Sector Policies                       O                E1                0                  °
Financial Objectives                  O                III               0                  0
Institutional Development             0                0                 E                  0
Physical Objectives                   O                Ex                0 3
Poverty Reduction                     0                ml]               0                  0
Gender Issues                         0                0                 0                  El
Other Social Objectives               O                O                 0                  El
Environmental Objectives              0                0                 0                  IE
Public Sector Management              O                0                 18                 0
Private Sector Development            a                2                 O                  O
Other (specifY1)                      a                                  0 
B. Project Sustainabilitv                Likelv                   Unlikelv                   Uncerin
(1)                        (1)                        (1)
lxi                 ~~~~~~0                     0
C. Bank Perfogmanc                        satisfactorv           Satisfactory                 I)ficien
(i')                      (1)                        (V)
identification                        E                          0                          O
Preparation Assistance                a                         i                           O
Appraisal                             O                          0 3
Supervision                           0                          0 3
ighll
D. Borrower Performance                          satisfactorv    Satisfactorv
(v)             (~/)             (1)
Preparation                                     121              0                0
Implementation                                  0                El               0
Covenant Compliance                             0                0               El
Operation (if applicable)                       0                El               0
E. Assessment of Outcome                satisfactorv   Satisfactory     Unsatisfi            u     v
(1)             (/)               (/)                (1)
a                0                El                 0



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title            Purpose            Year of           Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Loan 1383
Cior Cement
$US45M
2. Loan 1625              Development of local     17-Oct-78  Closed on 12/31/1983
Phosphor expansion         processing of phosphates
$US50 M
3. Loan 1687              Development of small     12-Apr-79  Closed on 12/31/1983
Small Scale Industries I  scale industries (SSIs)
$US25 M
4. Loan 2037               Strengthening of the    14-Jul-81   Closed on 06/30/1988
BNDE IX                   Banque Nationale pour le
D6veloppement
US$70 M                   Economique
5. Loan 2038              Development of small     14-Jul-81   Closed on 06/30/1988
Small Scale Industries II  scale industries (SSIs)
$US70 M
Following operations
1. Loan 3136              Development of Industrial  5-Dec-89   Closed on 06/30/1996
Industrial Finance         Sector
US$170 M
2. Loan 3365-3373          Strengthening of financial  25-Jun-91   On-going
Financial Sector Development  sector
$US235
3. Loan 3463               Structural adjustments  30-Apr-92  On-going
SAL II
$US275 M



16
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Industrial Export Finance Project
(Loans 28060-28067-MOR)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                     May-85
Preparation                                                    Jul.-86
Appraisal                                                      Oct.-86
Negotiations                                                   Feb.-87
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)                   NA
Board Presentation                                             5-May-87
Signing                                                        27-Jul.-87
Effectiveness                               27-Oct.-87         8-Feb.-88
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                          NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                                 NA
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if                         NA
applicable)
Project Completion                                             Dec.-94
Loan Closing                                                   Dec.-95



Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Industrial Export Finance Project
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ACTUAL (In Millions of USS)
1988           1989            1990           1991           1992           1993            1994      TA
A  %s  %c.   A  %s  %c.  A  %s %c.  A  %s %c.  A  %s %c.  A  %s %c.   A  %s  %c.
L28060  2.2  8.6  8.6 13.5  51.9  60.5 5.1  19.5  80.0 1.9  7.2  87.2 3.1  12.0  99.1 0.2  0.6  99.7  0.1  0.3 100.0 26.0
L28061  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.9  30.6  30.6 1.3  45.5  76.1 0.5  17.2  93.3 0.1  3.8  97.2 0.1  2.9 100.0  0.0  0.0 100.0 2.9
L28062  0.8  11.0  11.0  4.0  57.2  68.1  1.3  18.8  86.9 0.9  12.6  99.5 0.0  0.0  99.5 0.0  0.5 100.0  0.0  0.0 100.0 7.0
L28063  2.7  20.0  20.0  8.1  60.6  80.7 1.5  11.5  92.2 1.0  7.6  99.8 0.0  0.2 100.0 0.0  0.0 100.0  0.0  0.0 100.0 13.3
L28064  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.3  52.4  52.4 0.6  25.0  77.4 0.6  22.6 100.0 0.0  0.0 100.0 0.0  0.0 100.0  0.0  0.0 100.0 2.5
L28065  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.8  47.1  47.1  0.1  3.4  50.5 0.0  0.0  50.5 0.8  47.8  98.3 0.0  1.7 100.0  0.0  0.0 100.0 1.6
L28066  0.1  2.8  2.8  1.6  35.3  38.1  1.6  35.6  73.7 1.2  25.9  99.5 0.0  0.5 100.0 0.0  0.0 100.0  0.0  0.0 100.0 4.5
L28067  0.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  53.3  57.7 1.9  23.0  80.7 0.9  10.8  91.5 0.5  5.8  97.3 0.1  1.1  98.4  0.1  1.6 100.0 8.2



Table 4A: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Actual: Graph
100.0
90.0
80.0
70.0
60.0
40.0
30.0
20.0
-4-L28060
---L28061
10.0                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A- L28062
-4- L28063
0.0                                                                                                                                        -N- L28064
1988                 1989                  1990                  1991                 1992                  1993                 1994   --L28065
Years                                                                   -1-L28066
1L28067
Sum



Loan Account as of 30-NOV-1998
Loan Number                               28060
Region Name:       MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AF Country:               MOROCCO
Country Dept:   -   Office of the Director     Borrower            NAT. BANK FOR ECO. DEVELOPMENT
Loan Type:         P - POOL LOAN               Lendiing Type:      P - PROJECT LENDING
Loan Status:       5 - DISBURSED               Lending lnst:        FIL - FINAN INTERMED LN
Loan Rate:         VLR 82 - 6.90%              Sector              FF - FINANCE
Commitment Ccy:    USD                         Project:            5452 - IND.EXP. FINANCE I
Guarantor           MOROCCO
Amounts are in USD
Original Principal:                28,000,000.00 Repaid 3rd Party:                0
Cancellations:                      1,963,362.00 Due 3rd Party:                   0
Undisbursed Amount:                          0 Due IBRD Amount:         12,175,838.00
Disbursed Amount:                  26,036,638.00 Borrower Obligation:   13,556,150.00
Repaid IBRD Amount:                13,860,800.00 Loans Held:            12,175,838.00
Sold 3rd Party:                              0 Exchange Adjustment:      1,380,312.00
Approval:                              5-May-87 First Repay:               15-Oct-91 Last Disb: 19-Oct-93
Agreement:                             27-Jul-87 Last Repay:               15-Apr-02 Closing:  31-Dec-95
Effective:                             8-Feb-88



Loan Account as of 30-NOV-1996
Loan Number                                 28061
Region Name:       MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AF Country:                 MOROCCO
Country Dept:      Office of the Director       Borrower:             BANQUE CENTRALE POPULAIRE
Loan Type:         P-POOL LOAN                  Lending Type:        P - PROJECT LENDING
Loan Status:       5 - DISBURSED                Lending Inst:        FIL - FINAN INTERMED LN
Loan Rate:         VLR 82 - 6.90%               Sector               FF - FINANCE
Commitment Ccy:   USD                           Project:             5452 - IND.EXP. FINANCE I
Guarantor            MOROCCO
Amounts are in USD
Original Principal:                 3,000,000.00 Repaid 3rd Party:               0
Cancellations:                        105,107.00 Due 3rd Party:                  0
Undisbursed Amount:                           0 Due IBRD Amount:       1,448,58300
Disbursed Amount:                   2,894,893.00 Borrower Obligation:  1,625,163.00
Repaid IBRD Amount:                 1,446,310.00 Loans Held:           1,448,583.00
Sold 3rd Party:                               0 Exchange Adjustment:    176,580.00
Approval:                              5-May-87 First Repay:              15-Oct-91 Last Disb: 2-Feb-93
Agreement:                             27-Jul-87 Last Repay:              15-Apr-02 Closing:  31-Dec-95
Effective:                            22-Mar-88



Loan Account as of 30-NOV-1996
Loan Number:                             28062
Region Name:       MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AF  Country:              MOROCCO
Country Dept:      Office of the Director        Borrower:         BANQUE COMMER. DU MAROC
Loan Type:         P-POOL LOAN                   Lending Type:     P - PROJECT LENDING
Loan Status:       5 - DISBURSED                 Lending lnst:     FIL - FINAN INTERMED LN
Loan Rate:         VLR 82 - 6.90%                Sector:           FF - FINANCE
Commitment Ccy:   USD                            Project:          5452 - IND.EXP. FINANCE I
Guarantor:        MOROCCO
Amounts are in USD
Original Principal:                  7,000,000.00 Repaid 3rd Party:           0
Cancellations:                          36,961.00 Due 3rd Party:              0
Undisbursed Amount:                            0 Due IBRD Amount:  3,446,159.00
Disbursed Amount:                    6,963,039.00 Borrower Obligation: 3,806,031.00
Repaid IBRD Amount:                  3,516,880.00 Loans Held:       3,446,159.00
Sold 3rd Party:                                0 Exchange Adjustme   359,872.00
Approval:                               5-May-87 First Repay:         15-Oct-91 Last Disb: 4-Dec-92
Agreement:                              27-Jul-87 Last Repay:          15-Apr-02 Closing:  31-Dec-95
Effective:                               1-Mar-88



Loan Account as of 30-NOV-1996
Loan Number:                                 28063
Region Name:        MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AF Country:                 MOROCCO
Country Dept:       Office of the Director       Borrower:            BANQUE MAROCAINE DU COMM. EXTERIEUR
Loan Type:          P - POOL LOAN                Lending Type:        P - PROJECT LENDING
Loan Status:       5 - DISBURSED                Lending lnst:         FIL - FINAN INTERMED LN
Loan Rate:         VLR 82 - 6.90%               Sector                FF - FINANCE
Commitment Ccy:    USD                           Project:              5452 - IND.EXP. FINANCE I
Guarantor:            MOROCCO
Amounts are in USD
Original Principal:                 14,500,000.00 Repaid 3rd Party:               0
Cancellations:                       1,222,770.00 Due 3rd Party:                  0
Undisbursed Amount:                            0 Due IBRD Amount:       6,306,330.00
Disbursed Amount:                   13,277,230.00 Borrower Obligation:  6,966,253.00
Repaid IBRD Amount:                  6,970,900.00 Loans Held:           6,306,330.00
Sold 3rd Party:                                0 Exchange Adjustment:     659,923.00
Approval:                               5-May-87 First Repay:              15-Oct-91 Last Disb: 30-Jan-92
Agreement:                              27-Jul-87 Last Repay:              15-Apr-02 Closing:  31-Dec-95
Effective:                             28-Jan-88



Loan Account as of 30-NOV-1 996
Loan Number                                28064
Region Name:       MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AF Country:                MOROCCO
Country Dept:      Office of the Director      Borrower:            BANQUE MAR. POUR LE COMM. ET L'INDUSTRIE
Loan Type:         P - POOL LOAN               Lending Type:        P - PROJECT LENDING
Loan Status:       5- DISBURSED                Lending lnst:         FIL - FINAN INTERMED LN
Loan Rate:         VLR 82 - 6.90%              Sector:              FF - FINANCE
Commitment Ccy:   USD                          Project:             5452 - IND.EXP. FINANCE I
Guarantor:           MOROCCO
Amounts are in USD
Original Principal:                 2,500,000.00 Repaid 3rd Party:             0
Cancellations:                                0 Due 3rd Party:                 0
Undisbursed Amount:                          0 Due IBRD Amount:      1,235,960.00
Disbursed Amount:                   2,500,000.00 Borrower Obligation:    1,376,129.00
Repaid IBRD Amount:                 1,264,040.00 Loans Held:         1,235,960.00
Sold 3rd Party:                              0 Exchange Adjustment:   140,169.00
Approval:                              5-May-87 First Repay:            15-Oct-91 Last Disb:  1-Mar-91
Agreement:                             27-Jul-87 Last Repay:            15-Apr-02 Closing:  31-Dec-95
Effective:                            16-Mar-88



Loan Account as of 30-NOV-1998
Loan Number:                               28065
Region Name:       MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AF Country:                 MOROCCO
Country Dept:      Office of the Director       Borrower:            CREDIT DU MAROC
Loan Type:         P - POOL LOAN                Lending Type:        P - PROJECT LENDING
Loan Status:       6 - REPAID                   Lending Inst:        FIL - FINAN INTERMED LN
Loan Rate:         VLR 82 -6.90%                Sector:              FF - FINANCE
Commitment Ccy:    USD                          Project:             5452 - IND.EXP. FINANCE I
Guarantor:          MOROCCO
Amounts are in USD
Original Principal:                 2,000,000.00 Repaid 3rd Party:          0
Cancellations:                        405,209.00 Due 3rd Party:             0
Undisbursed Amount:                           0 Due IBRD Amount:             0
Disbursed Amount:                   1,594,791.00 Borrower Obligation:        0
Repaid IBRD Amount:                 1,594,791.00 Loans Held:                 0
Sold 3rd Party:                               0 Exchange Adjustment:         0
Approval:                              5-May-87 First Repay:         15-Oct-91 Last Disb: 20-Oct-92
Agreement:                             27-Jul-87 Last Repay:         15-Apr-02 Closing:  31-Dec-95
Effective:                              1-Mar-88



Loan Account as of 30-NOV-1996
Loan Number                                28066
Region Name:        MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AF Country:                MOROCCO
Country Dept:       Office of the Director       Borrower            SOC. GEN. MARO. DE BANQUES
Loan Type:          P - POOL LOAN                Lending Type:        P - PROJECT LENDING
Loan Status:        5 - DISBURSED                Lending lnst:        FIL - FINAN INTERMED LN
Loan Rate:          VLR 82 - 6.90%               Sector               FF - FINANCE
Commitment Ccy:    USD                           Project:             5452 - IND.EXP. FINANCE I
Guarantor           MOROCCO
Amounts are In USD
Original Principal:                  4,500,000.00 Repaid 3rd Party:              0
Cancellations:                                 0 Due 3rd Party:                  0
Undisbursed Amount:                            0 Due IBRD Amount:    2,245,000.00
Disbursed Amount:                    4,500,000.00 Borrower Obligation:   2,530,078.00
Repaid IBRD Amount:                  2,255,000.00 Loans Held:         2,245,000.00
Sold 3rd Party:                                0 Exchange Adjustment:   285,078.00
Approval:                                5-May-87 First Repay:           15-Oct-91 Last Disb: 30-Jan-92
Agreement:                               27-Jul-87 Last Repay:           15-Apr-02 Closing:  31 -Dec-95
Effective:                               16-Mar-88



Loan Account as of 30-NOV-1 996
Loan Number.                               28067
Region Name:       MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AF Country:                MOROCCO
Country Dept:      Office of the Director       Borrower:           WAFABANK
Loan Type:         P - POOL LOAN               Lending Type:        P - PROJECT LENDING
Loan Status:       5 - DISBURSED                Lending lnst:       FIL - FINAN INTERMED LN
Loan Rate:         VLR 89 - 6.94%              Sector:              FF - FINANCE
Commitment Ccy:   USD                           Project:            5452 - IND.EXP. FINANCE I
Guarantor:          MOROCCO
Amounts are in USD
Original Principal:                 8,500,000.00 Repaid 3rd Party:              0
Cancellations:                        302,257.00 Due 3rd Party:                 0
Undisbursed Amount:                           0 Due IBRD Amount:      4,068,943.00
Disbursed Amount:                   8,197,743.00 Borrower Obligation:  4,548,030.00
Repaid IBRD Amount:                 4,128,800.00 Loans Held:          4,068,943.00
Sold 3rd Party:                               0 Exchange Adjustment:    479,086.00
Approval:                              5-May-87 First Repay:             15-Oct-91 Last Disb: 28-Jan-94
Agreement:                             27-Jul-87 Last Repay:             15-Apr-02 Closing:  31-Dec-95
Effective:                             8-Feb-88



TABLE 4B: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS PER SUB-BORROWER: PIE GRAPH
Wafa
CM                                                                   c  ll    NDE
20A^I                 @                                               40%
BMCI
4%
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  V.
BMCE
20%



TABLE 5: DISTRIBUTION OF SUB-PROJECTS PER THEIR AMOUNT
45.00%
40.00%
35.00%                                                                                                                .. . . ._.____..
30.00%
0.00%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
X20.00%                                             _........ .......... . ....                                           . ._.. ..._.  . .... ............ .._...
z   250.W%                                                                          .    . ... ..... _.... _....   ...   __...,...    ..    .   . .. . ........  ..... . ..  . .    .   ....____-.
10.00%                                                         ....... P--.........   ..  .   .   .   ... .  .......    . .    . ............ .. .......   ....   ..
y/e - less or equal



29
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Industrial Export Finance Project
(Loan 2806-0-7-MOR)
Table 6: Listing of Sub-Projects
Legend:
*       confirmed by the borrower actual data report and matching the IBRD disbursement data
base.
* FM - file missing
* INA - data unavailable
* NA - non-applicable
* In Column 1 - Number of the sub-project (projects are listed in alphabetical order).
* In Column 2 - Code attributed to Sub-project
*  In Column 3 - Beneficiary of Sub-loan
*  In Column 4 - Sector of the economy
*  In Column 5 - Location of sub-borrower headquarters
*  In Column 6 - Export or Domestic oriented. If available, the percentage of export-oriented
component
*  In Column 7 - Large or small enterprise. Large are considered enterprises with amount of sales
more than Dh 150mm  in "annee de croisiere"
*  In Column 8 - Project Cost in mDH
*  In Column 9 - Sub-loan Amount in mDH
*  In Column 10 - Description of the sub-project pursuant to two variables. The first deals with
either Production, Distribution, or Both. The second variable deals with either Quality
(improvement), Expansion (of existing capacity), or Creation (of new products). The third
variables appears when there is a combination of two of above variables (e.g. Expansion and
Improvement).
*  In Column 11 - Employment reflects the number of created jobs
*  In Column 12 - IRR - Internal Rate of Retum of Sub-project
*  In Column 13 - Amount disbursed in mDH
*  In Column 14 - Amount disbursed in mUSD
*  In Column 15 - Terms of agreement with the bank: interest rate and term of the loan
*  In Column 16 - Outstanding Amount if any
*  In Column 17 - Loan Status (OK, restructured, non-performing)
*  In Column 18 - Revenues in mDH("annee de croisiere" or yearly data if available)
*  In Column 19 - Net Income in mDH("ann6e de croisiere" or yearly data if available)
*  In Column 20 - Cash flow in mDH ("ann6e de croisi&re" or yearly data if available)
*  In Column 21 - Status of Financials classified as either Normal, Restructured or Liquid.
*  In Column 22 - General comments



30
Kingdom of Morocco
Industrial Export Finance Project
2806-0
N  Code Clients of BNDE                            Project
1    2           3      4           5    6      7       8        9           10   11   12
Cost.  Subloan
Name        Sector City       E/D  L/SME mDH   mDH         Descrip.     Empi IRR
I a-55 AW-umar Sou lAgroind Aft Melloul  exp  SME    21.7      8.0 prod/exp       12  16%
2 a-31  Ar ;fil    Confect Tanger    exp/d SME      123.0    60.0 prod/exp       221  18%
3 a-43 Cel.ulose D   Chim  Sidi Yahia   90% L       100.0    32.0 prod/exp            18%
4 a-8  Ceia        Electro Casablanca expid SME      12.5      6.0 prod/exp/new       30%
5 b-8  TDall       Confect Casablanca exp  SME       12.0      3.8 prod/new       17 24%
6 a-11  Ets Agouzzal Agroind Essaouira  exp  L                    prod/exp        22  19%
7 a-39 Filatis:    Confect Casablanca expld L        19.4    13.5 prod/new        28  17%
8 b-11 Le triangle   Confect Casablanca exp/d SME     6.5      2.0 prod/exp/impr
9 a-13 Manalex- -  Confect Casablanca  70% SME       69.6    49.0 prod/exp        80  15%
10 b-10 Marmcapres  Agroind Fes       exp  SME         7.6      2.6 prod/exp        5  25%
11 a-6   Mocary     Confect Sale      exp  SME        18.0      9.2 prod/exp       50  25%
12 -    Multitex    Confect Casablanca exp/d L                     prod/exp       220  16%
13 a-10 Norprotex  Confect Tanger    exp  SME         32.0    22.0 prod/exp/new    70  27%
14 a-46  Rifotax   . 2    Confect Nador  d    L                    prod/new       631  19%
15 b-9  Sale Plast   Agroind Sale     d    SME         6.0      4.0 prod/new       20  21%
16 a-9  Selsfil -     Confect Settat  exp/d L        163.0    28.0 prod/exp      3071  19%
17 b-7   Soflilam   Confect Casablanca d    SME        6.4      2.8 prod/exp       38  25%
18 a-42  *Sogetis   Confect Casablanca exp/d SME      33.9    18.0 prod/exp/new    59 N/A
19 a-32 Taza Mro.w: Confect Taza      exp  SME        21.2     14.8 prod/exp      300  24%
20 a-14 Jean Carel - Leather Casablanca exp  SME       12.0     7.2 prod/exp        70
21 a-5  *Utex      j Confect Casablanca d    SME       13.5     6.0 prod/exp/imr    48  19%
Total
Average                                                                            276  21%
Note: * - Credits Amortis



31
2806-0
Loans(disb)                         Financials                        Comments
13     14            15   16    17         18    19        20    21         22
O/S                    N.I.  Cash
kDH kUSD   Term          mDH Status Rev. mDH  mDH  flow mDH Status
0.9 7/13%1                        64.1  -2.4       0.6
24     2.8 10/13%/                        92.0  -4.7      6.3
9     1.1 5/12%!                        784.5 145.4    250.8
6     0.7 7/14%/                         10.7  -0.8      0.1
3.8    0.5 7/15%1                        139.9  12.1      18.3
4.3     0.5 8/..1                                                   shut down
12     1.4 10/13%1                        47.2 -18.6    -13.2
2     0.2 7/14%!                                                   shut down
24     2.9 11(5)/13(14)/                 147.3  -4.7      6.3
2.7    0.3 5/14%!                         124.2   1.6      3.2
9.2    1.1 10/13%/                        51.0   1.7       4.2
2.7                               140.7 -17.5     21.1      FM
19     2.3 10/14%/                        51.5   3.6     11.1
1.1                               21.6  -3.0      -0.5
4     0.4 9/14%!                                                   shut down
24     2.9 11.5/..!                       94.1 -21.3     -6.9
2.8    0.3 7/14%!                           6.1   0.0      0.9
8     0.8 8/13%!
13     1.3 10/14%/                        75.2   7.2     15.3
7.2    0.9 8!..!                                                     FM
6     0.7 7114%!                         49.8   2.1       3.7
26.0



32
2806-1
N  Code Clients of Bank Central Populaire                Projec
1    2            3        4         5        6       7     8 Sub- 9            10      11
Cost. Loan
Name         Sector  City       EID      LISME  mDH mDH    Descrip.    Empl.
I a-49 Ailias Carpel  Ilndustrial Gharb    100% SME        9.4     6.0 prod/exp        860
2 a-26 Croal' ua   Industrial Rabat        90% SME       13.5     8.0 prod/improv      86
3 a-37 'Con! Mehd:  ;Industrial Casablanca  65% SME        6.7     4.0 prod/exp         50
4 a-19 corea       !Agricultur Agadir       90% SME       11.5     6.9 prod/exp/new    480
5 b-19 EBEN        lindustrial Rabat        90% SME        4.2     2.5 prod/new
6 a-28 H1amtex     llndustrial Rabat       100% SME        4.9     2.8 prod/exp       1200
7 b-30 Joening-Pxprt: j Industrial Casablanca    100% SME  2.5     1.1 prod/new         84
8 a-40 Rifteic .    l1ndustrial Nador      50% SME       26.5     5.0 prod/exp        120
Total
Average                                      86%                                         411



33
2806-1
Loans (disb)                    Financials                       Comments
12       13      14        15    Is      17       181   19          20    21          22
O/S           Rev.    N.I.   Cash flow
IRR       MDH mUSD  Termns    kDH  Status  mDH          mDH   mDH        Status____
21%       5.4        7113%1           OK          32.2    0.6        1.6 L
50%       5.6       071/14%I          NP          27.4    4.2        5.2 R
2.0' ~     10113%I         NP           26.4    2.5       3.4 R
48%       1.1 7514%/o                  OK        107.2   5.1         7.9 L
.5                 ~~~~NP                             R      FM
4%       2.8        8or6/14%/        OK          58.3    8.5        9.8 L
25%       1.1       8612%/            R            5.4    0.6        0.8 L
19%       3.0        8/12%1       360 R           26.1    4.2        6.4 R     _
23.54
28%



34
2806-2
N Code Clients of BCM              _Project
1    2            3             4          5   6      7     8        9          10   11i 1
Sub-
Cost. Loan
Name        Sector        City       E/D  USSME mDH mDH    Descrip.    Empl. IRR
1 a-15  Beniflor                                        another "chef de file"
2 a-20  Cofitex                                         another "chef de file"
3 a-14  Chafil                                          another "chef de file"
4 a-47  Sohil Europe                                    another "chef de file"
5 a-37  Confection Mehdi                                another "chef de file"
a-19  Copag       Agro-alimentaire Rabat   exp SME    11.5       6.9 prod/new      298
7 a-35  Dali        Confection    IPCasablanca 95% SME    10.0     6.0 prod/exp/new    85 19%
8      Dali      - .                             SME    20.0    12.0 prod/exp/imp    28 15%
9 -    Lukus       Agro-aliment   Larache   exp SME    25.0        3.5 prod/imp
10 a-16  Ml  laij    Collvtchtiorl  Tanger    exp SME    25.0    15.0 prod/exp       182
11 a-18  Manic      Colileclior    Casablanca exp L         5.5     3.3 prod/exp      102
12 a-17  Marocolor   Contie:lion   Berrechid  exp SME    24.6    14.8 prod/exp
13 b-32  Paltoe. ... CoIlvclioni    Rabat     exp SME    13.4       5.7 prod/exp
14 b-24  Petit Poussin Confection  Casablanca exp/ L        4.2     2.5 prod/exp      205 45%
1 b-12  Sohan:o      Confection    Meknes   exp SME                     prod/exp       94 32%
16 b14 !SGr1acoLraL .Agro-alimentaire Agadir    _ SME       6.1     3.0 prod/distr/new
Total                                          _   _   __                     _   _   _
Average                                        95%                                     142 28%
() 10 months                      Revenues (Chiffre d'affaires) average
0
- 1230  .       .  -...-....-   ... ...... .  ....  .     . . ...   .......
E 120. ..... .    . .....
10   s o. __..... 1--
1993           1994           1995
Years



35
2806-2
Loans (disb)            -      Financials         _Comments
13     14      15       16    17                  18      19        20    21          22
Rev.mDH I
O/S                    % share    N.I.    Cash flow
mDH mUSD  Terms  mDH          Status        export     mDH    mDH        Status
0.3
0.5
0.7
0.4
0.2
6.9    0.4 5112%/           ok    1991/92        53.5     1.7          n
1992193       57.1     4.6
1993194 88.9/67%       8.1
6.0    0.7 7/13%0/        0 ok                                          n
3.0    0.4              1.1         1993        140.0    12.1
1994       163.8     8.6
1995  169.7/86%     19.6
3.5                       0 ok    1991/92       239.1    -2.5          r      problems
199293       206.0   -16.6
199394  251.8/100%    -34.7
15.0    0.9 61L/             ok                                          n
3.3    0.2 61L     1        ok      1993        126.4     2.5           n
1994       146.2     1.1
1996  159.1/100%     0.1
17.2    1.2 71..          0 r       1993         40.8    -3.6           r
1994        43.0     6.1
1996  41.2/100%     -4.0
5.7    0.4                0 ok                    0.0                   n     problems
1.9       5/12%1          0 ok            167.7/60%       4.0           n
2.6    0.2                0 ok      1993  13.2/100%       0.4           n
1994        14.3     0.5
1996        18.0    -7.6
3.0    0.4 5/14%          0 ok                    0.0                   N/A
68.1   6.96               1.1



36
280643
N  Code Clients of BMCE                             Project
1    2        3          4          5     6      7      8         9          10    11    12
Cost.  Subloan
Name    Sector    City         E/D   USME mDH   mDH         Descrip.    Empl. IRR
1 b-4  At! Ucnfed'Oonfection  Rabat   >50% SME        5.7       3.3 prod/exp       164  50%
2 a-15 Biniflor ? |Fleurs coup Casablanca  60% SME    19.5      7.2 prod/exp        90  42%
3 a-23 Chafil     Filature    Berrechid    89% SME   25.0      15.0 prod/improv     45  23%
4 a-4  Cotadis  Confection Casablanca  100% SME       10.0      6.0 prod/new            50%
5 a-20 COfitex & Confection Fes        47% L         100.0     25.0 prod/exp       110
6 b-3  Dev confe Confection Casablanca  100% SME       3.1      1.9 prod/exp/new    100 >50%
7 b-29 Dev confa Confection Casablanca      SME       4.0       2.4 prod/exp      110  55%
8 a-41 Gecotex  Confection Casablanca  100% SME      24.1      12.6 prod/new      300  25%
9 a-12 Iburna'   Confection Casablanca >40% SME      22.9      13.8 prod/exp       130  30%
10 a-23 J.c.k. ter;ij Confection Casablanca 100% SME   8.1       5.2 prod/new      139  44%
11 a-3  Laiiaco   Confection Meknes     90% SME        3.0       1.5 prod/new       60  45%
12 a-1  Lancelotti Confection Casablanca  94% L        8.4       5.0 prod/distb/exp   110  35%
13 a-38 Lancelotti Confection Casablanca  94% L        11.7      7.0 prod/distb/exp   100  23%
14 b-5  Lenardma Cuir       Casablanca >60% SME        6.0       3.6 prod/exp       99 >50%
15 a-16 M bleu   Confection Tanger      80% SME       25.0      15.0 prod/dist/new       76%
16 a-22 Magefil  Filature    Casablanca  45% SME      22.4      13.4 prod/exp       43
17 a-17 Marooclor Teinture   Casablanca >90% SME      24.6      14.8 prod/new       26
18 b-I  Palmaroc conserves  Marrakech  100% SME         1.0      0.6 prod/exp        66
19 b-30 Pantco   Confection Casablanca  40% SME         0.9      0.5 prod/exp/new    37  12%
20 b-24 Pef. pOUS5 Confection Casablanca  45% SME       4.2      2.5 prod/exp
21 b-6  Polytex   Confection Casablanca >40% SME        5.3      3.2 prod/distr/exp    87 >50%
22 b-2  Svicqr    Confection Rabat      100% SME        2.4      1.4 prod/new            45%
23 a-25 Soft     Tissage    Casablanca  50% L          40.0     24.0 prod/exp        40 100%
24 a-2  Sicome   Confection Meknes    >50% SME         13.4      8.0 prod/exp       100  50%
25 b-12 Soheme  Confection Meknes        90% SME        4.4      2.6 prod/exp        45  50%
26 b-28 Soiuirah   -onserve  Marrakech   94% SME        3.0       1.8 prod/exp           20%
27 b-18 Tiic0fil   Confection Meknes    100% SME        3.1       1.8 prod/exp/new       50%
28 b-17 Uni'atex  Confection Casablanca 100% SME        7.0      3.0 prod/exp       154  50%
Total
Average                                  82%                                         98 44%
*) ? borrower actual report doesn't match IBRD disbursement data base



37
2806-3
Loans (disburs)                   Financials(as forecasted)        Comments
13       14         15    16      17       18      19       20    21          22
O/S          Rev.    N.l    Cash flow
mDH mUSD    Terms        mDH  Status mDH        mDH   mDH        Status
3.3     0.40 5114%1                        4.4    2.6       2.6
7.2     0.51 7114%/                       14.5    5.2       7.4
0.53 51..1                        30.3    8.6      10.9
0.66 7/14%/                       46.9              4.7
25.0     0.83 5or12/14%/                  229.9    5.1      14.8
1.9     0.23 5/12%I                       46.1    9.5       9.7
2.4     0.29                              84.0   12.1      13.1
0.75 12/13%/      3.5 ok          53.6              8.7 n
1.15 10/14%/      0.3 ok          14.2    0.8       0.9 n
5.2     0.32 611..         3.2 np         21.3    3.1       3.8 r
1.5     0.16 7/14%/        1.2 np         13.3    0.0       1.5 r
5.6     0.62 7/14%/                      242.3   16.5      20.5
0.86 7114%1                      266.7   23.0      26.0
3.6     0.44 5                            35.6    2.8       3.3
15.0     0.91 6/..12                       62.0    8.9      10.4
0.97 91L1                         INA    INA       INA
14.8     0.90 7/14%1                       INA    INA       INA
0.6     0.07 5113%/                       16.9   INA        INA
0.5     0.06 5/13%/        0.1 ok          3.5    1.7       1.8 n
0.3     0.28                               INA    INA       INA
3.2     0.34 5/14%/                       40.2    4.6       5.3
1.4     0.17 5/14%/                       19.8    1.5       1.6
24.0     0.15 5/13%1                       28.8    3.5        3.8
0.76 7/14%/                       68.3    5.3       5.8
2.6     0.16 7/14%/           n np         10.8    4.1       4.7 r
1.8     0.21 5/13%/                       11.4    2.7       3.0
1.8     0.18 7/14%/                       15.0    3.8       4.0
3.0     0.36 7114%1                       31.9    5.6        6.3
13.28               8.3



38
2806 4
N Code Clients of BMCI                                     Project
1    2              3          4          5      6      7       8         9       10  11      12
Cost.  Subloan
Name          Sector      City       EID   L/SME mDH   mDH          Descrip. Emp IRR
1 a-30  Fracotex   IConfection  Casablanca >50% SME           7.4       4.4 prod/new  119   27%
2 a-19  Copag         another "chef de file"
3 a-41  Gecotex       another"chef de file"
4 a-47  Sohil Europe   another "chef de file"
5 a-34                 Confection |Casablanca  50% SME       13.7       8.0 prod/exp 256   23%
Total
Average                                        50%                                    188   25%
Revenues (Chiffre d'affaires) average
12.0              ..
10.0 .....  _. 
8.2 ______________ 
6.0                    -   -     -----
~4.0.
2.0 --             -      _               |    t
0.0
1990       1991        1992       1993        1994
Years



39
2806-4
Loans(disb)                          Financials      _Comments
13        14      15   16      17              18      19         20      21         22
O/S                 Rev.    N.I.    Cash flow
mDH mUSD   -Terms  mDH Status Years  mDH    mDH   mDH                   Status
3.5,      0.4-7/12%1       ok         1990     5.1                    n
1991     5.0
1992     5.7
1994    10.9
e. c     1..517/13%/       np                     _                   r
1.9



40
2806-5
N  Code Clients of Credit du Maroc                     Prject
0 1    21          31        4          5    6      7       SI8              10    II,   12
Cost.  Subloan
Name        Sector   City        E/D  LISME mDH   mDH         Descrip. Empl. IRR
1a-59       _       Confection Casablanca 40% SME         10        7 profit/imp
2 a-20  Cofitex     another "chef de file"
3 a-41  Gecotex     another"chef de file"                                     l
Total
Average                                    40%



41
2806-5
Loans (disb        16       Financials                      Comments
13       14    15   16    17        18    19         20_   21         22
OIS         Rev.   N.I.  Cash flow
mDH mUSD    Terms mDH Status mDH   mDH  mDH               Status
8.9           -.0.8      ok        10.9  0.2            r      decline
0.5
0.3 -       =  -  =    _ _  _
1.6



28064
N ICocie  Clients of SGMB    _                                               Project
1      2                    3              4               5        6        7        8         9             10       11         12
Cost.   Subloan
Name                 Sector         City            E/D      L/SME  mDH       mDH        Descrip.       Empl.   IRR
1 b-23   Case mode ni ..   -  Textile             -aca           10  S              3.'        2.0 prod/exp           200       21 
2 a-50   tdle ConectbIn       Textile        Casablanca          100% SME           3.0        1.8 prod/new            65       0.45
4      .    .. .
...-;n  t..>   ...-x:.    .
3 b-31    &O ~                Agroindust.    Caalna8%SE1812poimr530
4a-5                ;       |Ouate          Kenitra             100% SME   |      18 C        8.0 prod/new            31       28%|
5 a-48   14ie  i-       :Agroindus.          Casablanca          >90% SME           9.2        6.4 prod/exp             4       43%
6 b-22    9l '*          *.Textile           Casablanca             E SME            3.9       2.3 prod/exp            160      46%
. A. .....
7 b-27   sO&AII                  a Minier    Casablanca          >90% SME           6.3        2.0 prod/imp/exp                 31 %
8 a-29   f       irg     *.    g Floricusture  Casablanca        >90% SME           5.8        1.8 prod/imp/new         13      25%
9 a-19   Copag                another "chef de l ile"
10 a-23   JCK Textile          another "chef de file"'
I1I a-58   Dal! II             another "chef de file"
12 a-24    hafil              lanoter "chef de file'
16 Sb25                        Textile        Casablanca             E L              4.9       2.5 prod/expimpr        150      214%
Total                                                              9%8                                                             2
Average                                                            9%8                                                             2



Revenues (Chiffre d'affaire) average
50
30                                     .    ........ .....         ........                            ..      ...    ....
50-~~~~~~ -
20-._-. ...                                                                                                                                   . _llL|........ ..... .
40                                                              .........   ...   . l;..          ......                            ..... ......................      ....._ . ...,__.....__ 
0
1991                              1992                              1993                              1994                              1995
Years



2806-6
Loans (d sb)                   Financials                                      Comments
13      14        15    16    17                   18       19          20    21                          22
O0S                 Rev.mDH I %           Cash flow
mDH mUSD   Term        mDH  Status Years share export N.l. mDH mDH           Status      .-
2    0.12 7112.5%/    _            -     _       _     -                        quit the bank
1.8    0.19 5/12.5%1      0 OK       1991  16.2/100%     6.7       4.0            stagnation
1992  33.2/100%     5.5        5.8
1993  29.0/100%     6.3       6.8
1994  26.2/100%     2.8       6.8
1995  27.9/100%     4.5        6.1
1.8    0.21 5/12.5%W      0 OK       1991  102.3/94%     1.9        3.6
1992  116.8/85%     0.3        2.6
1993   89.8/80%     0.3        2.8
1994   92.0/68%     0.5        3.5
1995   75.4/52%     0.5        4.0
8    1.00 6/12.5%1      0 OK       1991   10.9170%     -5.9                     decline in activities
1992   24.0/70%     -1.4       2.7
1993   27.2/70%     -0.3       4.1
1994     24.2
1995     21.0
5.5    0.61 7/13%W      0.8 OK       1991   58.5/94%     18.2      26.7           increase in activities
1992   76.5/91%     28.3      34.1
1993   88.0/91%     6.1       24.1
1994   94.4/92%     12.5      29.4
2.3    0.25 6             0 OK       1991  48.2/100%      0.7       2.0           stagnation
1992  26.9/100%     0.4        1.7
1993  26.3/100%     0.3        1.6
1994  30.7/100%     0.3        1.7
1.25    0.23 5/13%1         NP                 43.2       4.1        5.4    R      shut down
1.8    0.21 6/14%W         NP                 6.1        3.0        3.5    R
0.13
0.31
0.42
0.53
2.5    0.29 5/13%W        0          1991   5.9/79%      -0.4       0.3
1992   10.7/88%     536        1.2
4.5



45
2806-7
N Code Clients of Wafabank                            j Projct__ _
1    2             3|        4          5    6      71    8        9          1011         12
_Cost. Subloan
Name         Sector   City        E/D    USME mDH  mDH        Descrip.   Empi IRR
1 b-26 AfnLex       PConfection Casablanca  64% SME      2.8      1.0 prod/exp     90   26%
2 a-26 Cne..ah Cavpel .Confection Rabat   BCP chef de file
3 a-27 ZlIemnssouss ,Confection Agadir     50%ISME  |  7.5        5.0 prod/exp     21   15%
4 a-20 Colilex      jConfection Fes       BMCE chef de file
5 a-45 "mrmmer    ICongelatio Laayoune  >80%ISME  |  8.5          4.5 prod/exp/imp  100
6 a-41  Gecwex      !confection Casablanca BMCE chef de file
7 a-32 Lutckor      jAlimentair Larache    100% SME    25.0      13.0 prod/new           17%
8 a-21  MgePI:l     IConfection Casablanca >90% SME    22.4      13.4 prod/exptim    43   34%
9 a-18 '@anio       I Confection Casablanca 100% SME     5.5      3.3 prod/exp      0
10 a-57 Varaissa     jCommerce Acadir      >50% SME    10.2        5.5 prod/dis/exp    4   43%
11 a-36 Teextile de blar:. 1Confection Casablanca >50% SME    32.8  12 prod/new     97
12 a-44 TOp  omr exprot Sonfection Fes      95% SME   18.76       14.0 prod/new     70   23%
Total
Average                                     82%                                      53   26%



46
2806-7
Loans(disb)                 Financials                           Commments
13      14     15    16    17       18      19         20        21          22
OIS         Rev.             Cash flow
mDH mUSD   Terms mDH  Status mDH    N.I. mDH mDH            Status
1.5    0.18 5113%/ -
2.4    0.29           2.4 NP
4.3    0.51    81../              146.8     2.3        6.7
9.5    1.10              NP       181.2    36.7       18.5
4.2    0.50    81..1  2.9
2.5    0.30           1.4
12.3          1.521  10.1           39.0     8.4        9.2
5.4    0.65 9/14%I   1.2            9.1     4.4        1.5
1.3    0.16 5/14%/                126.4     0.9        8.6
6.4    0.77 7/13%/   0.4          134.8    14.7       32.7
11.3    1.33    81.1  12.0          13.0     2.7        3.9
_ ,.8.0    0.98   121.1   3.0   104.0      1.8        5.7
69.1     6.8    1.6



47
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Industrial Export Finance Project
(Loans 28060-28067-MOR)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section    Covenant   Present    Original               Revised           Description of               Comments
type       status    fulfillment   fulfillment              covenant
date          date
Loan           3.02 (a-    3             C           NA            NA             Borrower shall make          None.
b)                                                                 Sub-Loans under part
A) and B) of the
Projects.
3.02 (c)     10           C          NA             NA             Achieve the purposes of  None.
the Projects.
3.03 (a)    9             NC         yearly         NA            Furnish the program of   Information about
training referred to in      Institutional
Part C.                      Development is
missing.
3.04(a-b)   9             C for      every 6/12                   The Borrower shall            The covenants were
SGMB;   months                          furnish a) annual            drafted properly, in
BCM.                                    progress reports b) semi-  accordance with
CP for                                  annual reports.               accepted standards,
the rest                                                              but a lack of
administrative
follow-up was the
cause of their being
only partially
complied with.
Article 4    1            CD         yearly                       Banks to provide their        Provided with
audited financial            delays.
statements no later than
six months after the end
of each year.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from       8.  = Indigenous people
beneficiaries                                      9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds              10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4. =  Counterpart funding                                11.  = Setoal or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing agency  12.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                            13.  = Other
7. = Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied wihh partially
NC = not complied with



Kingdom of Morocco                       2806
Industrial Export Finance Project
Table 12: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle*         85    86    87    88    89    90    91    93    95    96    97 TOTAL
Preparation/Evaluat./Effectiveness
- In staff/veeks               11.8    79  106.5
-in US$ (in thousands of US$)  24.9  180.8  234.9
Supervision                                                                                                           o
- in staff/weeks                             1.8  20.1  16.5  12.4  17.7   1.8   4.2   2.4              76.9
-in US$ (in thousands of US$)                4.6  48.2  44.8  34.7  52.7   6.2    10   8.3             209.5
Completion
- in staff/weeks                                                                            0.9   2.9   3.8
-in USS (in thousands of USS)                                                               6.4   8.2  14.6
TOTAL
- In staff/weeks               11.8    79  108.3  20.1  16.5  12.4  17.7   1.8   4.2   3.3             184.3
-in US$ (in thousands of USS)  24.9  180.8  239.5  48.2  44.8  34.7  52.7   6.2    10  14.7            224.1
( the 1992 supervision mission to Morocco was included in subsequent year.



49
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Industrial Export Finance Project
(Loans 28060-28067-MOR)
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number              Specialized    Inplemen-     Develop-
Stage of    Month/      of     Days in   Staff Skills   tation Status   ment       Types of Problems
Project Cycle    Year    Persons   Field    Represented                 Objectives
Through       10-      5          10      Economists
Appraisal     11/85    1          10       (Trade
01/86    4         15       Economists)
0/6 4          15      & Financial
04/86                       Analysts &
2         20       Consultants &
07/86    2         20       Loan officer
09/86                       & Task
1         7       Manager
10/86
Appraisal     02/87    3          14      Task Manager        -              _
through Board                              & Consultant
Approval                                  & Economist
Supervision   11/87    4          17      Task Manager   Loan not                       To follow-up
Economists  effective yet.                 submission of
Delays of                     documentation
providing                   required for loan
information.                   effectiveness.
03/88    NA        NA       Task Manager                     The
The rating    development  Implementation of
02/91    2         11       & Economists    has been      impact has     TA, reporting.
03/92    1         10                       satisfactory   also been
throughout   satisfactory.
10/95    1         8                        the project
l __________                               ____________   supervision.
Completion    07/96    1          2        Task Manager       _              _        Information needs
l             -         -..,.



50
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Industrial Export Finance Project
(Loans 28060-28067-MOR)
Table 14: Geographical distribution of sub-loans: by Provinces
No subpr amount  amount share
apr KDH
Agadir                                       5   34400       5.3
Ait Melloul                                  1    8000       1.2
Berrechid                                    1   15000       2.3
Casablanca                                  42  291365    45.6
Essaouira                                    2     INA      INA
Fes                                          2   27600       4.3
Gharb                                        1    6000       0.9
Kenitra                                      1    8000       1.2
Laayoune                                     1    4500       0.7
Larache                                      2    16500      2.5
Marrakech                                    2    2400       0.3
Meknes                                       4    13940      2.1
Nador                                        1    5000       0.7
Rabat                                        6   21200       3.3
Sale                                         2   13200       2.0
Settat                                       1   28000       4.3
Sidi Yahia                                   1   32000       5.0
Tanger                                       3   97000    15.1
Taza                                         1   14800       2.3
Total                                              79  638905       100
(see map)



51
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Industrial Export Finance Project
(Loans 28060-28067-MOR)
Table 15: Geographical distribution of sub-loans: by Regions
Region     Share3 % of Yearly  No. of   Amount  Amount
total    % popl   Sub-     kDH    % share
population  growth  Projects
center              31.50     2.6       43   297,365     46.5
center-north         9.58     4.6        2    27,600      4.3
center-south         7.20     3.7       12    56,800      8.9
north-west          24.78     3.8       16   156,640     24.5
east                 7.28     3.7        3    51,300      8.0
south                9.74     6.6        3    13,200      2.1
tensift               9.91    3.6        3    36.000      5.6
(see map Appendixe B)
3 Recensement 1994 Minist6re charg6 de population.



52
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Industrial Export Finance Project
(Loans 28060-28067-MOR)
APPENDIX A
Chart showing Export Performance
Moroccan Merchandis Exporta(FOB)
4,500,000~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1. .. ..                              . ..... ... ..   .  . .....   .... ...   ... , ,
4.000.000
3,000,000
2,500,000
2,000,000
1 2,000,000
1,000,0001|
O .     .   __ ....._..   ..   ..   . .   ..   ... .... . ...   .... ....     ...... .
10.0     1964    1i97       le        Ing       190U     1W01      1S02     1003      lo4
Yews



53
Implementation Completion Report
Kingdom of Morocco
Industrial Export Finance Project
(Loans 28060-28067-MOR)
APPENDIX B
Map of Morocco No 28373






MAP SECTION






IBRD 28373
MOROCCO                                                     Ton.-
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT FINANCE PROJECT   1 -Tao                                                                                        Mediterranean Sea
DISTRIBUTION OF SUB-LOANS PER REGION                                      ,                                                  Knoarma    Nadan  Ba/
(IN % OF TOTAL AMOUNT) AS COMPARED                                             h.rack,0-         Ch.c.o.o.n -,                                   EKabdano
TO THE DISTRIBUTION OF POPULATION (%)                                           .t K.bba_
Sa1, .1   NORTHo,o ....    -                         .     .vida
0       5C        I 00      I so\A/a                                                             
SOMBrERO  ISO                                     ~~WEST         (                             
KILOMETERS                                                 ,- Tgnf                                               <5i                      ]rd 
nhEr mopas pr  p.d . bd rAapOsigr Oaf h WpI0di W, k                                     -aT.nWt-r,Jorf El  n;-*
rh. E-dana, cai6,.S.narr an and aa,fb.c mWnanroiant orna                                Sidi    C                         - T..a             T-...,.
oaarh.rrpdatnar.rply, arrAparrtOfr,WarldilnkDraun.anr                       G Enilna  Kac.m            ~    ,        WreSA                             _ 
vdgm  AtrdRobS.                     F a-         CENTER
Mahanra.dra   -      -      EKh-mis-t \.   M           SaRa.  NORTH                   N                 .
Casablaoas °'                                                                                       E A  S T k
0         0BnirraeAaa288                                                                   EA T               2
A   T  LA N   T  IC                                   -      Madauna        (                                aXizos        t  Bat9uleman.         N: __° \      B 
EIoadidcs        B.rr.skd                                                                                 . j
O    C    E  A    N                irftar0                  S-ar               *
'     S,d. :7 ~        ^    CENTER                <            -- td1° \             
Khau,b8o   Gd0fl5o
\_ 0- J                         o               ' \---  CENTER  - \
Saf,       \                                       osangu-er '*       ~   3   s 3itn-MaltaF      SOUTH                                     F
TENSIFT T           ragIraat  \ -                        2"               8 !                     - _-
Essaaui ra                              ®ManraEaju    (      Tananais        7DauJana\   _                -E,Iaud      F
Inr,-n-Tanaul.  ,.                           0c Tngbe                                         )  _
, . _   '   Ouor:an tF
Agadir      0Tan-ud-nnt                     araanauhr                                     U N
As   o    U   T    /7haca-                                                             9 7 4Oj   SHARE    9 OF  TOTAL  POPULATION
U 97        TH                                          O                                I   SHARE % OF TOTAL bANK LOAN
T-aito                     9274                                                                                   -    ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
_-                                                                  -RIVERS
0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
G    PROVINCE CAPITALS
/                                                                                    i9   NArTONAL CAPITAL
S                                              C                                                                                      --- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Ton-Ian                                           |                                                                                       --  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES SAPPROXIMATE)
jOVEnARER n23
-                                                                                                                                      Is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OvEmBER I199t









IMAGING
Report No.:          16497
Type:      ICR



