                                                      CONFORMED COPY




                                              LOAN NUMBER 2806-7 MOR




                (Industrial Export Finance Project)


                              between


                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO


                                and


               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT




                        Dated July 27, 1987

                                              LOAN NUMBER 2806-7 MOR


                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 1987, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Wafabank (the Borrower), having
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and

     (B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to eight million
five hundred thousand dollars ($8,500,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake such other
obligations as provided in this Agreement; and

     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of   the   Borrower and to undertake such
other obligations;

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.

                            ARTICLE II

                             Guarantee

     Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, without limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.

                            ARTICLE III

                          Other Covenants

     Section 3.01. In order to encourage the export of         goods
manufactured in the Guarantor’s territory, the Guarantor       shall
carry out with due diligence and efficiency, and provide or    cause
to be provided promptly as needed, the funds, services and     other
resources required for:

     (a) a program of actions, agreed between the Guarantor and
the Bank designed to: (i) improve the systems of (A) taxation of
goods used in the manufacture of exports and (B) export financing
and guarantees; and (ii) improve the organization, management and
operations of the Guarantor’s agencies responsible for export
promotion and international trade matters; and

     (b) (i) studies, under terms of reference agreed between the
Guarantor and the Bank, to identify, evaluate and recommend
measures for improving export performance in the industrial
sector; and (ii) action plans, agreed between the Guarantor and
the Bank, for the implementation of the recommendations based on
said studies.

     Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall conclude and thereafter at
all times maintain with the Borrower arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, to protect the Borrower against the risk of losses
incurred by the Borrower resulting from changes in the rates of
exchange between currencies (including Dirhams) used in the
Borrower’s lending and borrowing operations under the Project.

     Section 3.03. Further to and without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor shall
take all action necessary to enable:

     (a) the Borrower to open and maintain accounts in such
foreign currencies and on such terms and conditions as shall be
necessary for the Borrower to comply with the provisions of the
Loan Agreement; and

     (b) each Exporter to obtain such foreign currencies as shall
be necessary for it to comply with its obligations referred to in
Part B (6) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.

                             ARTICLE IV

             Representative of the Guarantor; Address

     Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Guarantor:

          Ministry of Finance
          Rabat
          Kingdom of Morocco

          Cable address:                      Telex:

              MINISTERE FINANCES                  31936 M
              Rabat, Morocco

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                      Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
                                                   64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.



                      KINGDOM OF MOROCCO



                      By /s/ M. Bargach
                                           Authorized Representative



                      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                      By /s/ K. Dervis
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                               Europe, Middle East and North Africa
