Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11905-BO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 7, 1993
Country Department III
Human Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =     Boliviano (Bs)
Bs 1.00            =     US$0.25
US$1.00            =     Bs 4.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CONAPSO                  Consejo Nacional de Politica Social
(National Social Policy Council)
DHS                      Demographic and Health Survey
EC                       European Community
EIH                      Encuesta Integrada de Hogares
(Integrated Household Survey)
EMSO                     Economic Management Strengthening Operation
ESF                      Fondo de Emergencia Social
(Emergency Social Fund)
ETARE                    Equipo Tecnico de Apoyo a la Reforma Educativa
(Technical Team for Education Reform)
IHDP                     Integrated Health Development Project
INE                      Instituto Nacional de Estadfsticas
(National Institute of Statistics)
JNSDS                    Junta Nacional de Solidaridad y Desarrollo Social
(National Agency for Solidarity and Social Development)
MEC                      Ministerio de Educaci6n y Cultura
(Ministry of Education and Culture)
MPC                      Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinaci6n
(Ministry of Planning and Coordination)
MPSSP                    Ministerio de Previsi6n Social y Salud Publica
(Ministry of Social Assistance and Public Health)
NGO                      Non-Governmental Organization
ONAMFA                   Organismo Nacional del Menor, Mujer y Familia
(National Organization of Minors, Women and Family)
PIDI                     Proyecto Integral de Desarrollo Infantil
(Integrated Child Development Project)
SAFCO                    Sistema Integrado de Administraci6n Financiera y Control
(National Law for an Integrated System of Financial
Administration and Control)
SIP                      Social Investment Fund
SIG                      Sistema Informaci6n Gerencial
(Management Information System)
SSS                      Social Strategy Statement
SVEN                     Sistema de Vigilancia Epidemiol6gica Nacional
(National System of Epidemiological Surveillance)
UDAPSO                   Unidad de Analisis de Polftica Social
(Social Policy Analysis Unit)
UNDP                    United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF                   United Nations Children's Fund
USAID                    United States Agency for International Development
WFP                      World Food Programme
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- DHi -
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA SHEET  .......                     ....................  vi
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .................x i
1.     BACKGROUND   .......                    ....................  1
2.  SECTORAL CONTEXT ............                                               1
A. The Status of Women and Children in Social
Development  .......               ....................  1
B. Food Aid   .........                ....................  3
C. The Institutional Setting        ...................  3
3.  SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATGY.... 6
A. Issues.                                                              6
B. Govenment Sectoml Policy .10
4.   ASSISTANCE STRATEGY FOR THE SECTOR  ....... 11
A. Bank's Role and Strategy .................... 11
B.  IDA Experience and Lessons Leamed  ....                 ........ 12
5.   THE PROJECT ............................ 15
A. Project Objectives and Concept ................ 15
B.  Scope and Target Population .................. 16
C. Detailed Project Description .................. 18
This report is based on the findings of preparation missions which visited Bolivia in
September and November 1992, and January 1993, led by Mr. Xavier Coil (LA4HR) and
consisting of Messrs./Mmes. Jacques van der Giag, Nuria Homedes (LA3HR), Julie Van
Domelen (LA4HR), Alan Berg (PHN), Jean Paul Faguet (Resident Mission), Angel Gonzalez-
Malaxechovurrfa (LATPS) and Robert Myers (Consultant). An appraial mission visited Bolivia
in May 1993, consisting of Messrs./Mmes. Xavier Coil (mission leader, LA4HR), Karen
Lashman (LA3HR), Jean Paul Faguet (Resident Mission) and Robert Myers (Consultant).
Support for report preparation was provided by Mmes. Maria Victoria Lister and Neily Vergara.
The local preparation team, headed by Maria Gil de Liebers (Executive Director of ONAMFA)
received valuable support in the preparation of the project proposl from Dr. Fernando Vfo,
Mr. Santiapo Friedmann, Ms. Judith Evans, and a team from the Instituto Colombiano de
Bienestar Familiar (ICBF) composed of Mmes. Ruth Patino, Teresa Medina, Raquel Diaz Ortiz
and Francia Restrepo. Peor reviewers are Messrs. Alan D. Berg (PHN) and Laurence Wolff
(MNIPH). Messrs. Jacques van der Gaag and Yoshiski Abe were, respectively, the managing
Division Chief and Department Director.



- iv -
Page No.
6.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN  ... ....... 31
A. Project Costs .      ......................... 31
B. Recurrent Costs and Project Sustainability  .... ..... 32
C. Financing Plan ........         .................. 33
7.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .......                .......... 34
A. Project Management and Coordination ....      ........ 34
B. Institutional Arrangements .....       .............. 36
C. Implementation Schedule ......        .............. 36
D. Procurement  .........         .................. 37
E. Disbursements and Accounts .....        ............. 39
F. Financial Management, Accounting and Audits  ... ... 40
G. Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision ... ... 41
H. Environmental Impact ......        ................ 42
8.    EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS  .....              ......... 42
A.  Benefits  .............................. 42
B.    Risks   ................................ 42
9.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION .43
ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Organizational Structure of ONAMFA
Annex 2:   Project Coverage Objectives
Annex 3:   Sector Policy and Management Strengthening Component
(Matrix of Objectives, Outputs and Costs and Timeline)
Annex 4:   The Bolivian Civil Service Reform Program and ONAMFA
Positions to be Financed under the Credit
Annex 5:   Home Rehabilitation Component
Annex 6:   Management Information System and Impact Evaluation
System



Annex 7:   Detailed Project Cost Summary and Financing Plan by Year
Annex 8:   Supreme Decree No. 23415 (March 5, 1993)
Annex 9:   Organizational Stnrcture of the Integrated Child
Development Project
Annex 10: Studies to be Carried Out by ONAMFA
Annex 11:  Implementation Schedule
Annex 12:  Disbursement Forecast and Disbursement Allocations
Annex 13:  Supervision Schedule and Implementation Indicators
Annex 14:   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP:       IBRD No. 24922






- vu .
BOLIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOAMENT PROJECT
Basi Dab S
DATA  YEAR  SOURCE
A.    GENERAL COUNTRY DATA:
1. Total Area (Sq. Km.)                              1,099    1992    WDR
2. Total Population (Millions)                       7.2      Mid-    WDR
1990
3. Urban Population as % of Totdal                   51        1990    WDR
4. Pulation in Capital City
a a % of Urban                                 34        1990    WDR
as  % of Total                                 17        1990    WDR
S. Overall Incidonce of Urban Poverty (%)            55        1990    IHS
6. Women's Paricipation in the Labor Force,
Primarily in thebnformal Sector (%)            44        1986    DHS
of wbich Employmeat in Marginal Urban Ares     80        1986    DHS
(%)
7. GNP per Capita (USS)                              652       1991     UEM
B.       POPULATION DATA
1. Cnrde Birth Rate (Per 1000 Populaon)              36       1990    WDR
2. Cfude Deaih Rate (Per 1000 Populaon)              10        1990    WDR
3. Total Friy Rate (Births per Womn)                 4.8       1990    WDR
4. Women of Chilbeaing Age " % of All                47        1990    WDR
Women
S. Coruacpve Pvalence
(% of Women 15-49)                             18        1988    WDR
6. Wome's Risk of Dying of Pregnancy
Associated Cases (S)                           10        1988    DHS
7. Averag Annual Population Growth                   2.5       1990    WDR
1989-2000 (%)
S. Population Age Strcturm (S of Total)
14 and under                                   42.5      1990    WDR
15-64                                          54.1      1990    WDR
C.       HEALTH DATA
1. Life Expecn  at Birth (Yea)
Overa                                          60        1990    WDR
Female                                         62        1990    WDR
Male                                           S8        1990    WDR
2. Infant Mortality Rate (Per 1000 Live Birds)       96        1988    DHS
3. Maen  Motlity Rate (per 100,000 Live Birbas)      480       1980    WDR
4. Under-S Motality Rate (per 1000 Live Births)
Female                                         109       1990    WDR
Male                                           127       1990    WDR



- viii -
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Data Sheet
DATA    YEAR   SOURCE
5. Population per Physician                          1,530    1984    WDR
6. Population per Nurse                              2,470     1984    WDR
7. Birth Attended by Health Staff (X)                36        1985    WDR
8. Babies with Low Birth Weight (%)                  15        1985    WDR
9. Total Health Expenditures as Share of
Total Public Expenditures (%)                  2,3       1990    WDR
D.    NUTRITION DATA
1. Daily Calorie Supply (Per Capita)                 1,916    1989    WDR
2. Children between 3 months and 3 years age group
Underweight (%)                                13        1988    DHS
Stunted (%)                                    38        1988    DHS
E.    EDUCATION DATA
1. Total Adult Illitercy Rate (%)                    23        1990    WDR
of which Female                                29        1990    WDR
2. Total Primary School Enrollment (%)               81        1989    WDR
of which Female (%)                            77        1989    WDR
3. Primry Pupil Teacher Ratio                        25        1989    WDR
4. Total Secondary School Enrollment (%)             34        1989    WDR
of which Female (%)                            15        1989    WDR
5. Total Tertiary Education Enrollment (%)           23        1989    WDR
6. TotAl Education Expenditures as Share of Total
Public Expenditurs (%)                         18        1990    WDR
SOURCES:        World Development Report (WDR), World Bank, 1992; Integrated Household
Survey (IHS), Bolivia, 1990; Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS), Bolivia,
1989; Updating Economnic Memorandum (UEM), World Bank, 1992.



- ix -
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiary:           Organismo Nacional del Menor, Mujer y Familia (ONAMFA)
Credit Amount:         SDR 35.8 million, or US$50.7 million equivalent
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Project Objectives:    The proposed project supports the Social Strategy Statement (SSS) of the
Government of Bolivia (GOB) and its Ten-Year Action Plan for Children and
Women. It seeks to contribute toward poverty alleviation and human capital
development objectives by supporting the initiation of the Proyecto Integral de
Desarrollo Infantil (PIDI), thus expanding coverage and improving quality of
child development programs in poor urban and peri-urban areas of the 34 largest
cities. The specific objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) improve
children's readiness to succeed in school and beyond by facilitating their physical,
emotional, social and cognitive development; (b) enhance the status of women by
increasing their employment opportunities, and expanding their knowledge of
education, health and nutrition; and (c) increase community and private sector
participation in the social development process. An associated objective of the
project is to assist the GOB to strengthen its capacity to formulate and evaluate
social policy.
Project Description:   The project comprises three main components:
(1) The Sector Policy Development and Management Strengthening
component (US$4.0 million equivalent) would enhance the public sector's
capacity to formulate and evaluate social policy by supporting: (a) studies and
technical assistance to permit the broadening of policy foundations in the areas of
food security and nutrition, refinement of measures of child development, and
extension of integrated child development services to rural areas, including
financing for pilot projects; and (b) consolidation of ONAMFA's recent
modernization efforts and its incorporation into the Civil Service Reform
Program (CSRP). Funding would be provided for technical assistance;
incremental salaries for 33 key ONAMFA positions to be brought under the
CSRP (on a declining basis); and computer and office equipment, and training.
(2) The Service Delivery Support component (US$133.6 million equivalent)
would support the delivery of integrated child development services to poor
children 6 months to 6 years of age by placing in operation over the project life
some 8,600 non-formal, home-based day-care centers, each of which would
provide integrated services to about 15 children by two to three caregivers



(depending on the age-mix of the children) who would be selected from the
community. Caregivers would receive a monthly stipend for their services
(roughly equivalent to a minimum salary) and beneficiaries would contribute a
monthly user charge. Communities to participate in the project would be selected
on the basis of poverty maps, and the children within them on the basis of
distinct household socioeconomic criteria, with highest priority assigned to
malnourished children. The component specifically would: (a) further develop
and strengthen the project's operational structure at the central and regional
levels; (b) refine mechanisms for targeting beneficiaries and selecting caregivers;
(c) provide initial and in-service training to caregivers to respond to early
education, nutrition and health service needs of the children; (d) promote the
formation and build the capacity of parents' associations to assist in project
administration; (e) finance, via a mixed grant-loan, the rehabilitation of those
caregivers' homes which are to serve as day-care sites; (f) directly provide
children with nutrition supplementation and a basic package of integrated early
education services and, through cooperative agreements with local (public or
private) referral health centers, ensure their access to key preventive and curative
health services; and (g) for pregnant women who are caregivers or have children
participating in the project, secure preferential user fees for services, thus
increasing their access to appropriate maternity care, family planning education
and services, and health and nutrition services. To these ends, the proposed
project would finance furniture, equipment and supplies for the day-care centers;
home rehabilitation; technical assistance; caregivers' stipends (on a declining
basis), training and supervision; vehicles, equipment and supplies for project
administration; a health fund (on a declining basis) to help finance diagnostic and
treatment services for malnourished children from extremely poor families; food
commodities (not IDA financed); and salaries of incremental positions for
national and regional project teams (on a declining basis).
(3) The Monitoring and Evaluation component (US$2.6 million equivalent)
would support close project performance monitoring and impact evaluation by
developing and implementing: (a) a management information system to monitor
timeliness in achieving coverage targets and quality of services delivered; and the
overall soundness of project administration and financing; and (b) an impact
evaluation system, based on data generated from the Integrated Household Survey
(EIH) and special modules on health, nutrition and child development status, and
the conduct of special longitudinal studies and sociological surveys. The project
would finance requisite technical assistance and computers and equipment for the
operation of these systems.
Project Benefits:       By the end of the proposed project life, an installed capacity of some 8,600 day-
care centers would exist to annually provide non-formal, home-based, integrated
child development services to 130,000 of the country's poorest pre-school
children, 6 months to 6 years of age; and cumulatively, by project end, given
anticipated promotions of six year olds, more than 200,000 children are expected
to have benefitted. Women also would be direct beneficiaries through project
contributions to expanding employment opportunities (employing caregivers



- xi -
and, via access to day-care, enabling mothers of participating children to work)
and improving their knowledge of education, health and nutrition. Specifically,
by its completion, the project would have trained and employed some 21,000
caregivers, most of whom are expected to be women. Approximately 8,600 of
these caregivers also would benefit from access to credit to upgrade their homes
and, via direct beneficiary contributions, assistance in the payment of basic utility
bills to help offset the cost of using their homes for day-care centers. Significant
improvements also are expected in the health and nutritional status of an
estimated 16,000 pregnant women who either have children participating in the
project, or are caregivers, as project-secured preferential user fees would increase
utilization of pre- and post-natal care, safe deliveries, and family planning, and
health and nutrition education and services. An additional benefit would be the
GOB's strengthened ability to formulate and evaluate social policy, particularly in
early childhood development, and food and nutrition.
Project Risks:          Principal risks relate to: (a) the possibility that the extensive project
implementation demands might outstrip ONAMFA's managerial and
administrative capacities; (b) uncertainties over the continuity of the GOB's initial
commitment to absorb fully project-generated recurrent costs over the project life,
crucial to its sustainability; and (c) the danger that desired improvements in
children's nutritional status will not be achieved because of failure to maintain
adequate dietary intake at the household level. With regard to (a), this risk
should be minimized by: direct project support for ONAMFA's modernization
initiative; ONAMFA's planned full incorporation into the CSRP, thus facilitating
recruitment and retention of high quality staff; anticipated active assistance of
NGOs and community groups in project implementation; project-supported
contracting of external supervision staff to permit ONAMFA's close, continuous
oversight of day-care activities; a very conservative implementation timetable,
based on moderate increases in coverage objectives during the first half of the
project, and annual and mid-term project reviews to assess implementation
progress and adjust the pace and scope of implementation, as needed. With
regard to (b), the GOB has committed itself to a solid financing plan and to
gradually assuming recurrent costs on a clearly specified annual basis, including
those generated by the CSRP. To help ensure continuing commitment to this
plan, the GOB will review annually with IDA an updated financial plan for the
successive three years of project implementation. In addition, the GOB will
review with IDA at the project's Mid-Term Review its overall social sector
investment plan to ensure that adequate provision is made for project financing.
The issuance of the March 1993 Supreme Decree committing counterpart
resources to the project also should minimize this risk. And with regard to (c),
intensive health and nutrition education activities targeted toward parents of
children participating in the project seek to minimize this risk.






BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
1.1   The economic policy, adopted by the Government of Bolivia in 1985,
has been highly successful in stabilizing the economy and in reducing internal
and external imbalances. As a result of the adjustment program, the public
sector deficit was lowered and inflation was brought under control. For the
first time in nearly a decade, the economy attained a positive Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) growth rate of 2.6 percent in 1987, and continuous prudent
macroeconomic management permitted the recovery to be sustained with
steady annual GDP growth of 2.7 percent on average through 1990. During
1991 and 1992, the economic situation continued to improve, with GDP
growth of 4.1 percent and 3.8 percent, respectively.
1.2   Despite good economic management in recent years, Bolivia aces a
difficult set of development challenges. Per capita Gross National Product
(GNP) of US$652 (1991) is among the lowest in Latin America, and the
economic situation remains fragile. Moreover, the major macroeconomic
adjustments of the last decade have not been accompanied by corresponding
reductions in the levels of poverty or improvements in social indicators.
Distribution of the economic and social benefits of growth remains highly
skewed. While the 1976 census indicated that 80 percent of all households
were poor, data from the 1990 Integrated Household Survey (EIH) revealed
an overall incidence of urban poverty of approximately 55 percent, with an
even worse situation in certain cities, such as El Alto and Potosf, where 70
percent of the households are deemed poor. Preliminary data from the 1992
census suggest that severe poverty remains pervasive. Key social indicators
are among the worst in the Region, with about one-quarter of the adult
population illiterate, and life expectancy at birth of only 60 years (1990), or
below the average for lower middle-income economies.
2. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. The Status of Women and Children in Social Development
2.1   Women and young children are disproportionately represented among
the poor and face especially difficult circumstances. Women are twice as
likely to be illiterate as men, have limited access to child care, face
discrimination in hiring practices and in wage determination, have virtually
no access to credit from official or formal financial institutions, and are
restricted by law from engaging in some productive activities. With



increased migration to cities, women's participation in the labor force rose
from 27 percent in 1976 to 44 percent in 1989. This employment is
primarily in the informal sector (representing over 80 percent of female jobs
in marginal urban areas). While most women are forced to work to help
support their families, social norms dictate that they remain the principal
caretakers of their children. The difficulty of maintaining this dual role is
exacerbated in urban areas where extended family arrangements typical of
rural areas are not prevalent. Given limited access to day-care, many women
must either leave their children alone at home or opt for relatively low
paying jobs where their children can accompany them. As a result, both
women and children suffer.
2.2   Maternal mortality rates are excessive. According to recent estimates,
a woman's lifetime risk of dying of pregnancy-associated causes is 10
percent. Poor women rarely have access to health care and their utilization
of services is low: 53 percent of women receive no prenatal or postnatal
care, and only about 40 percent deliver in health facilities. High fertility is
one of the principal contributing causes to poor health status of both women
and infants. In 1990, the total fertility rate was estimated at 4.8 children.
Modem contraceptive methods are used by only 18 percent of women of
reproductive age, and abortion (induced or spontaneous) accounts for more
than one-fourth of all maternal deaths.
2.3  Infants and young children are exceptionally vulnerable to illness and
death. No reliable data on infant mortality exist. Recent estimates range
from 96 per 1000 live births, based on a Demographic and Health Survey
(DHS) carried out in 1988, to 102 per 1,000 live births according to data
from the public health system--among the highest infant mortality rates in
Latin America. Importantly, large differentials in health status persist across
income groups. Health risks, already high because of the pathogenic
environment in which much of the population live, are compounded by the
limited coverage of preventive health services. For example, just 7 percent
of infants have completed the full vaccination regimen by the end of the first
year of life, and only 19 percent of children between 12 and 23 months of
age are fully immunized.
2.4   Malnutrition is pervasive, contributing to excessive morbidity and
mortality. According to the DHS, 13 percent of children in the 3 months to
3 years age group are underweight (i.e., low weight-for-age) and 38 percent
are stunted (i.e., short height-for-age), reflecting chronic malnutrition. Data
suggest that much of the nutritional deterioration occurs after the first 6
months of age, coinciding with the weaning period when breastfeeding should
be supplemented by solid foods to meet nutritional needs. Both the extent of
malnutrition and its distribution among different degrees remained fairly
constant over the 1988-1991 period, despite substantial food aid and increases
in commodity assistance. This strongly suggests that such aid has not been
adequately targeted to the highest risk groups.



B. Food Aid
2.5   Food aid has become an integral part of Bolivia's social development
programs. According to Government estimates, such external assistance
slightly exceeds total national health expenditures and represents three times
the Treasury's annual budgetary support to the Ministry of Social Assistance
and Public Health (MPSSP). In 1992 alone, food aid was on the order of
300,000 metric tons, with a value of about US$116 million. The United
States, the World Food Programme (WVFP), the European Community (EC),
Canada, Spain, France, Holland and Argentina are the major sources of food
assistance. U.S. food aid for Bolivia has increased strikingly over the past
two years, from US$40.9 million in 1991 to US$97.9 million in 1992,
currently representing 83 percent of all commodity aid. It is channeled by
the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) via two main
programs. Title U provides food and/or money (from the monetization of
food) to some 1.6 million poor through NGO-administered programs
including school feeding (48 percent), mothers' clubs (20 percent), food-for-
work (17 percent), pre-school milk centers (12 percent), with the balance in
clinic-based food supplementation programs and assorted other programs.
The second conduit of U.S. food aid, the Title III program, supports broad
food security objectives via use of policy conditionality and local currency
programming, to finance food imports.
2.6    Administration of such substantial inflows of food aid presents
numerous challenges, from its adequate transportation, storage and
distribution, and local financing thereof, to prevention of spoilage, and
diversion. To date, in depth evaluations of the effectiveness of targeting and
overall impact of food aid have been generally lacking. The proposed project
seeks to provide a coherent framework for targeting food aid to the neediest
subgroups, through both the formulation of a national food and nutrition
policy, and the rechannelling of a substantial share of existing food aid to
children participating in child development activities.
C. The Institutional Setting
2.7  In 1971, the Junta Naional de Desarrollo Social (JNSDS) was
created as an autonomous agency to provide protection and social assistance
to children and the elderly, particularly those from the most vulnerable
socioeconomic groups. Presided over by the spouse of the President of the
Republic, children's services provided by JNSDS (since March 1993, the
Organismo Nacional del Menor, Mujer y Familia--ONAMFA) have included:
health care, nutrition supplementation, provision of clothing and housing,
legal advice, psychological counseling, training, and care for the disabled.
Its family- and community-based programs have encompassed community
kitchens, multi-purpose clinics, family legal assistance, training in productive



- 4 -
activities, community greenhouses, provision of day care, shelter for abused
women, and assistance programs for the elderly. The agency's service
delivery network includes 109 children's homes, 20 homes for the elderly, 9
health clinics, 14 family legal centers, and 22 day-care centers. As part of
its mandate, JNSDS/ONAMFA also has been overseeing the inplementation
of laws pertaining to children, including adoptions, evaluations to determine
custody of children, matters pertaining to social problems and abuse, and
legal infractions committed by minors.
2.8   To carry out these programs, the agency employs a staff of
approximately 1,200 distributed between its central and 9 regional and 74
sub-regional offices. Its organizational structure is highly decentralized.
Less than 10 percent of its personnel are located in its central headquarters.
Fifty-six percent of its staff are involved in direct service delivery, including
doctors, nurses and educators assigned to health clinics, multi-purpose
centers, and homes for children and the elderly. In the past, the ability of
the institution to effectively manage its programs was limited by a lack of
technical and administrative capacity, by an emphasis on charity over
sustainable social programs, and by a dearth of leadership. This situation
reduced its ability to attract internal and external resources and led to a
deterioration in the quality of service provision.
2.9   The Restructuring of the JNSDS. In 1989, subsequent to a
comprehensive institutional analysis, JNSDS initiated a major restructuring
program designed to increase efficiency, attract external resources, and focus
more effectively on the needs of vulnerable groups. The principal elements
of this restructuring include: (a) modernization of its organizational
structure, reducing the number of departments and divisions, and
streamlining its personnel complement; (b) implementation of computerized
financial and administrative control systems; (c) adoption of personnel
policies to improve the quality and distribution of staff; (d) a programmatic
shift to community-based preventive programs; and (e) increased cooperation
with non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and community groups, and
relatedly a reduced role in the direct management of facilities.
2.10 As part of its reorganization, with UNICEF support, JNSDS adopted
a revised administrative and financial structure. Revisions were made in key
systems including accounting, budgeting, inventory, warehouses, asset
control, and personnel to comply with the new national law requiring an
Integrated System of Financial Administration and Control (the SAFCO
Law). Computerization of these systems at the central and regional levels
has resulted in substantial gains in transparency and efficiency. Notably,
budget execution increased from 73 percent in 1988 to 95 percent in 1991.
In addition, JNSDS's improved image and financial control systems helped
mobilize US$9 million in external resources over the 1990/1991 period.
Improvements notwithstanding, administrative capacity remains weak,
particularly in its smaller regional offices. Future efforts to consolidate
ONAMFA's progress in strengthening its administrative systems must focus



- 5 -
on the full implementation of these systems at the regional level, including
recruitment and training of administrative and financial personnel.
2.11  During the restructuring process, JNSDS adopted policies to improve
the quality and distribution of its staff. The number of personnel was
reduced from 1,548 to 1,200 while, concomitantly, better trained technical
staff were recruited at higher salaries. A cornerstone of its revised personnel
policy is the agency's incorporation into the initial phase of the Civil Service
Reform Program (CSRP). This program, executed through the Ministry of
Finance, seeks to create a stable and high quality core of civil servants
through staffing of key positions at competitive salary levels to be selected
through a transparent, merit-based process. To qualify, a public agency must
satisfy a number of prerequisites, including having comprehensive operational
manuals, computerized administrative systems, and detailed job descriptions,
including qualifications. JNSDS/ONAMFA was among the first agencies to
meet these prerequisites (para. 3.4).
2.12 JNSDS/ONAMFA also reoriented its programmatic goals to place
greater emphasis on community level preventive services. To this end,
JNSDS has entered into management service contracts with local and
international NGOs for the administration of its shelters for orphans,
abandoned children and the elderly. By the end of 1992, over 80 percent of
its homes for children and the aged had been delegated to NGO
administration. This arrangement has leveraged additional resources from
NGOs and improved the management of facilities.
2.13 The centerpiece of JNSDS' restructuring has been the drafting of the
Minor's Law (C6digo del Menor), approved by Congress in December 1992.
This law redefines the nature of the JNSDS and its operations under a new
name, the Organismo Nacional del Menor, Mujer y Familia (National
Agency for Minors, Women and the Family--ONAMFA). ONAMFA's new
organizational structure at the central and regional levels is presented in
Annex 1. The law sets overall policy on issues pertaining to children and the
family (e.g., the rights of minors, judicial processes applicable to minors,
adoption procedures, and conditions by which NGOs may provide social
assistance services). ONAMFA remains an autonomous agency under the
Presidency, but will not necessarily be managed by the First Lady. The law
further stipulates that the President of ONAMFA will be appointed by the
President of the Republic from a list of three candidates approved by a two-
thirds majority of Congress.
2.14 ONAMFA will be managed by a Board of Directors comprised of
nine members, including: (a) four representatives from government
ministries; (b) one representative from the Bolivian Workers' Union (COB);
(c) two representatives from NGOs; and (d) ONAMFA's President and
Executive Director (the latter of whom has a voice but no voting power).
The Board of Directors will set overall policies and strategies, review the
annual work plan and budget, approve intemal regulations and appoint the



-6 -
executive Director. ONAMFA's clout and capacity to guide social policy
formulation has been strengthened by its recent incorporation into the
National Social Policy Council (CONAPSO).
2.15 Following the adoption of the Minor's Law, a Decreto Reglamentario
was approved in March 1993 which further defines ONAMFA's
administrative and operational regulations as well as the intemal structure and
functions of its central and regional levels. The approval of the Decreto
Reglamentario constituted a condition of appraisal of the proposed project.
3. SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
A. Issues
3.1  Institutional Capacity. Most public institutions in the social sectors
face common institutional constraints to meeting poverty alleviation
objectives, including: (a) structures characterized by highly centralized
decision-making, weak planning and policy making capacity, over-staffing of
administrative jobs, low salaries and inadequate personnel training; and (b)
inadequate attention to demand-driven programs and, relatedly, beneficiary
participation.
3.2  If national programs effectively are to target the most vulnerable
groups, institutional capacity to formulate policy and coordinate its
implementation is critical. In the past, this capacity has been weak due to
several factors: (a) poor communication with and little planning input from
regional and local levels; (b) absence of ability or power to coordinate the
plethora of donor and NGO interventions; (c) a proliferation of self-contained
project implementation units virtually independent from the coordinating
ministry, yet carrying out line functions; and (d) a general dearth of sound
policy units at the center. The result has been duplication of projects in
certain areas and complete absence of intervention in others. Many
ministries have become totally ineffective in fulfilling their intended
normative role. Sub-national levels of government have little authority or
resources to fill the service coverage gap.
3.3  In response to a recognized lack of leadership in formulation of social
sector policies, the National Council on Social Policy (CONAPSO) was
created in 1989. Chaired by the President of the Republic, it is comprised of
the Minister of Planning and Coordination (MPC), and Ministers of Social
Assistance and Public Health, Education and Culture, and Labor. In 1992,
to provide technical support to CONAPSO, the Government created a Social
Policy Analysis Unit (UDAPSO) within the MPC. CONAPSO and UDAPSO
are steps in the right direction. Nevertheless, their technical capacity must
be strengthened to consolidate policies, analyze information and design
priority interventions in the areas of poverty alleviation, education, health



- 7 -
and nutrition. Still in its nascent stage, UDAPSO has been well staffed and
is beginning to play an influential role. The proposed project would support
UDAPSO's objective to develop a comprehensive national food and nutrition
policy as well as strengthen its project evaluation capacity.
3.4   Social programs cannot be successful if institutions responsible for
delivering services are characterized by inefficiency and inadequate human
resources. The public sector long has been a haven for surplus employment
of poorly qualified technical staff who in tum receive low basic salaries.
Compounding these difficulties are the distortions created by both
Government and donor provision of salary supplements and non-salary
bonuses. In 1988, in response to a persistent public sector management
crisis, and with the assistance of United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) and IDA, the Government prepared a Public Sector Management
Strengthening Program. This program aimed at rationalizing the uneven
wage structure and creating conditions of stability within the civil service.
Institution of the first phase of this program was financed by IDA through an
Economic Management Strengthening Operation (EMSO) and resulted in the
formulation of the Civil Service Reform Program (CSRP) under the overall
management of the Ministry of Finance. Its second phase, delineated in
Supreme Decree 2336 approved in November 1992, establishes CSRP's
objectives and procedures and provides the framework for the selection into
CSRP of govermment agencies and ministries. In January 1993, the Ministry
of Finance approved ONAMFA's incorporation into the CSRP.
3.5   The failure of the public sector to carefully listen to social welfare
needs, as defined by the communities, and to systematically seek direct
participation of community organizations and NGOs, hampers successful
implementation of targeted social service programs. Increased efforts must
be made to ensure the capacity of local organizations be effectively combined
with those of government and community groups. The proposed project
actively promotes the creation and strengthening of local community groups,
(e.g., parents' associations), and emphasizes their and/or NGOs direct
involvement in integrated child development programs, through either
assisting ONAMFA in the administration of project activities in a given
geographic area, or their participation in discrete project components (e.g.,
training and supervision).
3.6 The new Minor's Law and the internal restructuring program
specifically address the need to enhance ONAMFA's institutional capacity
and operational focus, the lack of which have beleaguered its effectiveness in
the past. New procedures for appointment of central and regional level
managers, pursuant to its incorporation into the CSRP, are expected to help
ONAMFA secure more highly qualified technical staff and continuity in key
personnel. Nevertheless, ONAMFA's capacity, particularly at the regional
level, to administer a large program is untested. Therefore, the project seeks
to reinforce its central and regional offices through a management
strengthening component.



-8 -
3.7   Service Delivery and Support. Inadequate coverage, low quality and
pervasive inefficiencies in the operation of basic social services in many low-
income areas can seriously undermine achievement of child development
objectives. The paucity of potable water and sanitation services in most of
the proposed project areas is a key underlying cause of poor overall health
status, increasing the incidence of diarrheal diseases and, thus, contributing
to malnutrition. At any given time, some 30 percent of children under the
age of five suffer from diarrhea, mainly related to poor water quality. In
addition, health outreach services in most poor urban and peri-urban areas
are either absent or non-functional. Not only are preventive services limited
in scope and coverage, but their impact is limited due to often ill-conceived
cost recovery policies, poor definition and execution of priority interventions,
and excessive dependence on bilateral assistance programs not necessarily
coordinated or set within a national social development policy framework.
3.8   The proposed project aims to stimulate the demand for basic social
services by: (a) promoting community initiatives to formulate and submit
project proposals for water and sanitation services to institutions such as the
Social Investment Fund (SIF); (b) establishing criteria for continued
beneficiary participation in the project that include full immunization of all
children within six months of program enrollment, and securing preferential
fees to facilitate utilization of pre- and post-natal care and safe deliveries for
all pregnant women with participating children; and (c) signing of formal
inter-institutional agreements between ONAMFA and MPSSP (both at the
national and the service delivery levels) or with private health institutions that
guarantee provision of a basic package of health and related services to
project beneficiaries.
3.9   Coverage and Quality of Public Health Services. Even in urban
and peri-urban areas where a substantial network of public health facilities
exists, service provision is minimal in terms of both quantity and quality. In
rural areas, the paucity of access to care is critical. In fact, only about one-
third of the total population receives adequate health care. This stems from
inadequacies at all stages of programming, from health sector planning and
financing to actual delivery and monitoring of services. The public health
system also is characterized by inadequate organization, management and
coordination. Excessive centralization of the MPSSP has precluded
assumption of its intended normative, policy formulation and coordinative
role. The lack of firm sector leadership contributes to a fragmentation of
responsibilities between the MPSSP, the Bolivian Institute of Social Security
and the private sector, including NGOs.
3.10   Given the importance of a well functioning local health system to the
optimal operation of integrated child development programs, several steps
have been taken to address sectoral weaknesses and, thus, support the
proposed project. First, as a corollary to its direct project support, UNICEF
has agreed to target its activities to upgrade matemnal/child health services
within public health facilities in communities to be served by the project.



-9 -
Such upgrading will include provision of essential equipment,
pharmaceuticals and supplies (e.g., scales), and training of personnel in
primary health care provision. Second, ONAMFA is actively promoting
operational alliances with NGOs and community groups to assist and closely
monitor operations of local health facilities. Third, where available and
appropriate, private health facilities will be contracted by ONAMFA to
provide core maternal/child health services to program beneficiaries, building
on successful experiences during the project's pilot phase.
3.11  Nutrition Policy and Programs. Despite the extent and severity of
malnutrition, Bolivia has neither a national nutrition nor food security policy.
Nutrition interventions are generally untargeted and dispersed among a vast
number of implementing agencies, have inconsistent and sometimes
contradictory objectives, and fail to ensure continuity of services. The
Government lacks a focal point to coordinate such programs and, in the
absence of an ongoing evaluation system, has only fragmentary knowledge of
projects under implementation. Though the amount of food aid is significant,
the Government has little control over how this food is used. In addition,
minimal attention has been given in the past to the issues of general food
consumption and availability. Typically, social sector initiatives (e.g.,
nutrition surveillance, micronutrient supplementation) and agriculture
production have been disconnected. The proposed project would support
establishment and consolidation of the Government's capacity to formulate
food and nutrition policy, and monitor its implementation.
3.12 Design of Early Child Development Programs. To be effective,
design of early child development programs must pay careful attention to
several issues. First, programs should precisely target communities and
families within them whose children are at high risk of delayed or inadequate
development. Attaining the desired impact is directly related to setting strict
participation criteria. Second, early childhood development programs require
a comprehensive and integrated strategy. Child development encompasses
much more than solely cognitive development. It crosses disciplinary and
sectomal lines, involving the equally important areas of physical, social and
emotional development. Third, experience suggests that family and
community participation increases the chances of program impact and
sustainability as well as increases overall resources. Since mobilizing such
participation requires time, it often conflicts with pressures to rapidly
increase coverage. Hence, special attention must be given to securing real
participation. Fourth, programs should aspire to deliver high quality
interventions. The measure of quality transcends provision of adequate
facilities and materials. Indeed, its most important determinant is the quality
of field workers in terms of both their selection criteria as well as their day-
to-day technical capacity, a product of initial and continuing training, the
latter of which is intimately linked to supervision. Fifth, programs should be
flexible and adjusted, as necessary, to local conditions and distinct cultural
needs. Active participation of NGOs and community groups from the design
stage through program implementation and evaluation is a crucial mechanism



- 10 -
to guarantee cultural appropriateness and relevance. Sixth, programs should
try to reach the largest possible number of children at risk, while taking into
account actual implementation capacity and quality objectives. The design of
the proposed project systematically has explored and incorporated features to
respond to each of these areas.
B. Government Sectoral Policy
3.13  The Government's sectoral policy is defined in its Social Strategy
Statement (Estrategia Social Boliviana--SSS) of September 1991. Supreme
Decree 22964 of November 1991 provides the policy's legal framework.
SSS stresses the need to concentrate government action on human capital
development by increasing social investment allocations, strengthening the
informnation base for social policy decision-making, and increasing efficiency
of resource use through sectoral reform, better targeting of policies and
programs, and improved coordination with NGOs. The Privatization Law
requires that net resources generated from privatization efforts be used for
regional social and economic infrastructure projects; and the Government
expects that these initiatives will increase substantially the availability of
public funds for the social sectors.
3.14 The creation of CONAPSO and UDAPSO has enhanced government
capacity to analyze and formulate social policy. UDAPSO is expected to
conduct applied policy research in the following areas: health, education,
food policy and nutrition, women in development, micro-enterprises,
poverty, and social statistics. Based on 1992 Census data, and with technical
support from the National Institute of Statistics (INE), UDAPSO now is
elaborating a detailed poverty map.
3.15  A technical team attached to the MPC, the Equipo Tecnico de Apoyo
a la Reforma Educanva (ETARE), was established in June 1991 to design an
education reform proposal to improve the quality and overall efficiency of the
education system. The reform directives, which call for a complete
institutional re-structuring of the education system, received support in July
1991 of all political parties in the country.
3.16 Following guidelines set forth in the SSS, a Ten-Year Action Plan for
Children and Women (Plan Decenal de Acci6n para la Ninez y la Mujer) was
elaborated by an inter-ministerial and multidisciplinary team. This
operationally-oriented Plan focuses on regional interventions primarily in the
areas of health and nutrition, education, water and sanitation, children in
difficult circumstances, and women. Among its key programmatic areas are:
the National Program for Women, and the Proyecto Integral de Desarrollo
Infanhil (Integrated Child Development Project--PIDI). The Government
views the implementation of PIDI as a central strategy of the Plan Decenal's
objective to enhance the welfare of young children and women.



- I1 -
4. ASSISTANCE STRATEGY FOR THE SECTOR
A. Bank's Role and Strategy
4.1  IDA's country assistance strategy focuses on supporting the economic
reform program, including the Government's efforts to: streamline the public
sector and, concomitantly, strengthen its performance; promote private sector
development; enhance aid coordination; and ameliorate poverty by improving
the overall coverage and quality of social services. With regard to the latter,
highest priority is assigned to building the institutional capacity of the social
sectors, and relatedly to alleviating poverty, especially among the most
vulnerable subgroups--infants, children and female heads of household--by
assisting selective well-targeted interventions.
4.2  In 1990, IDA completed an assessment of the extent of poverty as
well as government initiatives in poverty alleviation. The report (8643-BO)
examines the macroeconomic policies and their effects on the poor, reviews
institutional constraints to poverty alleviation, and assesses the present
situation and initiatives in the areas of health, education, agriculture and
transportation. Conclusions support the Government's medium- and long-
term objectives of defining policies in the social sectors that improve
efficiency and remove inequities in spending. In health, the report
recommends that priority be given to implementing maternal health and child
survival programs and shifting expenditures towards more cost-effective
interventions such as immunizations, pre- and post-natal care and safe
deliveries, family planning, and nutrition supplementation and education.
Other recommendations include addressing institutional constraints through
improvements in financial management and staffing.
4.3  IDA has previously extended support for an Emergency Social Fund
(ESF), the Social Investment Fund (SIF), and a health project. Since 1990,
it also has been supporting preparation of an Education Reform project. In
1986, the Government created the ESF as its primary mechanism for directly
improving the condition of the poor and for addressing the deterioration in
social conditions stemming from economic adjustment measures. ESF
achieved great success by relying on a demand-driven approach and
establishing a close cooperative relationship with NGOs and other private
groups working at the local level. While some limitations existed in
targeting resources to the neediest groups, the ESF proved to be highly
successful in providing temporary employment to individuals displaced by the
economic crisis and in strengthening the country's social infrastructure. IDA
supported the ESF with two credits (1829-BO, of US$10 million equivalent,
intended as a pilot project, and 1882-BO of US$27 million equivalent,
intended as support for the main phase of ESF operations). ESF was closed
in March 1991.



- 12 -
4.4   Drawing on the ESF experience, SIF (supported by Credit 2127-BO)
was created in 1990 as an institution capable of attracting and effectively
channeling external resources to help address the country's health and
education development needs. Rather than adopting ESF's central goal of
employment generation, SEF has focused on providing financing for sub-
projects aimed at improving the health and education status of the poorest
communities. A recent mid-term review of SIF is expected to guide future
investments in this area. The Integrated Health Development Project
(IHDP), supported by Credit 2092-BO which was approved in 1989, supports
MPSSP's institutional development, improved training and distribution of
human resources, and the implementation of a comprehensive health care
model in the cities of Santa Cruz, Cochabamba, and La Paz/El Alto. It has
suffered considerable implementation delays owing both to frequent project
management turnover, and more generally to weaknesses in institutional,
financial and procurement systems in the public health sector. These
problems were addressed in a recent Country Implementation Review, and
actions were agreed with Government to ensure recruitment and retention of
high quality staff for key project management positions.
4.5   The proposed Education Reform Project would support the
Government's objective to restructure and strengthen the education sector. It
would provide financing for developing the MEC's capacity to establish
policy guidelines; strengthening the qualifications of teachers at the primary
and secondary level; preparing the basis for a curriculum reform; and laying
the basis for improving access to education for the most disadvantaged
groups (i.e., women and rural populations).
4.6   The proposed project is consistent with the IDA country strategy,
supports one of the core programs of the Government's Social Strategy
Statement, and complements ongoing and planned IDA-supported operations.
B. IDA Experience and Lessons Learned
4.7   Overall, project design builds on, and has benefitted extensively from
lessons learned in numerous social programs across a wide spectrum of
countries in terms of levels of socioeconomic development, and institutional
capacity, as captured in four principal sources of information: (a) review of
research literature; (b) international context and experiences; (c) Bank-wide
education and nutrition sector experience; and (d) early childhood
development experiences in Bolivia.
4.8   Review of Research iUterature. In preparation for the recently
approved Initial Education Project in Mexico (Loan 3518-ME), a research
review was carried out, summarized in a Bank Green Cover Report (No.
10129-ME; February 1992)--The Initial Education Strategy. Early childhood
development experiences are also reviewed in an LATBR document (A View



- 13 -
from LATHR No.32--Early Childhood Development Programs in Latin
America: Towards Definition of an Investment Strategy, August, 1992), and
in Report No. EDT69, "The Eleven Who Survive: Toward a Re-
Examination of Early Childhood Development Program Options and Costs'
(March 1987). These documents underscore that both scientific evidence and
previous project experience provide strong evidence for investing in
integrated attention to care and development of young children.
4.9  International Experiences and Lessons Leared. In recent years,
three intemational events have catalyzed renewed interest and commitments
by the intemational donor community and governments to expand access and
enhance the quality of early childhood education. First, the Convention on
the Rights of the Child was adopted by the United Nations Assembly in
November 1989. Second, the World Conference on Education for All, held
in March, 1990 in Thailand under the sponsorship of the World Bank,
UNDP, the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO), placed special emphasis on the expansion of early childhood
care and development through family involvement and community
interventions, especially for poor and disadvantaged children. Third, the
World Summit for Children, held at the United Nations in September 1990,
promoted such initiatives.
4.10 Non-formal early childhood development interventions have been a
major area of innovation worldwide, especially in Latin America. The most
relevant experiences come from: (a) India, Integrated Child Development
Services Project, with Bank support (Loan No.3253-IN); (b) Colombia
Hogares de Bienestar Infantil, supported by the Bank-financed Community
Child Care and Nutrition Project (Loan No.3201-CO); (c) Mexico, Initial
Education Project, with Bank support (Loan No.3518-ME); (d) Kenya,
Harambees--Let's pull together--movement); (e) Brazil (Creches
Comunitarias, or Community Nurseries); (f) the United Kingdom
(Playground Movement); and (g) Venezuela (Hogares de Cuidado Diario, or
Day-Care Homes). Experience from integrated nutrition projects (e.g., the
Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project--Loan No.2158-IN) is also relevant to the
design of early childhood development projects.
4.11 Lessons learned from these international experiences include:
(a) child development projects are cost-effective, with the costs of the early
intervention more than offset by the savings resulting from the reduction in
primary school repetition in the first and second grades; (b) non-formal child
development approaches appear to focus more effectively on intended target
groups, demonstrate a wider spectrum of long-lasting benefits, and are more
cost-effective than formal modalities; (c) high supervision ratios are key to
project quality and success; (d) sustainability of activities and benefits
depends on effective community participation; and (e) effective child
development requires the integration of education, health and nutrition
services.



- 14 -
4.12 The Hogares de Bienestar Infantil project in Colombia is the closest
in purpose and design to the proposed project and has demonstrated that it is
feasible to mount an early childhood development project on a large scale
(current enrollment figures suggest coverage of some 800,000 children
between 2 and 7 years of age). An evaluation of the project was carried out
in 1992 and concluded the following. First, the project appears to be
reaching the target population. Second, positive effects on beneficiary
children are found with respect to the development of gross and fine motor
skills, language, social skills and general development, despite a lack of
significant effect on nutritional status. Third, the project improved
employment opportunities for women. The evaluation estimates that about 25
percent of women (i.e., caregivers and mothers of participating children)
changed employment from (mainly) homemaking, domestic service and
handicrafts to (mainly) employment as caregivers and work in "commercial"
jobs. Finally, the utilization of health services by beneficiaries substantially
increased. The lack of effect on nutritional status is associated with problems
in ensuring the constant and timely availability of food, and the fact that
children do not receive food supplements in the evenings and weekends. The
evaluation points out that, if the project were to have achieved better
nutritional effects, the psychosocial effects would have been even greater.
Some of the evaluation's recommendations relevant to the proposed project
are that: (a) food availability needs to be constant and timely, educators
should be trained to identify malnourished children and supplement their food
intake, and malnutrition-related infections have to be diagnosed and treated;
and (b) it is insufficient solely to sign agreements with the health sector to
guarantee that a minimum package of services is provided--monitoring and
regular follow up is required at the local level to make those agreements
operational.
4.13 Early Child Development Experiences in Bolivia. In the past, most
early child development programs (with a varied mix of nutrition
supplementation, health and early education activities) have been carried out
through the MPSSP. The largest program, Asistencia Integral a MN'tos Pre-
Escolares de Zonas Deprimidas de Bolivia, was initiated in 1987 with support
from the WFP, the United Nations Fund for Children and Families
(UNICEF) and the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO). The
program's coverage objectives of 95,000 children were never attained; at the
end of 1992, less than 20 percent of the target population was covered.
4.14 The program consisted of three service delivery modalities. The
Chicolac Children's Centers began as a pilot project in 1985 and expanded
between 1987 and 1990 to cover approximately 71,000 children. It focused
on delivery of powdered milk and a piece of corn bread to groups of between
50 and 300 children. Parents took turns preparing and distributing food and
were to receive training. In 1990, a total of 707 centers were operating in
five peri-urban areas covering about 70,000 children. The program was
suspended following an evaluation that pointed to a general lack of nutritional
and developmental effects due to an insufficient production capacity and
spotty delivery of food, and grave deficiencies in the implementation of child
development and community participation activities.



- 15 -
4.15   The second modality is Integrated Child Care Centers--based on
previous experiments with Guarderfas Infannles Populares (1982-84), and
then Centros Infantiles Populares (1984-87). About 136 of these centers
with a total enrollment of 6,305 children are in operation in urban marginal
areas of five cities. Each center attends between 30 and 90 children who are
8 months to 6 years of age. The staff, which consists of one caretaker per
ten children, receives payment in food (donated by WFP). An evaluation of
the program has shown that family and community participation is relatively
good and, despite problems in attendance, that cognitive development and
nutritional status of children have improved.
4.16   The third modality of the program is the Home Child Care Centers,
initiated in 1989. This modality involves use of a private home in which 10
or more children are cared for at least five hours daily by two mothers. As
with the Integrated Child Care Centers, the caregivers are paid with donated
food. These centers are managed through NGOs. In 1992, 1,350 children
were being attended by about 230 caregivers in 82 child care homes
dispersed across five cities. A 1992 evaluation indicated that attendance was
high, but the hours were short, and the conditions and quality of care were
minimal.
5. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Concept
5.1   The proposed project supports the Government's Social Strategy
Statement and the 10-Year Action Plan for Children and Women. It seeks to
contribute toward poverty alleviation and human capital development
objectives by supporting the initiation of the Proyecto Integral de Desarrollo
Infantil (P11)I) in the 34 largest urban areas, and establishing a basis for
development of long-term policies and programs to provide early childhood
development services, including in rural areas. The specific objectives are
to: (a) improve children's readiness to succeed in school and beyond by
facilitating their physical, emotional, social and cognitive development;
(b) enhance the status of women by increasing their employment
opportunities, and expanding their knowledge of education, health and
nutrition; and (c) increase community and private sector participation in the
social development process. A secondary objective is to help the
Government strengthen its capacity to formulate and evaluate social policy.
5.2   To achieve these objectives, the proposed project reflects a three-
pronged strategy, inter alia: (a) support for development of national policies
in the areas of early child development, food security and nutrition, while
concurrently strengthening ONAMFA's management capacity to fulfil its
intended role to help guide social policy formulation; (b) assistance for the
delivery of integrated child development services in poor urban and peri-
urban areas via a non-formal, home-based day-care center modality; and (c)
establishment of an ongoing system for monitoring and evaluating project
implementation performance.



- 16 -
B. Scope and Target Population
5.3   The proposed project reflects the Government's goal to provide
services to the most disadvantaged subgroups. As IDA's poverty assessment
underscores, rural areas suffer the most extreme poverty. However, poverty
is a pervasive and expanding problem in marginal urban areas. In the inter-
censal period 1976 to 1992, the percentage of the population living in urban
areas increased from 42 to 58 percent. Rapid growth in major and secondary
cities has brought a series of new challenges for delivery of basic social
services. For instance, only 35 percent of urban dwellers have sanitation
services. It also is estimated that about 140,000 children are malnourished in
the country's four major cities alone. Logistic and service delivery problems
in the health, nutrition, education, and water and sanitation areas are
exacerbated by cultural challenges, as rural and ethnic populations attempt to
transfer traditional practices and beliefs to the city. For the most part, these
new urban settlers face special problems because of the general loss of
support systems, i.e., extended families, that helped care for their families in
rural areas.
5.4   Strong financial and operational justifications also exist for
concentrating proposed project activities, at least in this initial phase, in poor
urban and peri-urban areas. Rural population is highly dispersed, presenting
serious logistical problems for expanding access to basic social services,
including day-care, early education, and health and nutrition care. The cost
of delivering targeted, caregiver home-based child development services to
these populations on a massive scale would be extremely high and arguably
not culturally/technically appropriate. In contrast, the heavy concentration of
the urban poor provides important economies of scale to service delivery.
Nevertheless, the project will finance both an in depth analysis of the
constraints and potential faced by existing program initiatives to expand such
service coverage to rural areas; and based on this analysis, will identify and
pilot test promising modalities for delivering integrated child development
services in rural areas.
5.5   The proposed project specifically will target poor households in urban
and peri-urban areas with populations over 10,000. According to preliminary
results of the 1992 census, 34 cities, thus, would qualify for project
participation, representing in aggregate 3.3 million persons or about 48
percent of the country's total population (Annex 2, Table 1). The project
seeks, by the end of its sixth year, to have attained an installed capacity of
8,670 day-care centers to provide non-formal, home-based, integrated child
development services to 130,050 children aged 6 months to 6 years annually,
or about 16 percent of all children living in those urban areas. Cumulatively,
taking into account expected promotions of six year olds, 203,547 children
are expected to have benefitted over the project life (Annex 2, Table 2).
Anticipated coverage levels, disaggregated by city, represent about 5, 18 and
47 percent of children at risk at the end of the second, fourth, and sixth
years, respectively, of project implementation (Annex 2, Table 3).



- 17 -
5.6  In the selection of cities for phasing-in of the project, priority will be
assigned to those with the highest prevalence of malnutrition. The relatively
modest coverage targets over the first half of the project respond to the need
to ensure the high quality of project content, systematically and thoroughly
address evolving implementation issues, strengthen ONAMFA's institutional
capacity at the national and regional levels, and refine logistical mechanisms,
with special attention to the timely flow of critical program inputs, including
food. Experiences from similar child development projects indicate that to
ensure quality and the ultimate success of the project, expansion of coverage
should occur slowly in the start-up phase, and then accelerate once
administrative procedures have been tested and are fully operational.
5.7   Women also would be direct beneficiaries. The project would
contribute to enhancement of women's status by increasing their employment
opportunities through taining and participation of caregivers, and expanding
access to day-care for mothers, and by improving their knowledge of
education, health and nutrition. Further, by expanding substantially access to
day-care, the project would free women's time to seek work or to improve
their jobs. The overall health and nutritional status of women also is likely
to improve for an estimated 16,057 pregnant women (based on present
fertility rates) who either are caregivers or have children participating in day-
care centers, as project-secured access to preferential user fees increases
utilization of pre- and post-natal care, safe deliveries, and family planning
and health and nutrition education and services (Annex 2, Table 4). By
project completion, the proposed project would have trained and provided
employment to an estimated 20,808 caregivers (most of whom are expected
to be women) who would receive a monthly stipend equivalent to the
minimum salary (Annex 2, Table 2). Approximately 8,600 of these
caregivers also would benefit from other complementary project inputs,
including access to credit to upgrade their homes and, via direct beneficiary
contributions, assistance in the payment of basic utility bills, i.e., electricity
and water, to help offset the costs associated with using their homes for day-
care centers.
5.8   The planned inter-city distribution of day-care homes according to the
extent of malnutrition provides only one, albeit important measure to ensure
that project benefits are targeted to the most vulnerable groups.
Complementary targeting mechanisms include: (a) a geographical selection
of urban and peri-urban neighborhoods for program sites based on poverty
mapping; and (b) and child-specific selection criteria for such neighborhoods
(para. 5.18).
5.9   Given wide variations in poverty levels within urban centers, the
project would disaggregate cities by poverty zones. During the first year of
project execution, targeting would be based on SIF's "Urban Prioritization
1991" which defines four levels of poverty area based on service delivery
indicators (i.e., coverage levels of water supply, sanitation and electricity),
complemented with malnutrition prevalence data from the National System of
Epidemiological Surveillance (SVEN). To refine the targeting of priority
neighborhoods, utilizing 1992 census data, UDAPSO will develop updated



- 18 -
poverty maps of all urban areas, disaggregated by census zones (comprising
approximately 1,000-2,000 homes per zone). These poverty maps are
expected to be finalized by the end of 1993.
C. Detailed Project Description
5.10 The proposed project consists of the following components:
(a)   Sector Policy Development and Management Strengthening:
enhance the public sector's capacity to formulate and evaluate
social sector policy by supporting: (a) studies and technical
assistance to permit the broadening of policy foundations in the
areas of food security and nutrition, and refinement of
measures of child development, and extension of integrated
child development services to rural areas, including financing
for pilot projects; and (b) consolidation of ONAMFA's recent
restructuring efforts and its incorporation into the CSRP.
(b)   Service Delivery Support: support the delivery of integrated
child development services in poor urban and peri-urban areas
by implementing a non-formal early child development model
in 34 cities, providing care through some 8,600 home-based
day-care centers to about 15 children per center by two to
three caregivers (depending on the age-mix of beneficiaries)
selected from the local community. To this end, building on a
successful pilot project experience, the project would:
(a) further develop and strengthen the project's operational
structure; (b) refine mechanisms for targeting of beneficiaries
and selection of caregivers; (c) provide initial and in-service
training to caregivers to enable them to respond to early
education, nutrition, and health needs of the children;
(d) promote the formation and build the capacity of parents'
associations to assume select administrative functions within
the program; (e) on a mixed loan-grant basis, finance the
rehabilitation of the caregiver's home to serve as the actual
day-care site; (f) directly provide children with nutrition
supplementation and a basic package of integrated early
education services, and through cooperative agreements with
local health centers, ensure their access to key preventive and
curative health services; and (g) for pregnant women who
either are caregivers or have children participating in the
project, secure preferential fees for service, thus, increasing
their access to maternity care and family planning services,
and health and nutrition education and services.



- 19 -
(c)   Monitoring and Evaluation: support close project
performance monitoring and impact evaluation by developing
and implementing: (a) a management information system to
monitor timeliness in meeting programmed targets, and the
overall technical quality, administration and financing of
operations under the project; and (b) an impact evaluation
system, to include addition of special modules to the Integrated
Household Survey (EIH), and the conduct of special
longitudinal studies and sociological surveys.
Sector Policy Development and Management Strengthening Component
(proposed outlay, US$4.0 million equivalent, including contingencies)
5.11 Sector Policy Development. The project would assist the
Government in the formulation of sound policies and programs to enhance
the welfare of disadvantaged children, women and their families.
Specifically, the project would help broaden policy foundations in the areas
of food security and nutrition, extend early child development services to
rural areas, and refine measures to assess child development. To this effect,
the project would finance studies supported by about 25 person-months of
technical assistance, and select operating costs for conduct of pilot projects to
test alternative delivery models, which activities would be concentrated in the
first three years of the project. It is expected that, on the basis of the
studies' recommendations, the Government would: (a) establish a focal point
to coordinate food security and nutrition interventions, rationalize food aid
and better integrate agriculture production and social sector programs;
(b) develop and test a delivery model for the extension of early childhood
development activities to rural areas; and (c) refine child development
measures.
5.12 Management Strengthening. This sub-component focuses on two
discrete but related activities. First, it would further efforts to modernize
ONAMFA's administration and operations. Second, it would support
ONAMFA's incorporation into the CSRP.
5.13 Since JNSDS/ONAMFA initiated its restructuring in 1989, significant
strides have been made in improving the efficiency and transparency of its
operations. Building on experience to date, the project would seek to
consolidate the modernization process. The project would support the
strengthening of ONAMFA's administrative and financial operations in the
following areas: accounting, personnel management, budgeting,
asset/inventory control, warehouse management and procurement.



- 20 -
5.14 To this end, the project would finance:
(a)   technical assistance (36 person-months concentrated in the first
three years of the project) to support and oversee the
modernization process. The consultant would work directly
with ONAMFA's Executive Director and the chief
administrative and financial officers at the central and regional
levels;
(b)   the implementation of information systems, involving (i) the
installation of computer equipment in each regional office and
in the main administrative sections of the central office;
(ii) training in systems operation for an estimated 170 staff;
and (iii) technical assistance (4 person-months/year) to assist in
the implementation of these systems and to introduce design
modifications, as needed;
(c)   a mid-term technical and administrative evaluation of
ONAMFA to assess progress in its modernization process and
provide recommendations for further improvements (involving
about 15 person-months of technical assistance); and
(d)   a mid-term evaluation of progress made in implementation of
information systems that would include the design of a Five-
year Information Systems Plan to guarantee ONAMFA's
capacity to manage information beyond the life of the project
(involving about 3 person-months of technical assistance).
A matrix of objectives, outputs and timing of activities, and draft terms of
reference of technical assistance related to this sub-component are provided
in Annex 3.
5.15 Experience has shown that institutional strengthening measures which
do not address the issues of capacity and continuity of staff are not
sustainable. The success of ONAMFA's modernization process depends in
great part on the ability to build a stable and weil qualified team of
managerial and technical staff. To this end, ONAMFA has been accepted by
the Ministry of Finance into the CSRP. Based on the overall agreement
between the Ministry of Finance and ONAMFA signed in January 1993, the
project would support the inclusion into CSRP of 33 key managerial and
technical line positions. The incremental costs represented by the difference
between current salaries and CSRP salaries would be financed by the project
on a declining basis. Annex 4 provides an overview of the CSRP rationale,
criteria for agency participation and personnel selection procedures, and
implementation progress to date, as well as a list of positions to be financed
under the proposed project and their financing levels. Additionally, the
project would support the creation of a permanent division within ONAMPA
to implement the project, and to support early child development programs
(pam. 7.1). At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government



- 21 -
that: (a) ONAMFA would maintain management with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA; and (b) the annual audit report would include
a separate opinion as to whether CSRP criteria for selection of personnel
have been observed in the choice of staff for project-financed CSRP
positions.
Service Delivery Support Component (proposed outlay, US$133.6 million
equivalent, including contingencies)
5.16 Programmatic Model. The programmatic model to be adopted by
the project includes provision of integrated early child development services
(including education, nutrition and health) by two to three trained caregivers,
depending on the age-mix of the beneficiaries. Typically, two caregivers will
work in each day-care center. In centers with enrollment of three or more
children under two years of age, a third caregiver will be employed. No
center, however, will enroll more than five children under two. One of the
caregivers also is the owner of a home within the given urban or peri-urban
area in which the day-care center operates. Each such center will serve a
group of 15 children between 6 months and 6 years of age, selected
according to precise criteria (para. 5.18). The typical center will operate 8
hours per day, 5 days a week, and 12 months per year. The project offers
access to funds on a mixed grant-loan basis to the owners of the house for
basic rehabilitation to meet minimum acceptable standards of security, space
and services for day-care activities.
5.17 Stipends to Caregivers and Beneficiary Charges. Each caregiver
receives a monthly stipend, the costs of which would be financed under the
project. The stipend is roughly equivalent to the minimum salary (calculated
on the basis of US$4.5 equivalent per child per month). IDA would finance
such costs on a declining basis. Costs associated with the day-to-day
operation of the center would be covered by parents' payments equivalent to
US$2.25 per month per child, declining to US$2 and US$1.75 equivalent for
one and two additional siblings, respectively, attending the center. These
beneficiary/user fees are expected to generate about US$8.8 million over the
project life.
5.18 Targeting areas and potential beneficiaries. Subsequent to the
selection of participating cities and neighborhoods based on the criteria
defined above (paras. 5.5 and 5.9), a beneficiary selection process would be
carried out. In principle, all children 6 months to 6 years living in the
selected geographic area are eligible to participate in the project. However,
priority would be given to those children who are, in order of importance:
(a)   malnourished;
(b)   under the care of only one person (e.g., children of single
parents);
(c)   from families with parents employed and without child care
and, thus, child at risk of abandonment; and
(d)   from high parity families (i.e., with five or more children).



- 22 -
5.19 Selecting caregivers among community women. Concurrent with
the selection of children, ONAMFA staff will undertake project promotion
efforts in the local community, including identification and elaboration of a
list of potential caregivers. Priority would be given for pre-selection to those
local residents who:
(a)   are between 18 and 50 years of age;
(b)   have writing, reading and basic mathematical skills (though not
an exclusionary factor, as long as at least one of the two to
three caregivers per center meets these requirements);
(c)   have obtained an initial certificate of good health, including
results of three laboratory exams (blood test, urinalysis, and
bacilloscopy) and have annual checkups thereafter;
(d)   have demonstrated full-time availability to work under the
project;
(e)   are accepted by the community, as well as have obtained
written consent from their spouse to participate in the project;
and
(f)   have demonstrated a capacity to work well with children
(though not necessarily having children of his/her own)
5.20 Training. Training is crucial to the quality and success of the
project. Training activities would be directed at the following levels: (a)
technicians at the national and regional level; (b) caregivers; (c) parents'
associations; and (d) as local programs permit, health, nutrition and related
promotion activities, including encouragement of breastfeeding, for women
whose children attend the day-care centers. ONAMFA has prepared a
comprehensive training plan including an implementation timetable. Draft
terms of reference for technical assistance have been finalized.
(a)   Training of technicians would take place at the national level
through: (a) technical assistance (approximately 10 person-
months) to the team in the areas of health and nutrition, quality
control of food and menu preparation, food distribution and
use of the pre-school child development scale; and
(b) attendance at workshops, courses and seminars (at the
national and international level). In addition, the project
would finance selectively study tours to other ongoing
successful child development projects (e.g., visits to the
Hogares de Bienestar Infantil program in Colombia).
(b)   At the regional level, training of the technical teams would
involve: (a) an orientation session, involving a 2-day
presentation in La Paz of the nature and scope of the project,
its objectives and rationale and overall implementation
arrangements; (b) a follow-up session at the regional level (two
weeks after the initial orientation), where more specific project



- 23 -
contents are presented, including: mechanisms for the
selection of educators and children, implementation
arrangements, training of educators, accounting and
administrative procedures and monitoring and evaluation
requirements; and (c) a supervision/training visit from the
national team at least every two months.
(c)   Caregivers would receive an initial training session of 40 hours
divided into the following modules: health, nutrition, early
child education, fostering of community organization and
participation through parents' associations, promotion of the
role of women, and basic accounting and administration
procedures. Each initial training sessions would include a
maximum of 25 caregivers who would ultimately provide the
base from which staff for 10 day-care centers would be
selected, as well as potential back-ups should some of those
initially chosen not prove able to carry out the job.
(d)   Training of parents' associations would involve the
dissemination of information by the regional project teams on
the objectives of the project and would include modules in
accounting and administration procedures so that, where
feasible, such associations could assist ONAMFA in local day-
care centers' management functions.
5.21  Supervision. Prior to the initial training session for a potential group
of caregivers, the regional team would select and contract an external
supervisor (e.g., from a local NGO or university) who has completed, at a
minimum, two years of secondary education. The external supervisor would
provide support to the regional team during the sessions and would be
acquainted with specific details and requirements for project supervision.
5.22 A detailed supervision plan has been developed. During the
preparatory phase for opening a group of day-care centers, representing a
period of approximately two months, a local architect would follow up house
rehabilitation activities, while a regional technical officer would follow up the
initial training of caregivers. During the subsequent four-month start-up
phase, a member of the regional technical team would be assigned to each
group of 10 centers. Together with an external supervisor, he/she would
carry out regular bi-weekly training/supervision visits during the initial two
months. For the next two months, the external supervisor would visit each
center once a week. In the subsequent six-month follow-up phase, the
external supervisor would visit each center twice a month, and the regional
technician would visit each center at least once a month to oversee the work
of the supervisor. In the subsequent consolidation phase, the regional
technician would visit each center at least once every two months, and the
external supervisor (responsible for a maximum of 20 centers) would carry
out, at a minimum, one monthly visit to each center. To ensure adequate



- 24 -
oversight, a member of the regional technical team would be responsible for
no more than two external supervisors.
5.23 Home rehabilitation. The project would finance, on a mixed grant-
loan basis, the costs of rehabilitation of the homes of those caregivers whose
residences will serve as day-care sites. The objective of this sub-component
is to: (a) ensure that all day-care sites meet minimum acceptable standards
of security, space and services for conduct of their activities; (b) create a
financial incentive for caregivers to remain in the project once rehabilitation
is completed; (c) recover a portion of the private gains accruing to the
caregivers from home rehabilitation; and (d) help develop a loan repayment
discipline among participating caregivers.
5.24 This sub-component would operate as a revolving fund, with initial
capital and replenishment paid by the project, from which funds would be
drawn for individual rehabilitation activities, and into which repayments (i.e.,
partial cost recovery) would be made. The project would support this fund
by contributing to it on an annual basis based on estimates of that given
year's projected financing needs for rehabilitation, and the previous year's
cost recovery amount. The balance remaining in this fund at the end of the
project would revert to the Treasury. Contracting of construction materials
and necessary labor would be the responsibility of the individual caregiver.
ONAMFA's regional architects would be responsible for certifying that work
has been completed in accordance with original designs and specifications.
5.25 The amount of the home rehabilitation grant-loan available to a given
caregiver would be subject to a ceiling which is the equivalent of US$500.
Repayments would be made over a maximum period of 24 months, and
would be set by a scale according to the original rehabilitation grant-loan
amount (Annex 5). This scale is designed to control the caregiver's monthly
payments. A caregiver would repay approximately 50% of the original
rehabilitation grant-loan amount in a period ranging from 6 to 24 months.
Monthly payments are set so as to not exceed one-third of the caregiver's
monthly stipend, and will be deducted directly from his/her monthly stipend
to facilitate repayment.
5.26 The project would finance basic goods to equip each day-care center,
including: furniture, kitchen stoves and equipment, toys, educational
materials, refrigerators (one for each center in warm regions of Chaco and
Oriente) and a first-aid kit. The initial investment for these goods has been
estimated at US$2,100 per center. Pre-determined replacement rates and
costs would be used to replace used or damaged furniture, equipment and
materials.
5.27 Nutrition Services and Commodity Distribution. AU children
attending the day-care centers who are either not malnourished or mildly
malnourished would receive at least 70 percent of their daily age-adjusted
nutritional requirements. The average amount of calories and proteins
recommended to cover 70 percent of age-adjusted requirements are: children



- 25 -
6 months to 23 months of age: 931 calories and 19 grams of protein per day;
and children 2 to 6 years of age: 1200 calories and 22.4 grams of protein per
day. These supplements would be provided at the day-care center via three
meals daily: breakfast, lunch, and an afternoon snack, providing 30 percent,
50 percent, and 20 percent, respectively, of the daily ration. To respond to
distinct culturally-based dietary habits and, relatedly, the availability of fresh
foods, seasonal and regional diets will be elaborated by the regional project
team with technical assistance to be financed under the project. Nutritional
value and costs of menus across regions will be standardized. Twenty-four
hour recall studies of household food consumption and parents' nutrition
education activities would be carried out to ensure that all participating
children receive a complete diet and, hence, that appropriate levels of food
intake occur within the home in the evenings and during weekends, so as to
not compromise project beneficiaries' nutritional status.
5.28 Children with moderate and severe malnutrition will receive at the
day-care center 100 percent of daily age-adjusted nutritional requirements via
six meals per day. The caregiver, with support from ONAMFA's regional
nutritionist, would be responsible for the special treatment of these children.
The caretaker would be trained to supervise food intake by malnourished
children, to ensure each is weighed by the local health referral center on a
weekly basis to monitor his/her nutritional status progress, and to carry out
home visits to assess environmental or socioeconomic conditions which may
be underlying causes of the malnutrition. Children with mild malnutrition
would also be monitored (i.e., recordation of their weight-for-age) by the
referral health center on a weekly basis, but would only be provided 100
percent of daily caloric and protein requirements at the day-care center if
they experienced no weight gain between monitoring visits.
5.29 In addition to confirming the malnutrition diagnosis and monitoring
the child's progress in follow-up visits, the physician at the referral health
center would carry out a complete check-up (including basic laboratory tests)
of all malnourished children to identify any morbidity associated with their
malnutrition. For those parents in extreme poverty who, thus, are unable to
afford the costs of these laboratory exams and/or recommended treatment for
malnutrition-associated morbidity in their children, financial assistance would
be made available to them, via a project-financed health fund. However,
financing from this fund would be limited to a monthly ceiling of US$5.00
equivalent per functioning day-care center. It is recognized that due to
budgetary constraints, the proposed project can only provide seed money for
this fund. To complement project-financed support to this health fund, the
respective regional team will seek to mobilize additional resources from local
parents' associations and/or patrons of the project (e.g., church groups,
NGOs). The operation of the fund would be evaluated on a monthly basis
via data from the project's management information system to ensure the
equitable distribution of project-provided funds between regions.



- 26 -
5.30 Food (not IDA financed) would be made available to the project
through two modalities: (a) distributed dry food commodities from food aid
support, provided either in food, or via monetization, by local purchase; and
(b) local purchase of perishable commodities. The first modality involves a
quarterly assessment of food requirements by ONAMFA's regional offices,
requests to donor agencies to guarantee availability of food for the following
quarter, and the collection of food from warehouses by ONAMFA's regional
office, NGOs, or where existent, local parents' associations. The second
modality involves the direct transfer of funds to ONAMFA's regional office,
NGOs providing support to ONAMFA in the administration of select day-care
centers, or parents' associations, where existent, which would be responsible for
purchase and overseeing distribution of fresh food. In this latter case, the
responsible party would enter into six-month contracts with local suppliers, to be
awarded on a competitive basis; the selected supplier would distribute such fresh
food weekly to each day-care center.
5.31 Health Services. An agreement has been signed between ONAMFA and
MPSSP specifying MPSSP's responsibilities in provision of a minimum
acceptable package of services to project beneficiaries. These services will not
be financed by IDA but rather via preferential user fees to be available to
beneficiaries to obtain specific diagnostic, preventive and curative services. The
national agreement would be supplemented by local agreements with each health
referral center defining more detailed operational and logistical arrangements for
the delivery of health and related services in support of project objectives.
These local agreements should not be limited to the public sector and could
involve private providers of health care services. The project also would finance
training activities with the personnel of referral health centers to guarantee that
agreed administrative procedures are followed, and that a minimum package of
quality health and nutrition services is provided to project beneficiaries.
5.32 The basic package of preventive services includes, for all children
enrolled in day-care centers, completion of their full immunization regimen
within six months of their entry into the project. In addition, the following
services would be provided to specific subgroups:
(a)   monthly check-ups for normal and mildly malnourished children,
to include: nutrition assessment (including measurement and
recordation of weight-for-age); and detection of diarrheal and
respiratory diseases and of other common illnesses.
(b)   for all children with mild malnutrition who have not gained weight
between control visits, and all children with moderate and severe
malnutrition, weekly nutrition surveillance; medical check-ups for
morbidity diagnosis (including laboratory tests); and treatment via
bi-monthly medical visits with the doctor at the referral health
center.



- 27 -
(c)   for pregnant women, including mothers of participating children
and caregivers (for a preferential fee of US$2.5 equivalent), four
prenatal control visits, including evaluation of obstetric risk,
tetanus vaccine and iron supplementation; provision of a "clean
packet" for home-based delivery, together with promotion of the
use of hospital-based delivery services' (at a preferential fee of
US$15-20); and at least one postnatal control visit, including
breastfeeding promotion and family planning education.
5.33 The health referral system needs to be well defined and known by the
caregivers at each day-care center to ensure that health centers provide the
agreed minimum acceptable package of services to project beneficiaries. At
negotiations, assurances were secured from the Government that, prior to
opening any given group of day-care centers, an agreement would be
finalized between ONAMFA and the respective public or private referral
health center to ensure availability to project beneficiaries of a minimum
acceptable package of health and nutrition services.
5.34 While parents of project participants are to continue to assume overall
responsibility for referral and payment for curative services for their
children, the caregiver would: (a) accept a sick child in the center in cases
where an authorized physician has evaluated the child and allowed its
attendance with clear directions for treatment; (b) take care of a child that
has become sick while attending the center until the parents arrive; and (c) be
responsible for referring the child to a health facility in emergency cases.
For mild conditions, where beneficiary-provided resource pools exist, the
caregiver would assume responsibility for payment of such treatment for
children under his/her care.
5.35 Early Education. The project would support early education
activities to promote the psychosocial development of participating children
through the stimulation of their cognitive, social, emotional, motor and
communication capacities. Education activities would be based on a
diagnosis of the prevailing child rearing practices in the community. This
diagnosis would serve to establish the abilities and needs of caregivers and
help refine the plan of activities required for each day-care center and
participating child. Building on this initial diagnosis, a program of education
activities would be defined centered on play (free and directed play, and
"working corners"). Each center would be equipped with play and
educational equipment and materials, based on a standard list developed by
ONAMFA's technical team.
1 Notably, hospital-based deliveries presently represent only about 40 percent of all annual
births. Through project-supported education, and improved utilization of the health system,
it is expected that this proportion will increase among women with children in the day-ca
centers, and caregivers.



- 28 -
5.36 To assess the individual development of each child, a "Child
Development Chart' would be applied by the caregivers. This chart has been
developed and successfully tested and applied by a Bolivian NGO.
Additionally, in order to monitor and evaluate the project's impact on child
development, a Pre-School Development Scale would be administered by the
technical supervisors within the first three months of the child's enrollment in
the center, and thereafter: (a) every three months for children under one year
of age; and (b) every six months for children in the 1 to 6 year age group.
The pre-school development scale adopted would be that developed for a
similar program in Colombia, and successfully used in this project's pilot
phase. Project financing would be provided within the sector policy sub-
component to further evaluate this development scale and refine it, as
needed.
Monitoring and Evaluation Component (proposed outlay, US$2.6 million
equivalent, including contingencies)
5.37 The proposed project would finance the implementation of a
monitoring and evaluation component consisting of a management
information system (Sistema de Informaci6n Gerencial--SIG) and an impact
evaluation system. The management information system would provide
project management with a continuous flow of key indicators to measure
project implementation performance, as measured by: (a) the actual pace at
which key inputs are put in place vis-a-vis programmed coverage targets;
(b) the extent of project compliance with established technical and operational
norms and standards, essential to ensure constant delivery of high quality
services to beneficiaries; and (c) overall trends which reveal whether the
project is attaining desired intermediate objectives, without which the
intended project impact is not likely to be achieved.
5.38 The impact evaluation system would document the effects of the
project in three key areas: (a) how well it targets children, women and
families at highest risk; (b) how participation affects the development and
well-being of children, women and communities; and (c) the extent to which
participation in this pre-school project improves the subsequent progress and
performance of children in primary school. Concurrently, the impact
evaluation will seek to ascertain whether and how the age of entry in day-
care, length of participation, and/or differences in the relative efficiency and
quality of day-care provided between centers, result in varying effects on
participating children and their families; and whether synergistic effects exist
between expected improvements in the status of women and communities as
a result of the project, and the overall well-being of the children. A key
measure of impact would be comparison, over time, of the developmental
status of children enrolling in project-supported day-care centers from
January-June 1994 with two matched control groups to be drawn from the
Integrated Household Survey (EIH). Development progress of these three
groups of children would be monitored via semi-annual EIH surveys, to



- 29 -
include additional modules on health and nutritional status, and child
development. In both the management information and impact evaluation
systems, both quantitative and qualitative measures would be used. Annex 6
contains detailed information on the variables, indicators, and instruments to
be used for data collection, the party responsible for data registration, and
the frequency with which the indicators will be analyzed for the SIG; and the
variables and methodological framework to be used for the impact evaluation.
The project would finance the costs associated with the contracting of
consultants from the National Institute of Statistics (INE) and other agencies
selected to carry out the additional modules of the EIH, and the processing
and analysis of project performance monitoring and evaluation data. Terms
of reference for technical assistance needs have been finalized. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that: (a) the agreed
evaluation and monitoring systems would be under implementation no later
than March 31, 1994; and (b) annual reports on progress and results of the
monitoring and evaluation component would be prepared by ONAMFA and
submitted for IDA review.
5.39 Monitoring. The management information system would provide
indicators to monitor project implementation performance. The majority of
these indicators would be generated for ONAMFA's SIG from regular
reports of caregivers, project supervisors, and the Regional Technical Teams.
Indicators for performance monitoring include:
(a)   existing levels of key project inputs, i.e., net number of
functioning day-care centers, staff on regional technical teams,
supervisors, caregivers, and children enrolled, as well as the
extent and causes of turnover in such inputs, compared to
programmed project coverage targets;
(b)   measures of the extent of compliance with technical and
operational norms of the project, and the overall soundness of
project administration and financing, including indicators on
the adequacy of: (i) targeting and selection of communities,
children and caregivers participating in the project;
(ii) community promotion activities; (iii) initial training of
potential caregivers; (iv) functioning of the day-care centers,
including actual delivery of programmed health, nutrition and
education interventions; (v) payment of user charges;
(vi) administration of the project with regard to the operation
and financial status of the Rehabilitation and Health Funds, and
acquisition of requisite food, materiel and equipment for the
day-care centers; (vii) functioning of parents' associations;
(viii) inter-institutional coordination with NGOs, MPSSP, and
the Ministry of Education and Culture; and (ix) actually
received versus committed resources from food donor agencies
and other project financiers; and



- 30 -
(c)   trends in attaining coverage of key interventions essential to
achieve intended project impact, with a view toward ensuring
that the project, over time, is resulting in: (i) an increase in the
proportion of participating children with full immunization
coverage within six months of enrolling, and who receive
regular health care and nutrition surveillance; (ii) a reduction
in the prevalence of child malnutrition, particularly of
moderate and severe degree; (iii) a diminution in the
proportion of children who score at the lower end of the Pre-
school Development Scale; (iv) a decrease in the extent of non-
attendance at day-care centers due to illness; (v) an increase in
the proportion of project beneficiaries entering primary school
upon reaching 6 years of age; and (vi) an augment in pregnant
women's utilization of pre- and post-natal care and, relatedly,
safe deliveries, and health and nutrition education and services.
5.40 In addition to regular monitoring activities, the project would finance
special evaluations to better document the quality of the nutrition, health and
child development interventions being delivered via the project. These
evaluations include: child growth and monitoring activities, an evaluation of
the use of the child development chart, child development activities, the
amount and quality of food intake by children, and the treatment of children
with nutritional problems.
5.41 Impact Evaluation. The project would finance the costs of ongoing
evaluation of the impact of the project on the status of participating children,
women and families. An ancillary objective is to evaluate changes in the
quantity and quality of community development activities in participating
neighborhoods. The key tool for evaluating impact would be analysis of data
to be generated from periodic application of the EIH (a Living Standards
Measurement/LSMS-type survey) to project beneficiaries and two carefully
matched control groups. Commencing in January 1994, and semi-annually
thereafter, the EIH's household interview-based survey, including new
modules to be developed specifically under this proposed project to measure
children's health, nutritional and child development status, would be applied
to all families with children who enroll in project-supported day-care centers
as well as the two matched control groups.
5.42 One control group would be selected from the overall EIH sample of
households that have children under six years of age, and have comparable
socioeconomic characteristics to families who are project participants.
Another control group would be drawn from households located in
neighborhoods where the project has been implemented but who have not
enrolled their children in the day-care centers. A sub-sample of children
identified in each of the three groups would be followed-up on a quarterly
basis to document changes in the respective children's health and nutritional
status and development.



- 31 -
5.43 To confirm results from the quarterly assessments of a sub-sample of
children in the three control groups (and in view of anticipated high mobility
of families within the control groups and, hence, difficulties in locating them
over time), a follow-up EIH would be conducted in 1996 on the same
households included in the initial 1994 survey. It is expected that the EIH-
based impact evaluation system would continue to be carried out during the
last three years of the project. The system, however, would be thoroughly
reassessed at the time of the project's Mid-term Review, i.e., no later than
November 30, 1996, to permit introduction of changes, as deemed desirable,
to improve its methodological approach and statistical soundness.
5.44 In addition to the EIH-based impact evaluation system, the project
would finance four special studies to assess: (a) the impact of the project on
women, including caregivers; (b) the impact of the project on community
development; (c) the cost-effectiveness of the project; and (d) the project
impact on schooling and school performance. These studies would use a
combination of methods including in-depth interviews, focus group
discussions, analysis of data from the project SIG, and review of minutes
from meetings of community groups. Draft terms of reference for these
special studies have been finalized.
5.45 Project Preparation Facility (PPF). An advance of US$750,000 was
approved by IDA on August 22, 1992 to finance project preparation activities
and the implementation of pilot day-care centers in the cities of La Paz/El
Alto, Tarija and Santa Cruz to test different delivery modalities and
operational arrangements. The Government has submitted to IDA an
evaluation of the pilot phase, including a detailed analysis of findings and
recommendations for modifications to the program that have been
incorporated into the final project design.
6. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Costs
6.1 The total project cost is estimated at US$140.2 million equivalent,
including taxes (US$5.7 million equivalent) and physical and price
contingencies with a foreign exchange component of about US$16.9 million,
or about 12 percent of total project cost. Project costs by component are
summarized in Table 6.1. Detailed cost tables are provided in Annex 7.



- 32 -
6.2 Contingency Allowances. Total contingencies of US$8.3 million
equivalent represent 6.3 percent of base costs and include physical
contingencies of US$200,000 equivalent for equipment, furniture, vehicles
and educational materials. Price contingencies (US$8.1 million equivalent),
representing 6.2 percent of base costs assume: (a) a projected local inflation
rate of 6.46 percent for 1994, 5.5 percent for 1995, 5.18 percent for 1996
and 1997, 5.11 percent for 1988, and 5.03 for 1999; and (b) a projected
price increase for foreign costs estimated in US dollars at 3.1 percent. Cost
calculations also assume a nominal exchange rate of 4.290 for 1994, 4.412
for 1995, 4.256 for 1996, 4.639 for 1997, 4.756 for 1998 and 4.875 for
1999.
Table 6.1: Project Cost Summary By Component
Local    Foreign   Total   % Foreign   % Total
Exchange     Base
Costs
---------US$ million--------
A. Sector Polic Devpt.          3.2       0.7    3.9         18.5       3.0
Management Strengthening
B. Service Delivery Support   112.2      13.4  125.6         10.7     95.3
C. Monitoring & Evaluation      1.4       0.9    2.3         39.6       1.7
Total Baseline Costs          116.4      15.0  131.3         11.4    100.0
Physical Contingencies        0.1       0.1    0.2        45.2       0.1
Price Contingencies           6.4       1.7    8.1        21.3       6.2
Total Project Costs           123.3      16.9  140.2         12.3    106.3
B. Recurrent Costs and Project Sustainability
6.3   Project incremental recurrent costs are generated by expenditures for
administrative support, supervision and training activities, caregivers'
stipends, equipment replacement, expenditures associated with the health
fund, salary supplements for civil service positions, compensation of
incremental personnel directly involved in project implementation at the
national and regional level, and food commodities. Food-related costs
totalling about US$52.0 million (representing 37 and 58 percent of total and
recurrent costs, respectively) although recurrent, carry little financial burden
for the government since most food needs are expected to be secured through
current and anticipated food aid programs.



- 33 -
6.4  Incremental recurrent costs generated by the project at the end of year
six would amount to US$33.2 million, distributed as follows: (a) food, 58
percent; (b) caregivers' stipends, 20 percent; (c) minor expenses associated
with the operation of centers, 10 percent (financed by the beneficiaries);
(d) administrative costs, 7 percent; (e) external supervision, 3 percent;
(f) health fund, 1 percent; and (g) civil service-related expenditures, 1
percent.
6.5    The proposed project enjoys broad political support. Project
sustainability rests principally on the Government's ability to find "fiscal
space" for the proposed project's incremental recurrent costs. During the
first three years of implementation (1994-96), given the conservative scale of
proposed project operations, the net fiscal impact will not be significant.
However, in the latter years (1997-99), in which coverage is programmed to
increase rapidly, the incremental recurrent costs rise significantly,
representing at the end of the project and annually thereafter US$33.2 million
equivalent (about 1.5 percent of total projected public current expenditures,
and about 0.5 percent of expected GDP). The actual fiscal burden should not
be excessive, however, since the majority (i.e., 58 percent) of these recurrent
costs are attributable to the project's food requirements, virtually all of which
are expected to be met from external sources via food aid. The priority
assigned by Government to the project is reflected in a Government
agreement to allocate annually minimum amounts of domestic and external
resources to the project (para. 6.6). This commitment is reinforced by the
Government's Supreme Decree 23415 of March 5, 1993, already mandating
the allocation of a significant share (i.e., US$48.2 million equivalent) of the
food aid required by the proposed project (Annex 8).
C. Financing Plan
6.6   The proposed loan of US$50.7 million equivalent would finance 36
percent of the total project cost. It would cover US$16.6 million equivalent
or 96 percent of foreign exchange expenditures, and about US$34.1 million
equivalent or 30 percent of the estimated local costs. The Government would
finance US$21.0 million equivalent or about 15 percent of total costs. The
World Food Programme (WFP) and the EC would finance about US$11.93
and US$1.86 million equivalent, respectively, in food donations. UNICEF
would finance US$1.28 million equivalent, principally for training activities.
Beneficiary contributions would represent US$8.8 million. USAID and the
Social Investment Fund contributed, in aggregate, about US$0.6 million for
project preparation activities and implementation of the pilot phase. A
financing gap of about US$44.1 million to cover food requirements in the
second half of the project is expected to be financed by food aid from
bilateral agencies. During the appraisal mission, interest in financing food
was expressed by USAID and Canada. Table 6.2 summarizes the project's
financing plan. Annex 7 includes the detailed financing plan per project



- 34 -
year. The Government has submitted to IDA projections of social sector
investments for the 1994-99 period delineating all social sector projects to be
financed both from domestic and external sources. These projections suggest
sufficient "fiscal space' for the proposed project. At negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the Government would allocate in its annual budget, for
the years 1994 through 1999, and each year thereafter, the following
minimum amounts (representing its direct budgetary contribution and the
financing to be sought from donors) for the financing of project expenditures:
(a) US$1.039 million for CY94; (b) US$2.287 million for CY95;
(c) US$5.38 million for CY96; (d) US$10.58 million for CY97;
(e) US$17.78 million for CY98; (f) US$27.73 million for CY99; and (g)
US$33.2 million for each year thereafter. A condition of credit effectiveness
would be that ONAMFA has received from the Treasury an amount
equivalent to not less than US$340,000 for purposes of implementing the
project during CY93.
Table 6.2: Fmancing Plan
US$(million)        %
Government              21.0         15
]DA                     50.7         36
World Food Programme    11.9          9
European Community       1.8          1
UNICEF                   1.3          1
Beneficiaries            8.8          6
USAID/SIF                0.6          1
Other Cofinancing       44.1         31
TOTAL                  140.2        100
7. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management and Coordination
7.1   ONAMFA would be responsible for the overall implementation of the
project. Since the project represents a new programmatic initiative, the
technical and administrative structures necessary to implement the project
have been added to the organization at the central and regional levels as a
permanent program structure (i.e., Proyecto Integral de Desarrollo Irfandl-
PIDI or Integrated Child Development Project). An organizational chart of
the central and regional program offices and their integration within
ONAMFA's structure is presented in Annex 9. At the national level, the
program is headed by a national coordinator and complemented by seven
technical staff in the areas of health and nutrition, education, project



- 35 -
implementation, community outreach, administration, management
information systems, and internal auditing.
7.2   ONAMFA would establish project teams in all eight of its regional
offices. The teams would be fully integrated into ONAMFA's regional
structure, with supervision by the regional Executive Director and support
from the regional administrative systems. The regional teams include a
regional coordinator, an education specialist, a health and nutrition specialist,
a social worker, a management information systems operator, a procurement
officer, an accountant and a secretary. Technical officers would be added to
the regional teams for promotion and supervision of centers based on an
estimated ratio of one technical officer per forty centers. Additional
administrative support would be hired as necessary as the program expands.
Architectural services would be contracted by the regional offices for the
rehabilitation of caregivers' homes to be used as day-care sites, based on the
volume of work. In addition, an accountant would be placed in those
ONAMFA sub-regional offices where a NGO is assisting ONAMFA in the
administration of a group of centers.
7.3   The project would finance the establishment and operation of the PIDI
central and regional offices, including: (a) equipment, (i.e., computers,
other office equipment and furniture); (b) vehicles (three four-wheel drive for
the central level, one pick-up truck for each regional office, and one four-
wheel drive for each five regional-level technicians); (c) salaries for
incremental positions, and other operating expenses, on a declining basis;
(d) training activities; and (e) technical assistance. The project would finance
other operating expenditures, including materiel, transportation, maintenance
and communication.
7.4   To support project implementation, the project would finance
technical assistance in the areas of: (a) management information systems,
(b) administrative and financial systems, and (c) adjustments necessary for
the consolidation and expansion of the PIDI program as it scales up. Draft
terms of reference for technical assistance have been finalized. In addition,
technical assistance would finance the services of an external procurement
agent (see para. 7.10) and an external auditor (see para. 7.20).
7.5   ONAMFA has prepared two basic documents to guide project
implementation: an Administrative Manual (Manual Administradvo, June 1,
1993), and an Operations Manual (Manual de Normas y Procedimientos,
June 1, 1993). The Administrative Manual includes: (a) organizational
arrangements; (b) terms of reference for all project staff; (c) disbursement
and procurement arrangements; and (d) internal and external audit TOR and
scope. The Operations Manual incorporates all the technical contents of the
project's components and sub-components, and financial and administrative
implementation arrangements. Final versions of the manuals have been
completed by Government and reviewed and approved by IDA.



- 36 -
B. Institutional Arrangements
7.6   NGO Involvement. To ensure that coverage and quality objectives
are reached and that the project is sustainable, ONAMFA would require
broad involvement of and support from national and international NGOs with
experience in the implementation of women and children projects. While
coverage of most NGOs is limited and their institutional and operational
capacity vary substantially, their knowledge of local conditions and
community involvement is generally strong. ONAMFA has defined three
broad modalities for NGO involvement: (a) support in the implementation of
all project components in a given area; (b) support in the execution of
specific project components nationwide (e.g., it is expected that an NGO
would be involved in the nationwide training of the national and regional
PIDI teams in women instruction methodologies); and (c) staffing for external
supervision activities.
7.7   MPSSP Involvement. The proposed project is also encouraging
interinstitutional arrangements with MPSSP and private providers of health
services to ensure that project beneficiaries have access to a minimum
package of quality preventive, diagnostic and curative health services (para.
5.32).
C. Implementation Schedule
7.8   The project is planned to be implemented over a six-year period (i.e.,
the end of 1993 through the middle of 1999). Implementation of the Service
Delivery Support component would be slow during the first half of the
program and, as coverage expansion intensifies at the beginning of the fourth
year, would rapidly accelerate in the second half of the project. The small
coverage in the first half responds to a need to guarantee quality of contents,
address implementation issues gradually, strengthen institutional capacity, and
refine logistical mechanisms. Similar experiences from other child
development projects demonstrate that, in order to ensure quality and not
overextend institutional capacity, coverage expansion needs to be slowly
phased-in during the start-up phase and accelerate once administrative
procedures are tested and fully operational.
7.9   Studies to be carried out under the project's Sector Policy
Development and Management Strengthening, and Monitoring and Evaluation
components will be completed in accordance with the timetable outlined in
Annex 10. During negotiations, assurances were secured that the
Government would submit for IDA review the results of, and
recommendations deriving from, studies to be carried out under the Sector
Policy Development and Management Strengthening Component and the



- 37 -
Monitoring and Evaluation Component, in accordance with an agreed
timetable.
D. Procurement
7.10 Arrangements for procurement and limits by type are summarized in
Table 7.1. Annex 11 shows a procurement timetable (Project Implementation
Schedule). Bolivia's procurement procedures require that, for contracts
above Bs. 200,000 equivalent, public institutions use international
procurement agents. The procurement of goods utilizing Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) and International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures
would be carried out through one of these agents. The credit would finance
the fee of the procurement agent to be retained using terms of reference and
following procedures satisfactory to IDA. The Government has prepared a
draft contract for the procurement agent, specifying timing requirements for
procurement actions. The use of Bank Group standard bidding documents
would be mandatory for the procurement of goods under ICB. Standard
bidding documents already approved by IDA for the Social Investment Fund
would be used for the procurement of goods under LCB. Bolivian
manufacturers may be granted a margin of preference for bid evaluation
purposes under ICB, in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
Goods
7.11  Contracts for vehicles, and office technology equipment are expected
to total about US$1.7 million equivalent, would be combined in packages
valued at not less than US$100,00 equivalent and would be awarded on the
basis of ICB procedures.
7.12 Contracts for furniture and equipment for the home-based centers and
ONAMFA's national and regional offices are expected to total about
US$32.3 million equivalent. To the extent possible, contracts for goods
(principally office equipment, furniture and kitchen stoves) would be
combined in packages of US$100,000 equivalent or more, and contracts
would be awarded on the basis of ICB. LCB would apply for contracts
between US$25,000 and US$100,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount
of US$10 million equivalent. Local shopping procedures could be used for
contracts of US$25,000 equivalent or less up to an aggregate amount of
US$4.5 million equivalent. Direct contracting procedures could be permitted
for contracts of US$5,000 equivalent or less up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.0 million equivalent for the purchase of small quantities of locally
produced materials, and where shopping procedures are not practical.



- 38 -
Table 7.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
PROJECT ELEMENT                  ICB    | LCB  I Other        NBF.  Total Costs
1. Rehabilitation Fund                                 2.86                 2.86
(2.86)               (2.86)
2. Goods
2.1 Vehicles & Office Technology  1.74                                    1.74
(1.63)                                 (1.63)
2.2 Furniture and Equipment       16.82    10.00    5.50 a/              32.32
(13.50)   (8.00)   (4.36)              (25.86)
2.3 Food Commodities                                            51.44    51.44
(0.00)   (0.00)
3. Consultancies b/
3.1 Studies & Technical Assistance                  4.56                  4.56
(3.65)               (3.65)
3.2 External Supervision                            2.79                  2.79
(0.94)               (0.94)
4. Salaries & Operating Expenditures
4.1 Civil Service Support                           2.31                  2.31
(1.10)               (1.10)
4.2 Salaries                                        6.58                  6.58
(2.37)               (2.37)
4.3 Administrative Costs                            3.42                  3.42
(1.45)               (1.45)
4.4 Stipends to the Caregivers                      17.36                17.36
(7.32)               (7.32)
4.5 Operating Costs of Centers                                  8.88      8.88
(0.00)   (0.00)
4.6 Health Fund                                     1.29                  1.29
(0.67)               (0.67)
4.7 Training                                        2.66                  2.66
(2.10)               (2.10)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 PPF Refinancing                                 2.19                 2.19
(0.75)               (0.75)
TOTAL COSTS                         18.56    10.00    51.52       60.12    140.20
(15.13)   (8.00)   (27.57)    (0.00)   (50.70)
Note: Numbers in parenthlesis reflect IDA financing.
a/   For goods: local shopping, of which direct contracting may be allowed up to an aggregate
of US$1.0 million equivalent.
b/   In accordance with Bank Group guidelines for the use of consultants.



- 39 -
Consultants
7.13  Consultants required for the project would be hired in accordance with
IDA's guidelines for the use of consultants. Except as IDA shall otherwise
agree, time-based consultants should be employed under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultant services issued by the World Bank
Group.
IDA's Review
7.14 Prior review by IDA in accordance with IDA guidelines would be
carried out for all contracts for goods to be procured under ICB, and for
contracts for goods valued at US$75,000 equivalent and above under LCB.
It is estimated that during the life of the project, about 80 contracts and
award recommendations, representing about 52 percent of the total value of
contracts, would require prior review by IDA. IDA would review ex-post,
on a selected basis, contracts and bid evaluations for goods purchased under
local shopping procedures and would carry out a selective review of a
representative sample of contracts under direct contracting for goods. These
review arrangements are considered appropriate in view of the nature of the
goods to be procured, and the required use of standard bidding documents.
7.15 At negotiations, assurances were secured from Government that
ONAMFA, through the procurement agent, would submit to IDA for prior
review, bidding documents and award recommendations for all contracts for
goods to be procured under ICB, and for contracts for goods valued at
US$75,000 equivalent and above to be procured under LCB.
E. Disbursements and Accounts
7.16 The proposed credit would be disbursed over a six-year period,
typical for other IDA projects in the social sectors. The project completion
date would be June 30, 1999 and the project closing date would be
December 31, 1999. Annex 12, Table 1 contains the estimated disbursement
forecast.
7.17 Annex 12, Table 2 contains the disbursement allocations.
Disbursements would be made against the following categories of
expenditures: (a) 100 percent of expenditures for the home rehabilitation
fund; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for goods; (c) 100 percent of expenditures for studies, technical
assistance and training; (d) for recurrent expenditures associated with project
implementation, according to decreasing percentages as defined in Annex 12,
Table 2. Credit funds would not pay for food rations. Withdrawal
applications for goods with a contract value of US$75,000 equivalent or more
would be supported by full documentation. Contracts of less than US$75,000



- 40 -
equivalent, disbursements against expenditures not undertaken by contract,
and disbursements made under the home rehabilitation subcomponent, would
be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting
documentation for these expenditures would be retained by ONAMFA and
made available for periodic review by IDA staff. For home rehabilitation,
this would include approved rehabilitation plans and detailed budget,
certification of the completion of work, and a legalized copy of the contracts
between ONAMFA and the caregivers.
7.18 Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the
Government would establish, maintain and operate, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA, a Special Account in US dollars at the Central
Bank. IDA would make an initial deposit of US$2.5 million, equivalent to
the average four-month project financing requirement.
F. Financial Management, Accounting and Audits
7.19 A financial management evaluation of JNSDS/ONAMFA was carried
out by IDA prior to the pre-appraisal mission. The evaluation included
documentation and orientation in all aspects of accounting and financial
systems, organizational structure, internal controls and audit. The evaluation
concluded that from a general management, accounting and auditing
perspective, the proposed project was "clean".
7.20 ONAMFA's accounts would be available for inspection by IDA.
Annually audited accounts would be submitted to IDA no later than six
months following the end of ONAMFA's fiscal year. The annual audit
reports would include: (a) an audit of ONAMFA covering the financial
position and results of operations focusing on its soundness and financial
managerial capability under a "going concern" perspective; the scope of the
audit is an examination of the external auditor of the basic financial
statements and related supplementary financial information; (b) an audit of
the project, including (i) a statement of sources and applications of funds;
(ii) a statement of assets and liabilities; and (iii) supplementary financial
information containing a matrix of project accumulated performance, a
summary of significant bids processed and awarded, a list of main
contractors and contracts, and a status of the financial execution of technical
assistance; (c) an auditor's opinion on the eligibility of expenses submitted
through Statement of Expenditures-SOE; (d) compliance opinions of the
financial-managerial covenants in the Credit and of the most significant laws
and regulations affecting ONAMFA's activities or the execution of the
project; (e) an audit of the special account; (f) a management letter; and (g) a
disclosure of the audit procedures utilized. The audit would be performed by
a private firm of independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Terms of
reference were reviewed and approved during IDA's financial management
evaluation. At negotiations, assurances were secured from Government that
the annually audited project accounts, in accordance with IDA guidelines,



- 41 -
would be submitted to IDA no later than six months following the end of the
Government's fiscal year.
G. Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision
7.21 The proposed project incorporates a comprehensive monitoring and
evaluation component (paras. 5.37 and 5.38). Overall monitoring and
evaluation of the project would be ONAMFA's responsibility. ONAMFA
would contract institutions such as the National Institute of Statistics (INE) to
collect EIH data and other public and/or private entities for the analysis of
impact evaluation data. Specific tasks of ONAMFA include: (a) preparing
quarterly reports on implementation progress; (b) preparing an annual
implementation progress report, work plan for the upcoming year, and
financial plan for the successive three years; and (c) preparing a Project
Completion Report (PCR) that would be submitted to IDA no later than six
months after the closing date of the Credit. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that ONAMFA would submit to IDA quarterly progress reports on
March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 each year, and that the
quarterly report of September 30 each year shall include: (a) an assessment
of overall implementation progress over the past year, including
implementation indicators; (b) a detailed work plan for the forthcoming year;
and (c) an updated financial plan for the successive three years of project
implementation.
7.22 The Government and IDA would hold Annual Reviews no later than
November 30 each year. In addition, the Government and IDA would hold a
Mid-Term Review no later than November 30, 1996 to evaluate, among
other things: (a) the status of execution of the institutional strengthening of
ONAMFA; (b) the status of preparation of the sector policy development
studies; (c) the implementation progress in terms of coverage objectives,
adequacy of targeting and beneficiary selection criteria and quality of services
provided; (d) the impact of project implementation on the status of children,
women and the community and the adequacy of the impact evaluation
variables and methodology; (e) the adequacy of available and programmed
project financing, including the sustainability of the project in the context of
the Government's social sector investment plan; (f) the compliance with
procurement and disbursement arrangements; and (g) the results of annual
project audits. On this basis, the Mid-Term Review would determine
whether adjustments in project arrangements and/or coverage targets should
be made. At negotiations, assurances were secured from the Government
that annual reviews with IDA would take place no later than November 30
each year; and that no later than November 30, 1996 a Mid-Term Review
would be held to carry out a comprehensive assessment of: the
implementation of the PIDI program and the project, including an assessment
of performance against agreed implementation indicators; project financing;
and the Government's social sector investment plan. Annex 13 provides an
estimated Supervision Plan for the project and the implementation indicators



- 42 -
to be examined during the annual and mid-term reviews. At negotiations,
final agreements were reached with the Government on the implementation
indicators and targets to be reviewed during the annual and mid-terrn
reviews.
H. Environmental Impact
7.23  The proposed project does not present environmental risks. It has
been assigned a "C" environmental classification.
8. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
8.1   By the end of the proposed project life, an installed capacity of some
8,600 day-care centers would exist to annually provide non-formal, home-
based, integrated child development services to some 130,000 of the
country's poorest pre-school children, 6 months to 6 years of age; and
cumulatively, by project end, taking into account anticipated promotions of
six year olds, more than 200,000 children are expected to have benefitted.
Women also would be direct beneficiaries through project contributions to
expanding employment opportunities (employing caregivers and, via access to
day-care, enabling mothers of participating children to work) and improving
their knowledge of education, health and nutrition. Specifically, by its
completion, the project will have trained and employed some 21,000
caregivers, most of whom are expected to be women. Approximately 8,600
of these caregivers also would benefit from access to credit to upgrade their
homes and, via direct beneficiary contributions, assistance in the payment of
basic utility bills to help offset the costs of using their homes for day-care
centers. Significant improvements also are expected in the health and
nutritional status of an estimated 16,000 pregnant women who either have
children participating in the project, or are caregivers, as project-secured
preferential user fees would increase utilization of pre- and post-natal care,
safe deliveries, and family planning, health and nutrition education and
services. An additional benefit would be the Govermnent's strengthened
ability to formulate and evaluate social policy, particularly in early child
development, and food and nutrition.
B. Risks
8.2   Principal risks relate to: (a) the possibility that the extensive project
implementation demands might outstrip ONAMFA's managerial and
administrative capacities; (b) uncertainties over the continuity of the GOB's
initial commitment to absorb fully project-generated recurrent costs over the



- 43 -
project life, crucial to its sustainability; and (c) the danger that desired
improvements in children's nutritional status will not be achieved because of
failure to maintain adequate dietary intake at the household level. With
regard to (a), this risk should be minimized by: direct project support for
ONAMFA's modernization initiative; ONAMFA's planned full incorporation
into the CSRP, thus facilitating recruitment and retention of high quality
staff; anticipated active assistance of NGOs and community groups in project
implementation; project-supported contracting of external supervision staff to
permit ONAMFA's close, continuous oversight of day-care activities; a very
conservative implementation timetable, based on moderate increases in
coverage objectives during the first half of the project, and annual and mid-
term project reviews to assess implementation progress and adjust the pace
and scope of implementation, as needed. With regard to (b), the GOB has
committed itself to a solid financing plan and to gradually assuming recurrent
costs on a clearly specified annual basis, including those generated by the
CSRP. To help ensure continuing commitment to this plan, the GOB will
review annually with IDA an updated financial plan for the successive three
years of project implementation. In addition, the GOB will review with IDA
at the project's Mid-Term Review its overall social sector investment plan to
ensure that adequate provision is made for project financing. The issuance of
the March 1993 Supreme Decree committing counterpart resources to the
project also should minimize this risk. And with regard to (c), intensive
health and nutrition education activities targeted toward parents of children
participating in the project seek to minimize this risk.
9. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.1   During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)   ONAMFA would maintain management with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA; and the annual audit report
would include a separate opinion as to whether CSRP criteria
for selection of personnel have been observed in the choice of
staff for project-financed CSRP positions (para. 5.15);
(b)   prior to opening any given group of day-care centers, an
agreement be finalized between ONAMFA and the respective
public or private referral health center to ensure availability to
project beneficiaries of a minimum acceptable package of
health and nutrition services (para. 5.33);
(c)   the agreed evaluation and monitoring systems have been
established and are under implementation no later than March
31, 1994; and that annual reports on progress and results of
the monitoring and evaluation component would be prepared
by ONAMFA and submitted for IDA review (para. 5.38);



-44 -
(d)   it would allocate in its annual budget, for the years 1994
through 1999, and each year thereafter, the following
minimum amounts (representing its direct budgetary
contribution and the financing to be sought from donors) for
the financing of project expenditures: (a) US$1.039 million
for CY94; (b) US$2.287 million for CY95; (c) US$5.38
million for CY96; (d) US$10.58 million for CY97;
(e) US$17.78 million for CY98; (f) US$27.73 million for
CY99; and (g) US$33.2 million for each year thereafter (para.
6.6);
(e)   it would submit for IDA review the results of, and
recommendations deriving from, studies to be carried out
under the Sector Policy Development and Management
Strengthening Component and the Monitoring and Evaluation
Component, in accordance with an agreed timetable (para.
7.9);
(f)   ONAMFA, through the procurement agent, would submit to
IDA for prior review bidding documents and award
recommendations for all contracts for goods to be procured
under ICB, and for contracts for goods valued at US$75,000
equivalent and above to be procured under LCB (para. 7.15);
(g)   the annually audited project accounts, in accordance with IDA
guidelines, would be submitted to IDA no later than six
months following the end of the Government's fiscal year
(para. 7.20);
(h)   ONAMFA would submit to IDA quarterly progress reports on
March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 each
year; and that the quarterly report of September 30 each year
shall include: (i) an assessment of overall implementation
progress over the past year, including implementation
indicators; (ii) a detailed work plan for the forthcoming year;
and (iii) an updated financial plan for the successive three
years of project implementation (para. 7.21); and
(i)   annual reviews with IDA would take place no later than
November 30 each year; and that no later than November 30,
1996 a Mid-Term Review would be held to carry out a
comprehensive assessment of: the implementation of the PIDI
program and the project, including an assessment of
performance against agreed implementation indicators; project
financing; and the Government's social sector investment plan
(para. 7.22).



- 45 -
9.2   At negotiations, final agreements were reached with the Government
on the implementation indicators and targets to be reviewed during the annual
and mid-term reviews (para. 7.22).
9.3   A condition of credit effectiveness would be that ONAMPA has
received from the Treasury an amount equivalent to not less than
US$340,000 for purposes of implementing the project during CY93 (para.
6.6).
9.4   Recommendation. With the above agreements and assurances, the
proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR
35,800,000 (US$50.7 million equivalent) to the Republic of Bolivia.



Annex 1
-46 -
BOLIVIA
iNTEGRATED CHLD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGAN IZAT IONAL STRUCTURE
ORGANISI4O RACIONAL DEL WENOR. MUJER Y FAMILIA "ONAMFA                   J
(CEIITRAL OFFICE)
r   BOARD OF  
DIRECTORS
PRESIDENT        ..............
PLANNIIIIOI
|COMMITTEE
EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR
INSTITUTIONAL
ANo SY T EMS
|ACTlo N  "LAN|                                        EA
FORTIONALE                            CHI D        CMMUIYIOES                   FIVPS          AOT
ANO WOMEN
OAFAGr OF            OF  R             OANGER OF PROGR 
----------------- -----------  AOMI NIST ATION    -----------___-__                --- t                        " rGR    HLDREN.  1------   -------_---------------
ACCOUNTIN    SUDOET  ASE        MNATERAL       RE. NATND E          NL || M
I   or rlNANcc     ADSINISTR^TION                                                                                                 A l  OEtT   oErT    |    OCeT    | |  ocrT    g }  oIIT    | N
| I    or  I I   or  11    or  1 l   or  1 l or    Tol'ol Dor      ITI,
|                                                       r      R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE310OWAL                                                     I
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~C  .. CO                           LTAT IVE      I 
I                                                      g    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COUNCILS | 
8                                                       |    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REOIObAL | 
-            ----------------------------------- -------------1                     XCTV ----------- ---------- EEUIE---------------------------------- '
DIRECTORS 



47 -                                                     Annex 1
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[    ORGAN I ZAT I ONAL STRUCTURE                                                  1
ORGANISMO NACIONAL DEL MENOR, MUJER Y FAMILIA "ONAMFA"
(REGIONAL OFFICES)                                   ;
REGIONAL
CONSULTATIVE
COUNCIL
REGIONAL
EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR
LEGAL
ADVISOR
[    MANAGERt OF  |4MANAGER OF PROG.
AO 1 INISTA AT[ON                                                 | FOR CHILDREN,
AND F,INANCE                                                     lWOMEN AND FAMILY
CHI LO      C....NITY        WOMENS        PIvU.
A:C'OVU'N:'                                   ~ ~~~~~~~EVEL  OUTREACH        PROGRtAM       CEER
FU  DEPT.          DEPT.          DEPT.          DEPT.
PIDI
OF|
MATERIALS



-48 -                                                      Annex 2
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: POPULATION PROJECTIONS FOR THE 34 LARGEST CITIES
cITE.          POPULATtON I1                                   POPULATIN O UONTtS TO S  nYAS
6 morths to
Corwus     Total'    6 yearstt    1993     1994      1995     1996     1997     1991      1999
I LaPaz              711,038    772,865    127,020  129,226  131,470  133,753  136.076  138,439  140,843  143.2s9
2 EtAlto             404,367    439,529      72,237   79,057   96,523   94,692  103,634  113,419  124,129  135.850
3 Vlachs               19,002     20,654      3.395    3,536    3,684    3,839    3,998    4,165    4,338    4,519
4 Sata Cruz          694,616    755,017    124,097  132,117  140,665  149,771  159,464  169,794  180.772  192,471
S MorAero              54,731     59,490      9,777    10,180   t0,599   11,036   11,491   11,964   12.457   12.971
6 Carnlrl              28,079     30,521      5,015    5,132    5,250    5,371    5,495    5,622    5,751    5,994
7 S.l.Valmsco          12,616     13,713      2,254    2,391    2,537    2,691    2,855      3,029    3,214    3,409
9 Mlnromg              11,114     12,080      1.995    2,058    2,132    2,210    2,290    2,373    2,459    2,549
9 Wernes               10,979     11,934      1,961     2,090    2,206    2,339    2,491    2,631    2,790    2.959
10 Robore               10,359     11,260      1,851     1,899    1,950    2,001    2,054    2,109    2.164    2,22t
11 PSuarez              10,240     11,130      1.929     1,933    2,042    2,157    2.279    2,407    2.543    2,687
12 Trlja               90,115      97,951     16,099   16,966   17,890   19,843   19,859   20,928   22,056   23,245
13 YaLiItle            31,049      33,749      5,547    5,925    6,330    6,762    7,224    7,717    9,244    9,eo7
14 4eemi  o            21,313      23,166      3,807    3,959    4,114    4,277    4,446    4,622    4,904    4,994
tS V11morteu            11,009     11,965      1,966    2,043    2,122    2,205    2,290    2.379      2,471    2,567
:G^-:.-: -: .: :.i$,": :- : : 42;3s: :: :  : 239  :: : 4;  ...  :::2,ei ...  .  28;0  36 ,l   :::X
16 8je                130,952    142,339      23.393   24,473   25,602   26,784   29,020   29,313   30,665   32,081
17 Colubanba          404,102    439,241      72,189   75,324   79,596   82,009   85.570   89,297   93,164   97,210
1S EleOullIollo        29,661      31,153      5,120    5,374    5.641    5,921    6,215    6,523    6,947    7,197
19 9 uQbIbLaolo        42,153      45,918      7,530    7,904    9,296    8,708    9,140    9,594    10,070   10,570
20 Pe Sacaba            21,830     23,728      3,900    4,155    4,427    4,717    5,026    5,355    5,705    6,079
21 Sacaba               15,318     16,650      2,736    2,916    3,106    3,310    3,526    3,757    4,003    4,265
22 Puruta               12,729     13,936      2,274    2,305    2,336    2,368    2,400    2,432    2,465    2,499
Q  - -Q                                                                                  3*29...ss,aX. -.,! ....... ......3........  35
23 Oruro               193,194    199,124     32,726   33,530   34,355   35,199   36,084   36,951   37,959   38,790
24 Hi'urdn              14,313     15,558      2,557    2,527    2,498    2,469    2,440    2,412    2,394    2,368
:P.O1,  ...     .                                                                         ..
..........  .......... .......   :   ..........   2   6j g ::  ,14;4::::35. ;  ........94::3.5.
25 Potosl              112,291    122,055     20,060   20,532   21,015   21,509   22,016   22,534   23,064   23,607
26 Vllbon              23,400     25,435      4,190    4,348    4,519    4,697    4,893    6,077    5,279    5,487
27 Ualmua               23,215     25,234      4,147    4,147    4,146    4,145    4,145    4,144      4,144    4,143
29 Tuplz                20,195     21,951      3,609    3,754    3,906    4,064    4,228    4,400    4,578    4,763
29 LMurd                11,301     12,294      2,019    2,049    2,078    2,109    2,139    2,171    2,202    2,235
30 Trta                 56,919a    61,867     10,168   10,641   11,136   11,656   12,197   12,765   13,359   13,961
31 Rlbermlta            41,584     45,200      7,429    7,846    8,297    8,753    9,245    9,764   10,313   10,892
32 Guyarartn            26,779     29,107      4,784    5,016    5,261    5,517    5,7s5    6,067    6,382    6,671
33 S.A.Yaaurre          14,731     16,012      2,632    2,900    2,979    3,169    3,372    3,587    3,917    4,061
............ ........... .:****.:.,~*                     ~:                      * *  k'....    ,
P .::    ..::-::::;4::: ...4   : ::1; 2-:::        e7:         ........2s51::: I....  I :: ...I....  .. : ............ :
34 Cob&I                 9,973     10,840      1,792    1,897    2,020    2,151    2,291    2,439    2,597    2,766
TOTAL            3,314,262               592,063  619,772  646,981  676,596  707,753  740,539  775,043  811,362
* Asmr  ta Ms COneus cmMited OM 9% of dthe Popagon   -
*! ChMn I mcnVh b  yews represert 16.43% of thI Popuaicn



BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: PROJECT TARGETS
Total Day-Care Centers Opening Year
1994                1995                 1996                 1997                 1998                 1999
Period          New    Cumulative   New    Cumulative   New    Cumulative   New    Cumulative   New    Cumulative   New    Cumulative
PPF                                 250
January - April          151         401      246        949       392       1,833      624      3,241       696      5,185       697      7,276
May - August              151        552      246       1,195      392       2,225      624      3,865       697      5.882       697      7,973
September - December     151         703      246       1,441      392       2,617      624      4,489       697      6,579       697      8,670
TOTAL             453                  738                 1,176               1,872                2,090                2.091
-~.     -          -         -                    -        -.          -       '                            
Total Beneficiary ChildrenNear
1994                1995                 1996                 1997                 1998                 1999
Period          New    Cumulative   New    Cumulative    New    Cumulative   New    Cumulative   New    Cumulative   New    Cumulative
PPF                                3.750
January - April         2.265      6.015     3,690     14.235     5.880     27,495     9.360    48.615    10,440     77,775    10,455    109,140
May - August            2,265      8,280     3,690     17,925     5,880     33,375    9,360     57,975    10.455     88.230    10,455    119.595
September - December   2.265      10,545     3.690     21,615     5,880     39,255    9,360     67,335    10,455     98,685    10,455    130,050
TOTAL            6.795               11,070               17,640              28,080               31,350               31,365
Annual Promotion        2,109                4,323     _          7,851               13,467 1             19.737              26,010
Cumulative Promotion    2,109         _      6,432               14.283         .     27,750              47,487               73,497
Total Coverage         12,654               28,04?               53,538               95,085              146,172             203,547
Total Caregivers/Year
1994                 1995                 1996                 1997                 1998                 1999
NNew   TCumulativ    New   |Cumulative   Now   |Cumulatives   New   ICumulativel  New   |Cumulative|  New   iCumulativel
TOTAL               1,6871    1,887       1,7711    3,458      2,8221   8,280       4,4941   10,7741    6,0181   15,790       5,018|  20,808
TOTAL                                                                                                 3vdse~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



- 50 -
~~~~~~~~~Anex 2
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: POPULATION AT RISK I Malnourished Children Ages Six Months to Six Years)
M ALNOURISHED POPULATiON (S months tog years)
Pr.valwmc of
CITIES            Malnutrition    1992         1993        1994      1995       1996      1997       1998      1999
.L P.. ..:.:::::::  ,:::::       ........  ..........:.:..: ::  a 8381.:.83,26? :62. 6   .....9,56 s.9. ;as4:**.. 99,..7:
1 La Paz                              48,636      49,481    50,340    51,214    52,104    53,008    53,929    54,865
2 El Alto                             27,659       30,271    33,129    36,258    39,681    43,429    47,529    52,017
3 Viacha                               1,300        1,354     1,411      1,469     1,531      1,595     1,661      1,731
iSANTA CRU 2g :::  ::9.q:18%:  : .,s2t::.:..::44,6ss::::47,s7i:.::0,87. 54::3~9B.I.::.51,504<  : Si 25:, s:65:.2;3:
4 Santa Cruz                          34,968       37,231    39.640    42,206    44,937    47,845    50,942    54,239
5 Moraero                              2,755        2,869     2,987      3,110     3,238      3.372     3,510      3,655
6 CanIri                               1,414        1,446      1,479     1,514     1,548      1.584     1,621      1,659
7 S.I.Volasoo                            635          674       715        75ii      805       854        906       961
a Minorco                                559          580       601        623       645       669        693       718
9 Warnes                                 553          596       622        659       699       741        786       934
10 Robor?                                 521         535        549        564       579       594        610       626
II P.Suarez                               515         545        575       609        642       678        717       7S7
A       .iJA  ::.... .. 30.58%      8,385        8,881.  .. 3,406 .,  9,963.  tO,553  . ill 7 :. 0t1,839.: 1259
12 Tarlis                               4,923        s.188     5,469      5,762     6,073      6,400     6,745      7.109
13 Yaajiba                              1,696        1,812     1,936      2,068     2,209      2,360     2,521      2,693
14 Beramjo                              1,164        1,210      1,258     1,308     1,360      1,413     1,469      1,527
15 Vlllamrrones                           601         625        649       674        700       727        756       79s
Bf&JUlSACA:---::: :::33 sN:::9,0s23:::9.::439:.:.. sB7:: .10,30 :::: t097. 1? :  :l:30oe :3:1:t.628 :.:12!7a:7
16 Sucre                                9,023        9,439     9,875    10,330    1 0,807    11,306    11,928    12,373
suc..~ ~~~~~~~~~.......                                       .  ..2
. . .   . .. .   . .   .. .... . . . ... .                                    .    . . .   . . .   .             .. . . ..
CQCF AAMBA.... 3s.3sr-   : 3,178. :i::::a4: 3               6.saa: ~,58.  :39a;22 .. 4a349.:~ 42,372 .:  44,486 :.::e7
17 Cochabamba                          25,s48       26,657    27.815    29,023    30,283    31,s99    32,971    34,403
19 El. Oullaoollo                       1,812        1.902      1,996     2,095     2.199      2,309     2,423     2,543
19 ouliltalIo                           2,665        2.797     2,936      3,082     3,235     3,395      3,564     3,741
20 Ei Sacaba                            1,380        1,470      1,567     1,669     1,779      1,895     2,019      2,151
21  Sacraba                               968        1,032      1,099     1,171     1,249      1,330     1,417      1,509
22 Punats                                 805          816       827       838        849       861        872       984
~RUR~.   *::.    .39.33%.   :....:t3~77.:  :    1:977..:: .138..  ..... ...77.... . ..  .....:...   .8.  .. ... ....  ......  ...
23 Oruro                               12,671       13,188    13.512    13,644    14,184    14,533    14,890    15.256
24 Huanirn                              1,006          994      9s2         971       960       949        937       927
F2 O:.::.::::::::4342                     '  ':.:::e?s:::!,s:::sA3::abq::.627::l,  t3:.::::: 0e:::::.is 
25 PotosI                               9,690        1,s94     9,104      9,319     9,s37      9,762     9,991    10,226
26 Villazon                             1,811        1,883      1,957     2,035     2,115      2,199     2,286      2,377
27 Uallagua                             1,797        1,796      1,796     1,796     1,796      1,795     1.795      1,795
29 Tupiza                               1,563        1,626      1,692     1,760     1,632      1,906     1,983      2,063
29 Uyunr                                  875          e97       900        913       927       940        954       969
BE   .::...::: ..::. .. :   . .:.:.:: .....:  :::  7. 451.............. .. . .........: 3.::. : . :. .9809  .:. . . ..:    9848  ::!. :::  . ... . t
30 TrInIdad                             3,029        3,170     3,318      3,472     3,634      3,803     3,980      4,165
31  Rberalia                            2,213        2,337     2,469      2,607     2,754      2,909     3,072      3,245
32 Guayaramerin                         1,425        1,494      1,567     1,643     1,723      1,907     1,9ss      1,987
33 S.A.Yacura                             784          834       s87       944      1,004      1,069     1,137      1,210
...... ::::                    .................       09.......42...... ...7...5 6S..  ::::::qs..4::.:::.::.5.. 7...
34 Cobila                                 449          478       509        542       577       615        654       697
TOTAL                             206,613      215,526   224,885   234,714   245,037   255.882   267,275   279,249



- 51 -
Annex 2
Table 4: Beneficiary Pregnant Women 15 - 49 Age Group
Potential Pregnant Women 15 - 49 Age Group
CITIES         1992      1993      1994      1995      1996     1997      1998      1999
LA PAZ                  7,417     7,751    8,113     8,501     8,919     9,370     9.857   10,381.
1. La Paz              4,649     4,729     4,811     4,895     4,980     5,067     5,155     5,244
2. El Alto              2,644     2,893    3,167     3,466     3,793     4,151     4,543     4,972
3. Viacha                 124      129       135       140       146       152       159       165
SANTA CRUZ              3,106     3,295    3,496     3,707     3,936     4,174     4,429    .4,701
4. Santa Cruz           2,591     2,759    2,937     3,127     3,330     3,545     3,775     4,019
5. Montero               204       213       221       230       240       250       260       271
6. Camiri                 105      107       110       112       115       117       120       123
7. S.1 Velasco            47        50        53        56        60        63        67        71
8. Mineros                41        43        45        46        48        50        51        53
9. Wames                  41        43        46        49        52        55        58        62
10. Robor                 39        40        41        42        43        44        45       46
11. P. Suarez             38        40        43        45        48        50        53        56
TARIJA                   618       652       687       724       763       804    . .. 848    894
12. Tanla                363       383       403       425       448       472      498        524
13. Yacuibo              125       134       143       153       163       174       186       199
14. Bermejo               86        89        93        96       100       104       108       113
15. Villamontes           44        46        48        50        52        64        56        58
CHUQUISACA               712       745       779       815       853       892       933     .-976.
16. Sucre                712       745       779       815       853       892       933      976
COCHABAMBA              2,949     3,082    3,220     3,365     3,517     3.677     3,745 - -. 4.:4019
17. Cochabamba          2,270    2,369     2,472     2,579     2,691     2,808     2,930     3,057
18. Eie Qillacollo       161       169       177       186       195       205       215      226
19 Quillacolo-           237       249       261       274       287       302       217       332
20. Ee Sacaba             123      131       139       148       158       168       179       191
21. Sacaba                 86       92        98       104       111       118       126       134
22. Punata                72        72        73        74        75        76        78        79
ORURO                   1,279   . 1,307    1,336      1,364 -  1.395- 1,426 - -1,458:- 1.4911
23. Oruro               1,186     1,215    1.245      1,275    1,307     1,339     1,372     1,406
24. Huanuni               93        92        91        89        88        87        86        85
POTOSI                  1,247     1,277    1,308.-  1,339      1.372:  .. 1,406:   1441      1,476
25. Potosi               736       753       771       789       808       827       846       866
26. Villazon              163      159       168       172       179       186       194       201
27. Llallagua             152      152       152       152       152       152       152       162
28. Tupiza                132      138       143       149       155       161       168       176
29. Uyuni                 74        75        76        77        78        80        81        82
BENI                     625       657       690       727       764       805  ..:..846      889
30. Trinidad             254       266       278       291       305       319       334       349
31. Riberatta             186      196       207       219       231       244       258       272
32. Guyaramerin           119      125       131       138       144       152       159       167
33. S.A. Yacuma            66       70        74        79        84        90        95       101
PANDO                     38       .40        43        45..   .48          ..2 -:    55
34. Cobrp.-               38        40        43        45        48        62        66        58
TOTAL'             17,991    18,806    19,672    20,587    21,667    22,606    23,612    24,886
TOTAL PROJECT
BENEFICIARIESk(umJadvef'  67       347     1,081     2,375     4,528     7,695    11,609    16,057
COVERAGE(%)'         0.4       1.9       5.5      11.7      21.3      34.7      50.2      66.6



BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHIILD DEVELOPNMENT PROJECT
SECTOR POLICY AND MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
Modernization of ONAMFA
Matrix of Objectives, Outputs and Costs
Timing
Area                               ObjcAtives                             Activilies/Output                   (IProjcct Ycar)  Costs (base cost)
1. Technical Assistaice to Supervise    To provide continuity and technical  Appointment of Advisor           PY 1-3         36 months local consultant = USS72.000
Modemrizaticn Program            supervisicn for modrenization activities,    position to coordinate
including civil service reform process  restructuring activitics
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -_ _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_ _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
2. Consolidation of Administrative  To achieve an efficient and transparent
and Financial Sysenms            control of the administrative and
financial operations of ONAMFA.
specificaly in the reas or:
accounting personnel. budgeting.
assetinventory, warehouses, and
procuremnent
A. Monitoring and Verification   To ensure that key systems              Annual studies of:                  PY 1-6         4 months local consultants
of Systems                      are adequately designed and             - functicnal mnalysis of die                       each ycar of project = $48,000
are functioning according to            implementation of the
legal and administrative norms           key systems
and procedures                          - Design of .gpecifications
for system improvcnients
- Manitoring of applicalions
B. Maintenance/implenmentaticn   To incorporate a process tIihat         Annual impienciication of           PY 1-6         Annually, 100 programs revised (USS5.000)
of Design Modificaticns         allows for modifications and           design recommendations into                           US$30,000
fine-tuning as necessary               existing computer programs
C Training                       To ensure that technical staff          Exumal services contracted to       PY 1-3         Annually, US$3(Wtrainee = USS21,000
are capable of system use              train 70central and regional
and maintenance                        staff in the operation
of the six key systems
(PYI-40, PY2-20, PY3-10)
la'tcrnal services contracted to   PY 1-3          Annually. US$20tVtrainee = US$20.000    .
train 100 central and regional
staff in basic software                                                                    I
(d-base) applications
(I'YI-50, PY2-25. I'Y2-25) 



BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SECTOR POLICY AND MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
Modernization of ONAMFA
Matrix of Objectives, Outputs and Costs
Tuning
Area                                Objectives                              Activities/Output                    (Project Year)   Costs (base cost)
D. Equipment                      To increase the lechnical                Installation of appropriate          PY I            USS188,500
capacity and efficiecicy of             computer capacity in cach                             (including procurement fce)
information management                  departmental office and in tle
main administrative areas
in the central office of ONAMFA
-----------------------_------------------------------------------__---------__---------------------------------
3. Technical/Administrative        To obtain indicators that                An evaluation of the stiructure,     PY 3             US$45,000
Evaluation of ONAMrIA             describe the degree of                   policies and systems of the
administrative development of           ONAMIFA, specifically in the
ONAMFA                                  areas of planning. personnel,
intensal management, productivity,
cost structures, and tlhe ability
to carry out programmatic goals
4. Analysis of Information         To evaluate the information               'Plan Inforniatico' for lhe         PlY 3            USSIQ.000
Systems of ONAMrA                 systems in place and                     next five year period
specify tie needs of; ONAMrA
over the next rwe year period
in terms of further automatizaticn,
integration of syslems, network
possibilities, and an investment
plan to update technologies
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------_.-------------------------------------
5. Implementation of Civil Service  To ensure a core ofhigh-caliber and     Incorporaticn of 33 kcy ONAMFA       PY 1-6           US$1,095,038
Reform Program within ONAMFA   stable staff in key managerial and technical  positions within the CRSP, per
positions to increase the efFiciency    agreement with the Ministry of
and effectiveness of ONAMFA             Financt on tinuing and procedures
Total Cost: US$1,529,538



BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SECTOR POLICY AND MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
Modernization of ONAMFA - Timeline of Activities
Actvity                                   Year 1            Year 2             Year 3            Year 4            Year 5            Year 6
1. Technical Assistance                   x) )))3)
to Supervse Implementation
(advisor position)
2. Administrative/Financial
Systems:
A. Monitoring and                        X                                                                                                             L
Verification of Systems
S. Maintenance/Implementation
of Design Mocifications
C. Training
D. Installation of Equipment
-Procurement                        X
- nstallation
3. Technical/Administrative
Evaluation of ONAMFA
4. Analysis of Information
Systems/Needs;
Presentation of Plan
5. Civil Service Reform Programx



- 55 -
Annex 4
BOLUVIA
1NTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Bolivian Civil Service Reform Program
1.        The Program Prior to Mid-1992. The Public Sector Management
Strengthening Program (PSM), first presented to the donor community in July 1988, marked
the Bolivian Government's initial effort to rationalize and professionalize public service.
Only the first stage of the original PSM was ever developed. This introductory stage, to be
implemented in 3 to 5 years, incorporated approximately 500 "key positions" (at the director
to mid-level manager level in the core central Government agencies) into a new and higher
paying "civil service"--i.e., the program created a high-status elite/senior executive service.
However, at the same time, important progress was made towards completing technical
background studies required to design and implement a more comprehensive civil service
reform. Included among these were reviews of staffing and functions in a number of key
ministries, studies examining personnel policies and career development, and studies to
determine an appropriate administrative and personnel management system. In addition,
personnel recruitment and selection procedures were developed, tested and refined through
pilot civil service exercises.
2.        Progress since Mid-1992: The Administrative Reform Program. Based on the
results of these studies and pilots, in mid-1992 the Government re-focused its efforts to
reform public service. The new focus recognizes the need to take a comprehensive and
longer-term view of the civil service within the overall framework of an institutional and
administrative reform. Such a view--expressed in the Government's document Programa de
Reforma Administrativa en Bolivia: El Sistema de Servicio CYvil--includes: (a) an acceptable
conceptual definition of "civil service"; (b) the civil service requirements within a context of
an overall reform of the state--including a need to adapt (both in terms of number and
quality) the civil service towards the new role of the state (i.e., a leaner, yet more
sophisticated role); (c) normative and administrative frameworks for a comprehensive
program; (d) a strategy and procedures for implementation and for system management both
in the transitory period and afterwards; and (e) rough economic and financial implications of
such a reform.1' A Civil Service Unit (CSU) in the Ministry of Finance has been made
responsible for the design and implementation of this comprehensive Civil Service Reform
Program (CSRP) which was legitimized by Supreme Decree No. 23336 published on
November 11, 1992.
3.        The CSRP, to be implemented in 10 years, will incorporate the central public
administration which contains approximately 12,200 persons. The major purpose of the
reform is to improve the quality and efficiency of public personnel at all levels by
implementing a system that will attract, select, hire, retain and develop highly technical and
competent staff. As a by-product of the reform, it is anticipated that the central
I/   This document was presented to the donor community during the Meeting of the Consultative Group for
Bolivia, held October 28-30, 1992 in Paris.



- 56 -
Annex 4
administration would be reduced to about 7,200 (a 40% reduction) primarily through major
changes in staffing ratios resulting from extensive organizational reviews; i.e., the
technical/support staff ratio will change from 2:5 to 3:2. Under the program, public sector
salaries are being substantially increased and financing will be provided by the Bolivian
treasury (TGN) with support from external sources on a declining basis. In the middle years
when the costs are the greatest, the TGN would finance approximately 85 % of the total
costs, and will assume the entire cost burden of the program after the tenth year.
4.        Implementation Strategy. The new initiative was launched in March 1993.
During the first half of 1993, five new institutions will begin to be incorporated into the
program--the Ministries of Planning and Coordination, and Finance, the National Statistics
Institute (INE), the Organismo Nacional de la Mujer y Familia (ONAMFA), and Secretaria
Nacional del Medio Ambiente (SENMA)--and the program will continue to be implemented
in two institutions which participated in pilot phases--the Ministerio de Agricultura y Asuntos
Campesinos (MACA) and Direccion General de Impuestos Internos (DGII). Institutions are
not automatically accepted into the civil service program; each institution must qualify by
meeting the eligibility requirements. To be included, an institution must be: (a) actively
participating in a sectoral or the overall state reform program; (b) designated as a
Government priority; and (c) implementing an institutional restructuring program which has
been designed and evaluated using common methodologies established by the CSRP.
5.        Personnel Selection Procedures. Once an institution is accepted into the
program, an implementation plan is designed by the CSU and the institution. Personnel
selection procedures--specifically designed to preserve the transparency and credibility of the
program--are rigorous and time consuming taking a minimum of two months to implement.
The selection process begins with a civil service position declared as vacant and publicly
advertised on a national level. This means that the incumbent must resign and compete for
the position with all others who have completed the civil service application forms. Each
application is first reviewed by a Primer Comitd, which consists of four members--the
immediate supervisor of the vacant position, another representative of the institution, a
representative of the CSU, and a representative from the international donor community.
This committee evaluates both the academic and work experience of each applicant. If at
least three applicants are found qualified, the application is passed onto the Segundo Comite--
otherwise, the job is re-advertised. This second committee--consisting of at least one
representative of the institution (usually at the level of Subsecretary), a donor representative,
a representative of the CSU, and at least one technical expert--interviews all qualified
candidates on technical matters and assesses other qualities, such as reasoning/problem
solving abilities and ability to work in teams. After all candidates are interviewed and
evaluated, the committee must reach a consensus on which candidate is the most qualified
and only then an offer is extended.
6.        Follow-up. For the purposes of receiving IDA support, the experience of
ONAMFA will be considered a pilot exercise. A specific audit will be performed examining
the application of the above civil service procedures and rules in the selection of personnel
for the ONAMFA positions.



- 57 -                          Annex 4
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ONAMFA POSITIONS TO BE FINANCED UNDER THE CREDIT
Directorate/Position Title            Nwnber   Grade Level        Annual
of        (CSRP)          Salary
Positions                  Assumption
(USS equivalent)
Administrative-Financial Directorate
Director                                 1          D,             23,400
Chief, Department of Administration      1          E3              11,700
Chief, Personnel Division                I          E,              10,400
Chief, Financial Department              I          E3              11,700
Chief, Division of Fixed Assets          1          E4              10,400
Chief, Division of Accounting            I          E4              10,400
Chief, Division of Warehouses            I          E4              10,400
Directorate of the Woman and Family
Director                                 1          D2             26,000
Chief, Department of Community Attention    I       E,              13,000
Technical Expert on Minors               1          P7              9,100
Technical Expert on the Elderly          I          PJ              9,100
Chief, Department of Centers             I          E&              13,000
Technical Expert, Public Facilities      I          P7              9,100
Technical Expert, Private Facilities     1          P7              9,100
Chief, Department of Adoptions           I          E2              13,100
Legal Advisor                            I          P7              9,100
Social Worker                            I          P7              9,100
Regional Offices
Administrative-Financial Director         8         E3              11,700
Director of the Woman and Family          8         E2             13,000
TOTAL                33



- 58 -                               Annex 5
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Home Rehabilitation Component
Fee Schedule for Grant-Loan Repayment
Actual    Percentage
Total Amount of    Number of       Amount of      Amount of   of Grant-
Gr-ant-Loan      Payments        Monthly        Grant-Loan     Loan
Payment         to be      Rcvr
Recovered
US dollars                             US dollars
100              6               8              48         48.00
150              9               8              72         48.00
200              12              8               96        48.00
250              14              9              126         50.40
300              18              8              144        48.00
350              20              9              180        51.40
400              24              8              192         48.00
450              24              9              216        48.00
500              24              10             240        48.00



BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Management Information System (SIG)
Party
Responsible   Frequency of
Instrument for    for Data     Analysis
Objectives           Variable                     Indicators                 Data Collection   Registration
Evaluate the         Day-Care Centers             *   No. of functioning     Form 06          Regional      Monthly
fulfillment of       (pidis)                          pidis                  Worksheet 06-1   Technical
programmned                                       *   No. of new pidis       Management       Teams
coverage targets                                  0   No. of pidis closed, by  Info System
cause                 (SIG)
*   No. of pidis under
rehabilitation
*   No. of pidis
completely equipped
Regional Technical Team     0   No. of technical staff   Form 00        Regional       Monthly
on the regional team  SIG              Coordinator
*   No. of new technical
staff
*   No. of technical staff
who have left the
project, by cause
* No. of technical staff
in_training                                                         l
I.



Party
Responsible   Frequency of
Instrument for   for Data     Analysis
Objectives           Variable                   Indicators                 Data Collection   Registration
Supervisors                 *   Total No. of          Form 00         Regional       Monthly
Supervisors           SIG             Technical
Team
*   No. of new
supervisors
*   No. of supervisors
who have left the
project, by cause
*   No. of supervisors in
training
Caregivers                  *  Total No. of           Form 00         Regional       Monthly
Caregivers            SIG             Technical
Team
*   No. of new caregivers
*   No. of caregivers who
have left the project,
by cause
*   No. of caregivers who
have not repaid their
total rehabilitation loan
*   No. of caregivers in
training              _               _     _   _



Party
Responsible   Frequency of
Instrument for    for Data     Analysis
Objectives           Variable                    Indicators                 Data Collection   Registration
Children                    Total no. of children      Form 11          Technical     Monthly
enrolled:                 Worksheet 11 -2   staff in
(a) by age                SIG              charge and
(b) by sex                                 caregiver
* No. of children who left
the project, by cause
* No. of children enrolled
for 6 months or more
* No. of child-days per
month of non-attendance
by cause
* No. of child-days per
month
* No. of functioning days
Evaluate the extent of  1. Targeting and Selection  of day-care centers
compliance with
established technical   (a)  Selection of         0 Category of the         Form 01          Regional       Quarterly
and operational              communities to         community, according    SIG              Technical
norms of the project        participate in project    to the Poverty Map                     Team
(b) Selection of children   * Nutritional status:   Worksheet II-I   Technical     Quarterly
for day-care centers                           SIG              staff in
(pidis)             * Normal or degree of                       charge
malnutrition
Social Risk Factors:
(a)  Working parents
without child care
(b) Under care of one
person (e.g., single
parent)
(c)  Family of 5 or more
children                            l



Party
Responsible   Frequency of
Instrument for   for Data     Analysis
Objectives           Variable                   Indicators                 Data Collection   Registration
(c) Selection of         Age                        Form 04         Technical     Quarterly
Caregivers            Level of Education        Worksheet 04-1  staff in
| _______________ _ .Training                                               SIG             charge
2. Community Promotion      * No. of community        Form 01         Regional      Quarterly
organizations contracted,  SIG          Technical
by community                            Team
* No. of community        Form 01         Regional      Quarterly
organizations that     SIG              Technical
participate in the                      Team
project, by type
3. Initial Training         * No. of candidates       Form 07-1       Regional and   Quarterly
enrolled               SIG              National
Technical
*  Knowledge of                           Teams
participants
(a) Average test score
on entry to training
* (b) Average test score
upon completion of
training
* No. of persons selected   Form 07-b     Participants    Quarterly
as caregivers          SIG
* Satisfaction of
participants with training
(average score)



Party
Responsible   Frequency of
Instrument for   for Data     Analysis
Objectives          Variable                    Indicators                Data Collection   Registration
4. Functioning of the Day-
Care Centers
(a) Health              Monitoring of Children    Form 14         Technical     Monthly
Worksheet 14-1  staff in
* No. of children with   SIG              charge
health card
* No. of children with
health card up-to-date
and correctly completed
* No. of children with full
vaccination. Regimen
completed within 6
months of entry to day-
care center
Monitoring of Preznant and  Form 15       Technical     Monthly
Lactating Women          Worksheet 15-1  staff in
SIG             charge
* No. of pregnant and
lactating women with
children participating in
the project
* No. of pregnant and                     Technical     Monthly
lactating women who                    staff in
have received health                   charge
control visits
0%



Party
Responsible   Frequency of
Instrument for   for Data     Analysis
Objectives           Variable                   Indicators                 Data Collection   Registration
* No. of well- and mildly-  Form 13       Technical      Monthly
malnourished children    Worksheet 13-1  staff in
weighed and measured    SIG             charge
monthly
(b)  Nutrition             *  No. of children who     Form 13
are mildly             Worksheet 13-2
malnourished and have    SIG
not gained weight
between control visits,
and moderately and
severely malnourished
children who:
(a) are weighed weekly
(b) have had a medical
control visit twice a
month by a doctor
at the referral
health center
* No. of children,        Form 13         Technical      Monthly
according to their     Worksheet 13-1  staff in
nutritional status:    SIG              charge
(a) Normal
(b) Mildly
malnourished
(c) Moderately
malnourished
(d) Severely
malnourished



Party
Responsible   Frequency of
Instrument for   for Data     Analysis
Objectives           Variable                   Indicators                 Data Collection   Registration
(c) Education             Children
* No. of children with    Form 12         Technical      Quarterly
development chart that    Worksheet 12-1  staff in
is up-to-date          SIG              charge
* No. of children to
whom the Child
Development Scale has
been applied
* No. of children
according to their
development status:
Alert
Median
* No. of children who,
upon reaching 6 years of
age, enter primary
school
Evaluation of caregiver's    Form 08       Technical     Quarterly
performance, by functional   SIG           staff in
l_____________________      areas                                      charge
5. Payment of User Charges   * No. of parents who have  Worksheet 09-1   Caregiver   Monthly
paid the full user fee, by  SIG
day-care center
* Total amount of user
fees received by month
in each day-care center
o~



Party
Responsible    Frequency of
Instrument for    for Data         Analysis
Objectives              Variable                         Indicators                    Data Collection    Registration
6. Administration
(a)  Rehabilitation Fund      *  No. of caregivers          Form 03            Technical        Monthly
receiving support for      Worksheet 03-1   staff in
rehabilitation of their    SIG                charge
homes
* Total amount disbursed
for rehabilitation
' Total amount recovered
l _________________      ________________________           for  rehabilitation
ON
0h
o.



Party
Responsible   Frequency of
Instrument for    for Data     Analysis
Objectives           Variable                     Indicators                 Data Collection   Registration
(b)  Food, Materiel &      * No. of dry-rations       Form 03         Technical      Monthly
Equipment               received by day-care    Worksheet 03-3  staff in
center                                   charge
* Quantity of fresh food  Worksheet 03-1
received by day-care
center
* Quantity of materials   Worksheet 10-1
received by day-care
center
* No. of day-care centers   Worksheet 10-2
which receive
replacement of
equipment
Expenditures per day-care    Worksheet 10-3
center from funds received
by parents, by type of
expenditure
(c) Health Fund          Monthly average            SIG              Regional       Monthly
expenditure, by region                      Technical
_ _ _ _ _ _                _   _  _   _  _   _   _  _   _  _   _   _    ~~~~~~          ~ ~   ~ ~~~~~~Team   _ _



Party
Responsible   Frequency of
Instrument for    for Data     Analysis
Objectives           Variable                     Indicators                 Data Collection   Registration
7. Functioning of Parents'  * No. of parents'          Form 05          Technical     Quarterly
Associations                associations formed                      staff in
charge or
* No. of day-care centers   Form 10        supervisor
with associated parents'
associations
* No. of training courses   Worksheet 05-1
provided to managers of
parents' associations
* Fulfdilment of          Worksheet 06-2
presentation of periodic   SIG
reports of parents'
associations                                                                 o
00
S. Interinstitutional
Coordination
(a) NGOs                   *   No. of agreements      Form 01          Regional       Quarterly
signed, according to    Form 02        Technical
nwdality              SIG              Team
*   No. of day-care
centers operating with
assistance of NGOs
*   No. of agreements
rescinded, by cause
(b) Ministry of Social     No. of health centers that    Form 01       Regional       Quarterly
Assistance and Public    provide assistance to day-    SIG         Technical
Health (MPSSP)         care centers according to                   Team
their agreement                                                                  Ei



Party
Responsible    Frequency of
Instrument for    for Data      Analysis
Objectives            Variable                     Indicators                   Data Collection   Registration
(c) Ministry of Education    * No. of illiterate persons   Worksheet 11 1   Technical    Quarterly
and Culture               identified:               Reports of        staff in
(a) Caregivers           SENALEP           charge
(b) Parents of children
enrolled in day-care
centers
* No. of illiterate persons
who participate in
literacy SENALEP
program:
(a) Caregivers
0) Parents of children
enrolled in day-care
centers
(d) Food Donors               * No. of rations          Agreement         Regional       Quarterly
programmed, by        forms             Technical
donor                                   Team
* No. of rations
received, by donor
(e) Financiers              *    Funds committed, by   Financing          National       Monthly
category of           agreements        Team
disbursement
*   Funds disbursed, by    Accounting
category of           System
disbursement
*    Funds expended, by
category of           Account
disbursement           Statements
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _SIG  _



BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPACT EVALUATION SYSTEM
An Analytical Model
Community                  Proram                                                                       PrSchoo
|Chcaracteri    | c        Characterisics|       l          Developmental Outcomes                        Partciptio
School Outcomnes
Background   *            articiation in     *    Women's  <  -* Community                                                             School
Variblots (Famiy                PIDI              _Well-Being                     Organization  |/Charactoristics
A                          /~~~~~~~~~~~~
r~~~~~~



- 71 -
Annex 6
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Impact Evaluation System
An Analytical Model
VARIABLES
Background Variables     Participatn   ODayCare Cente       Program Characteristics
Income/Employment             Yes/No                         Quality
Family Structure              Age of Entrance                Efficiency
Language                      Length in Program
Parental Education
Water
Outcome Variables                 Pre-School-                    Schooling...
Child Well-Being              Yes/No                         Age at Entrance
* Health                      Type                           Repetition
* Nutrition                                                  Dropout
' Psycho-Soc Dev.                                            Performance
Behavior
Women's Well-Being
* Personal Health
* Labor Force Insertion
* Education Level
* Childrearing Knowlege
Expectations
* Self-esteem
Community Organization and
Action



- 72 -                          Annex 7, Table I
BOLIMA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Summary
Local I Foreign       Total        % Total
% Foreign    Base
l-----USS million------  Exchange    Costs
A. Sector Policy Development
and Management Stengthening
1. Sector Policy Development        0.7        0.5       1.2        42.6      0.9
2. Management Strengthening         2.5        0.2       2.7         7.9      2.1
Subtotal                                3.2        0.7      3.9         18.5      3.0
B. Service Delivery Support
1. Home Rehabilitation              2.9        0.0       2.9         0.0      2.2
2. Equipment for Centers            18.9       10.6     29.5        36.1     22.4
3. Training                         2.1        0.5       2.6         19.8      1.9
4. Food Supplementation            49.1        0.0      49.1         0.0      37.2
5. Stipends to Caregivers           16.5        0.0     16.5         0.0      12.5
6. Health Fund                       1.2       0.0       1.2         0.0       0.9
7. Operation Costs of Centers       8.3        0.0       8.3         0.0       6.3
8. Equipment for Project            0.3        0.4       0.7        62.6      0.5
Offices
9. Vehicles                         0.0        0.9       0.9        100.0     0.7
10. Extend Supervision               2.6        0.0      2.6          0.0      2.0
11. Salaries and Administrative     10.3        1.0      11.3         8.5      8.6
Costs
Subtoal                               112.2       13.4    125.6         10.7    95.3
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
1. Monitoring                       0.1        0.0       0.1        30.0      0.1
2. Evaluation                       1.3        0.9       2.2        40.0      1.7
Subtoal                                 1.4        0.9      2.3         39.6      1.7
Total Basdine Costs                   116.4       15.0    131.3         11.4    100.0
1. Physical Contingencies           0.1        0.1       0.2        45.2      0.1
2. Price Contingencies              6.4         1.7      8.1        21.3      6.2
Totol Projec Costs                    123.3       16.9    140.2         12.1    106.3



BOLMA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
F hnncn Plan by Year
USS milon
YearS Governt  ..   t.DA   -%    W.F.P,  #            BenetIParleF  %    UNICEF    %    CE    %    ASD 'IF         %     Oth         %     TOWa    %
1994         1.40   18    5.30 00       0.96  11            0.27   3        0.46   5    0.00   0           0.58   7          0.00   0      8.90   6           - $
1995        2.29   24    5.14   54      1.00 11             0.43   5        0.32   3    0.27   3           0.00   0          0.00   0      9.51   7
1995        3.20   21    6.94   45      1.51   10           0.83   5        0.30   2    0.31   2           0.00   0          2.18   14    15.27   11
1997        4.11   16   1024   40       2.40   9             1.49   6       0.20   1    0.47   2           0.00   0          6.47   25    25.38   18
1996        5.00   14   11.78   33      3.00   8             2.38   7       0.00   0    0.39   1           0.00   0         12.78   36    35.33   25
1999        5.00  11   11.30   25       300   7              3.36   7        0.00   0    0.42   1          0.00   0         22.73   50    45.81   33
oW- : - -: 2100 -:::- 15-.=. 501036-8:   11.93   9 -         8.76   6    -  1.28   1    1.86   1    :-:  0.58   0           44.16   3    140.20  100
O)    8i&ppot fo pparailn from USAID and Social wemet Fund
()   Co4lnncn to be confirmed duvig the Ajnma and Ml-Term Revew
I.
a'



3.1                                 74 -                                    Annex 8
Presidencia de la Rep6bIlca
O  N AM  FA\ Organismo nocional del menor, mujer y fomillo
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHTI DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPREME DECREE NO. 23415
JAIME PAZ ZAMORA
CONSTITUTIONAL PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC
CONSIDERING%
That the social politics of the Government of National
Unity is to prioritize the protection of women in disadvantage
circumstances as well as the infant population, due to the fact
that they constitute the group with the largest vulnerability
in the most impoverished segments of the population.
That the Ten Year Action Plan for Women and Children
permit concentrated intersectorial and inter institutional
actions to elevate the impact of investments that favor the
objectives of the development of women and children, for which
the food donations, the technical assistance and the financial
cooperations of the country should be geared towards making up
for  the  nutritional,  health,  sanitation,   educational  and
productive stimulation deficiencies of the population at risk.
That it has been established that the country maintains
elevated infant and maternal mortality rates in rural and
periurban   areas,  due   to   the  nutritional   deficiencies,
infectious diseases, parasites, anemias, respiratory diseases,
and complications during pregnancy, labor and puerperium; whose
service  coverage  and  low   accessibility  to  these  do  not
guarantee an appropriate health protection.
That  the  malnutrition  of  the   newborn  starts  during
pregnancy, a situation that is aggravated with the suppression
of milk consumption after the period of maternal lactation.
The Fund for Social Investment, as a public entity,
dependent of the Presidency of the Republic, whose objective is
the financing of projects in the areas of health and education,
in favor of the most impoverished sectors of the population,
has  earmarked  resources   towards  the  implementation  of  a
nutritional  program   in  accordance  with   the  governmental
politics.
That  the  'Junta  Nacional  de  Solidaridad y  Desarrollo
Social" dependent of the Presidency of the Republic, has been
given the responsibility, by law, of carrying out the actions
in favor of the children and women, having started up the
Integral Program for Child Development in the periferal urban
areas of the country.
Edif AcxWia N&cdn.3l
Cailla 5960
Teldfonos 376862-66
3ISOC72 * 350123
350489 * 350233
Fax 366763
La Paz. MolaI'



-75 -                                     Ae 
menor. -   -                         ~~~~~~Annex S
0  N AM  FA   Presidencia de la Republicma
ONA /M FA  Organismo nocional del menor. mujer y familia
IN MINISTERIAL COUNCIL
DECREES:
FIRST  ARTICLE.-   The  "Nacional Complementary  Nutrition
Program"  is   established  for  two  hundred  and  forty  five
thousand  pregnant and  lactating   mothers,  and  four hundred
thousand children between the ages of six months and three
years  of  age,  including   pregnant  women  detected  in  the
"Integrated    Program  for  Child  Development",  by  providing
enriched milk and special nourishment that supplement the
nutritional deficiency of mothers and children, in order to
guarantee their normal development.
SECOND   ARTICLE.-  The  "Integrated    Program  for  Child
Development" is consolidated, guaranteeing covering two hundred
thousand children between the ages of six months and six years
of age, and one hundred thousand women, with the opening and
functioning  of thirteen  thousand home  day care  centers that
attend children and women daily.
FOURTH    ARTICLE.-   The   Minister   of   Planning    and
Coordination,  will   program  the  destination    of  resources
generated by the monetization of food, nutritional assistance,
technical  assistance,  financial  cooperation,   and/or  other
sources, towards the "National Complementary Nutrition Program"
and  the    "Integrated  Program   for  Child  Development"   in
accordance with the following schedule:
National               Integrated
Complementary          Program for
Nutrition Program   Child Development
1995 Administration:        Sus.  5,0001000.-   Sus.  1,200,000.-
1996 Administration:        Sus.  8,000,000.-   Sus.  3,200,000.-
1997 Administration:        Sue. 11,000,000.-   Sus.  6,700,000.-
1998 Administration:        Su.s  14,000,000.-   Sus. 15,600,000.-
1999 Administration:        Sus. 17,000,000.-   Sus. 23,300,000.-
2000 Administration:         Sus- 20,000,000.-
FOUJRTH ARTICLE.- The Fund for Social Investment will be
responsable  for  the  financing  of   the  projects  initially
contemplated in the National Complementary Nutrition Program
from the promulgation of the present Decree, and of the
counterpart for the first 24 months of execution, guaranteeing
the continuity of the Program with the resources established in
the preceeding Article.
FIFTH ARTICLE.- The "Junta Nacional de Solidaridad y
Desarrollo Social" should anticipate in its preparations for
the Integrated Program for Child Development the totality of
the institutional resources from agencies of cooperation, from
Non-Governmental Organizations, private development
Edif. Loteria Naciooal
CaslIla 5560
Teklfonos 376862-66
350072 * 350123
350489 * 350233
Fax 366763
La Paz, Sulivia



-76 -                                Annex 8
Presidencia de la ReuCjblIca
OC N MFA    0rganisno nocionol del menor. mujer y aml4ca
institutions, and *ntities of the  comimunity, necessary for the
its establishment and functioning.
The Ministers of State in the Ministry of Planning and
Coordination, along  with those  from  the Ministry  of  Social
Asitance and  Public Health,  as well  as the  Fund for  Social
Investment, and the "Junta National de Solidaridad y Desarrollo
Social"  are to be in  charge of the  execution and fulfillment
of the present Supreme Decree.
It is given in the Governmental Palace, in the city of La
Paz,  on the  fifth day  of  the month  of  March, of  nineteen
hundred and ninety three.
FDO. JAIME PAZ ZAMORA
Fdo. Ronald McLean Abaroa
Fdo. Carlos A. Saavedra Bruno
Fdo. Gustavo FernAndez Saavedra
Fdo. Alberto Saenz Klinsky
Fdo. Roberto P-ea Rodriguez
Fdo. Samuel Doria Medina Auza
Fdo. Pablo Zegarra Arana
Fdo. Olga Saavedra de Querejazu
Fdo. Carlos Aponte Pinto
Fdo. Fernando Campero Prudencio
Fdo. Eusebio Gironda Cabrera
Fdo. Carlos Dabdoub Arrien
Fdo. Alvaro Rejas Villarroel
Fdo. Oswaldo Antezana Vaca Diez
Fdo. Herbert Muller Costas
Fdo. Fernando Kieffer GuzmAn
Fdo. Jos* Luis Lupo Flores
Edif. Louda NacionmA
Crnila 5960
T*donos 376862-66
350072 * 350123
350489 * 350233
fan 36-6763
La Pu. lodi 



- 77 -                                                          Annex 9
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
i    ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
PROYECTO INTEGRAL DE DESARROLLO INFANTIL (PIDI)
(CENTRAL OFFICE)
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
PRESIDENT
ONAMFA        I
_~~~~
EXECU IVE
DIRECTOR       1
ONAMFA                                                               I
NTIRNAL
l                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 1MGe
AUDI'TINtl
I                                                                                                   ONAMPA
I                                                                                  I      .      .      I.. 
MANAGERC OF                                           MANAGER Of PROCG
I   | AOllINISTRATION                                            FOR CHILDREN,
AND FlNANCE                                           WOMEN AND FAMILY
I~~~l I
I~~                                                                 I
I ~~ I
I ~~ I
I ~~ I
NATIO NAL
COOtt I MAYOR
NMNAEMCENT                                                      INTERNAL
|M LTI                                                            NGAUDITING    ---------------------I
I                                        r YSTIEM
HIALT" ANO                                        ~~~~~~~~~~COMMUIP"TV
NUTRtTION                             l L                         OU  ttRAACH
CtTOGIONAL
CNIt    ATOI   ----------@------------------------------------...... ___
COODINAO



Annex 9
-78 -
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGAN I ZAT I ONAL STRUCTURE
PROYECTO INTEGRAL DE DESARROLLO INFANTIL (PIDI) (
, ;                   ~~~~(REGIONAL OFFICES)
NATIONAL
COORDINATOR
PlD'
REGIONAL
COORPDINATOR
P101
NAA6 EMENT
lN  NAAT.NON
SYSTEM
|AOMI ISTNA- |                      HEALTH ANO                                        ONNT 
|  T1ON    l0 l  NUTRITION   l                       l   EDUCATION l        lCOMMUNT    I TY
UNIT        NUTRI I                  EDU                   ~~~~~~~~~OUTREACH



- 79 -                    Annex 10
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STUDIES TO BE CARRIED OUT BY ONAMFA
Project Component/                         Agreed Completion
Study                                      Date
Sector Policy Development and Management Strengthening
Food Security and Nutrition          June 30, 1995
Extension of Child Development       June 30, 1996
Services to Rural Areas
Analysis of ONAMFA's Institutional   June 30, 1996
Capacity
Refinement of Child Development      June 30, 1996
Measures
Design of a Five-Year Information    June 30, 1996
System Plan
Monitoring and Evaluation
Impact of the Project on Women       June 30, 1996
(Interim Report)
June 30, 1998
(Final Report)
Impact of the Project on Community   June 30, 1996
Development                           (Interim Report)
June 30, 1998
(Final Report)
Project Cost-Effectiveness          June 30, 1998
Project Impact on Schooling and      June 30, 1998
School Performance



BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
(USS milhon equivalent)
Project Element               PreProject                      Project Years                      Total
1       2        3        4        5       6      Payment             Remarks
Creditrlrnng
Sign/EffecVClse 
Goods
Vehices                                     0.52     0.00    0.00     0.40     0.00     0.00     0.92  ICB
Office Technolgy                            0.57    0.00     0.00     0.25     0.00     0.00     0.82   ICB
Fumiture & Equipment                        1.32    2.29     3.90     6.41     8.36    10.04    32.32   ICB/LCB/Shopping
Food Commodities                            1.10    2.55     4.94     8.85    14.11    19.59    51.44   Not IDA Financed
Rehabiaeion Fund                              0.00     0.29    0.43     0.66     0.69     0.61     2.86   Mixed Loan/Grant
00
Consuncs                                                                                                                                 .
Studes & Technical Assistance               0.61    0.88     0.83     0.75     0.89     0.60     4.56
Extrnal Supervsion                          0.11    0.17     0.31     0.52     0.74     0.94     2.79
Sal-rie & Operatng Expenditures
Civi Service Support                        0.36     0.37    0.38     0.39     0.40     0.41     2.31
Salaries                                    0.64    0.78     0.98     1.29     1.43     1.46     6.58
Adminitratve Costs                          0.36     0.47    0.52     0.64     0.69     0.74     3.42
Stipnds to the Caregivers                   0.37    0.86     1.67     2.99     4.76     6.71     17.36
Opatng Costs of Centers                     0.19    0.43     0.83     1.49     2.38     3.36     8.68   Beneficiary Contributons
Healfth Fund                                0.03    0.06     0.12     0.22     0.35     0.51     1.29
Training                                    0.35     0.36    0.36     0.52     0.53     0.54     2.66
Miscellaneous
PPF Relncin                                 0.75                                                 0.75
Other Prepa_in Finncing                      1.44                                                  1.44
TOTAL                                         8.90     9.51    15.27    25.38    35.33    45.81    140.20
(IDA Financed)              (5.30)   (5.14)   (6.94)  (10.24)  (11.78)  (11.30)   (50.70) _



- 81 -
Annex 12, Table 1
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Forecast
IDA Fiscal Year     Disbursement               Cumulative
and Semester        Semester    Cumulative      as %      Semester
(US$ million)              of Total
1994(a)
2nd (Jan '94-June '94)   3.02          3.02          5.96         1
1995
1st (July '94-Dec '94)   2.28         5.30           10.45        2
2nd (Jan '95-June '95)   2.57          7.87          15.52        3
1996
1st (July '95-Dec '95)   2.57         10.44          20.59        4
2nd (Jan '96-June '96)   3.47         13.91          27.44        5
1997
1st (July '96-Dec '96)   3.47         17.38          34.28        6
2nd (Jan '97-June '97)   5.12         22.50          44.38        7
1998
1st (July '97-Dec '97)   5.12         27.62          54.48        8
2nd (Jan '98-June '98)   5.89         33.51          66.09        9
1999
1st (July '98-Dec '98)   5.89         39.40          77.71        10
2nd (Jan '99-June '99)   5.65         45.05          88.86        11
2000
1st (July '99-Dec '99)   5.65         50.70         100.00        12
Closing Date: December 31, 1993
(a) PPF Refinancing included



- 82 -                         Annex 12, Table 2
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CIILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Allocations
CATEGORY                   AMOUNT                   PERCENTAGE
--(US$ equivalent)--
1. Rehabilitation Fund                 2.73          100% of eligible expenditures
2. Goods                              26.24          100% of foreign expenditures and
80% of local expenditures
3. Consultancies
a. Studies, Technical               5.49           100% of eligible expenditures
Assistance and Training
b. External Supervision             0.90           100% in 1993-94; 75% in 1995;
60% in 1996; and 25% in 1997 -
1999.
4. Health Fund and Stipends to         7.63          100% in 1993-94; 85% in 1995;
Caregivers                                        75% in 1996; 60% in 1997; 46%
in 1998; and 17 % in 1999.
5. Civil Service Support               1.05          87% in 1993-94; 72% in 1995;
6. Incremental Salaries for            3.65          54% in 1996; 35% in 1997; 21 %
Project Implementation &                          in 1998; and 7% in 1999 of
Administrative Cost                               eligible expenditures for Civil
Service Support, Incremental
Salaries for Project
Implementation & Administrative
Cost
7. PPF Refinancing                     0.75          100% of eligible expenditures
8. Unallocated                         2.26
Total                                 50.70



- 83 -
Annex 13
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION SCH ULE AND DIPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
Supervision Schedule
Semi-annual supervision missions are anticipated for this project, and
are likely to take place in December and June each year. The first year of
implementation (CY94) might require an additional mission in September
1994. In addition, the first supervision mission (around the expected time of
credit effectiveness in December/January 1994 will be the Project's Launch
(2 weeks), and might also include a disbursements officer. The total annual
number of staff/consultant weeks required are:
Year l
TIask Manager                         12          20
Operations                            5            7
Health/Nutrition Specialist           4            6
Early Childhood Education Sp.         4            5
Social Marketing Specialist           2            3
Financial Management Sp.              1            2
Procurement and/or Disbursement Sp.   2            1
Tbtal                               30          44



- 84 -                  Annex 13
Implementation Indicators
End of Calendar Year
Coverage Targets        1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
Number of Day-Care
Centers Functioning     703  1,441  2,617  4,489  6,579  8,670
Number of Children
Enrolled          10,545 21,615 39,255 67,335 98,685 130,050
(of which children
under 2 years of age) (2,109) (4,323) (7,851)(13,467)(19,737) (26,010)
Number of Caregivers    1,687  3,458 6,280 10,774 15,790  20,808
Selection of Children Enrolled in Day-Care Centers
All new children enrolled in day-care centers will be selected
according to the following criteria, in order of importance:
(i) Malnourished
(ii) Living in single parent households
(iii) Parents employed and, thus, child at risk of abandonment
(iv) From families with high parity, i.e., with 5 or more children
The percentage of new enrollees meeting each of the above criterion
would be reviewed.



- 85 -
Annex L3
Compliance with Key Operational/Technical Norms of the Project
Indicator                                          Target
Percentage of normal or mildly malnourished       100 percent for
children enrolled in the day-care centers         all years of project
who have received weight & height control visits  implementation
at the referral health center once per month
Percentage of children who are mildly malnourished  100 percent for
and not gaining weight between control visits,    all years of
and moderate and severely malnourished children   project
who have received weight & height control visits  implementation
once per week at the referral health center
Percentage of malnourished children enrolled in day-care    100 percent for
centers who are under medical treatment who have received  all years of
medical control visits by a doctor at the referral health  project
center twice per month                                implementation
Percentage distribution of children enrolled in day-  Over time, the
care centers according to the degree of malnutrition  proportion of
(i.e., mild, moderate and severe)                    children
malnourished,
particularly of
moderate and
severe degree,
would decline
Percentage of children enrolled in the day-care centers  100 percent for
for six months or more who have received their full  all years of
immunization coverage                                project
implementation
Percentage distribution of children enrolled in day-  Over time, the
care centers according to their level on the Child   proportion of
Development Scale                                    children at the
lowest levels
would
decline
Percentage of children enrolled in day-care centers  100 percent for
who, upon reaching 6 years of age, enter primary school   all years of
project
implementation



- 86 -                           Annex 13
Costs of Day-Care Center Implementation
Average investment cost per day-care center for:
(i) initial opening
(ii) replacement of furniture and equipment
Average monthly operational costs per day-care center
Average monthly project cost per beneficiary



- 87 -
Annex 14
BOLIVIA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies in the Sector
A. 1. "Early Childhood Care and Education: Evidence of Long-
Term Benefits and Implications for Developing Countries",
David Weikart, September 1992.
A.2.  "Evaluation of the Early Child Development Project in
Colombia", by Nelson Ortiz, September 1992.
A.3.  "Evaluation of the Early Child Development Project in
Colombia", Robert G. Myers, May 18, 1993.
A.4.  "Bolivian Social Strategy", CONAPSO, Ministry of Planning
and Coordination, September 1991.
A.5.  "Analysis of the Situation of Children and Women in Bolivia",
UNICEF, La Paz, Bolivia, 1992.
A.6. "Ten-year Plan of Action for the Bolivian Children",
Presidency of the Republic, December 1991.
A.7.  "Preliminary National Census 1992", Ministry of Planning and
Coordination, Bolivia, July 1992.
A.8. "Maternal and Child Health in Bolivia - Report on the In-depth
Demographic and Health Survey in Bolivia, 1989", Institute
for Resource Development/Macro Systems Inc., April 1991.
A.9.  "Principles and Guidelines to Strengthen Programmes of Early
Childhood Development and Learning"; The Eighth Meeting of
the Consultative Group on Early Childhood Care and
Development, Washington DC, the World Bank, March 31 -
April 2, 1993; by Robert G. Myers.
A. 10. "Towards a Comprehensive Strategy for the Development of
the Young Child", UNICEF, March 1993.



- 88 -                 Annex 14
A. 1. "Estimates of the Urban Poverty in Bolivia", UDAPSO,
February 1993.
A. 12. "Early Child Development - Summary Report", UNICEF,
Innocenti Global Seminar, Italy, October 1989.
A. 13. "Early Childhood Development Programs in Latin America:
Toward Definition of an Investment Strategy", by Robert G.
Myers, the World Bank, August 1992.
B. Selected Documents and Reports Relating to the Project
B. 1.  "The Integrated Program of Child Development (PIDI)", Junta
Nacional de Solidaridad y Desarrollo Social, April 1993.
B.2.  "Criteria for the Choice of Cities and Areas in the Cities to
Open the Day-Care Centers in Each Region", Junta Nacional
de Solidaridad y Desarrollo Social, September 1992.
B.3.  Supreme Decree No. 09922 Creating the Junta Nacional de
Solidaridad y Desarrollo Social; Gaceta Oficial de Bolivia No.
1309.
B.4.  Law No. 1403, Code of the Minor, December 18, 1992.
B.5.  Supreme Decree No. 23469 Complementing the Law No. 1403
of December 18, 1992, Code of the Minor.
B.6.  Supreme Decree No. 23415 Creating the National Program of
Food Supplementation, March 15, 1993.
B.7.  "Evaluation of the PIDI Pilot Project", La Paz, April 15,
1993.
B.8.  PIDI Administrative Manual, April 1993.
B.9.  PIDI Technical Manual and Emergencies Manual, April 1993.
B. 10. PIDI - Information and Evaluation System, April 1993.



- 89 -
Annex 14
C. Selected Working Papers
C. 1. "Multisectoral Nutrition Planning: A Synthesis of Experience",
F. James Levinson, December 1989.
C.2.  "The Integrated Program of Child Development (PIDI): A
Rationale for Investing and Analysis of the Proposal", Robert
G. Myers, October 14, 1992.
C.3.  Back-to-Office Report of Ms. Judith L. Evans concerning
Training within the PIDI Project, December 16, 1992.
C.4.  Back-to-Office Report of Mr. Jean-Paul Faguet on the Credit
Component and Procurement Procedures for the Integrated
Child Development Project (PIDI), December 16, 1992.
C.5.  Back-to-Office Report of Mr. Angel Gonzalez-Malaxechevarria
on the Financial Management Evaluation of the Junta Nacional
de Solidaridad y Desarrollo Social, February 8, 1993.
C.6.  Back-to-Office Report of Mr. Robert G. Myers Assessing the
Overall Soundness of the Project's Technical Components,
Analyzing the Results of the Pilot Phase, Reviewing the Child
Assessment Tools, and Finalizing the Monitoring and
Evaluation Component, May 12, 1993.
C.7.  "The Integrated Program of Child Development (PIDI) -
Monitoring and Evaluation Component", Marcelo Mercado
Lora, January 1993.
C.8.  Back-to-Office Report of Ms. Julie Van Domelen on the
Institutional and Management Structure of the "Junta Nacional
de Solidaridad y Desarrollo Social (JNSDS), January 19, 1993.
C.9.  "Addressing Food-Related Issues in the PIDI Project", by F.
James Levinson, January 1993.
C. 10. Back-to-Office Report of Julie Van Domelen on Institutional
Development, April 12, 1993.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 24922
BO L I V IA
INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
 0   Project Cities
()   National Capital
~~~ G~~~~uayaramerin                        0     Cte
oCabija            ,4 Rib raltz <                      -        Department Boundaries
PERU  -f\J                        \5     BRAZILInternational Boundaries
0 g                                ASanta Ana De YcumM
{      1                    ~~~~~~~~~~Trinidad                    )  
5wl ix tz iEl AltJ
o    100                                      ERU                  BRAZltSan Ignacio Velsco
TiiLa       MLe BAOL Mineros                                                 V
0vch         100 c      200bambPa
g             \   O2)~~~~~Scabob             Montero 
A  A l' OPuncito  rJNarne    Pc\
f  9  Orur  faollo         rne seSante Cruz oRoboree 
\   HuanuniO  VO  4   4  9  11, >, | \                     ~~~~~~~~Puerio Suore 
by O> Qucre r
CHILE                                    of The 
o    <)1  )S      tt[1  {115(I                         PARAGUAY\
dod t. e srooor,s s  monteserr
\        ~~~Tupiza0         0;11-           
o Vi pzo   noTarijr  on e
R T A ARGENTINA
s of oAreter.rora of Map
Kilometers 0    100   200   300                          PE                  B R A Z  I L           f
Miles                   IrBoLrVIA,,
0         100        200                         \ -  eLa Paz                            1993
Th,s -ap h., b-e prepored    iocva; 207X   _
by The WorId 8-nk s tb7ff5                   \vf
G, up he b.denornoron usd hr                         }
f ThsmWrldno mplyG.. nte{/RGENTINA    
.7to  -foy t-frtory or -ny     Jh/p
JUNE 1 993



