Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2531 BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Integrated Child Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 2, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2531 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 2, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from bilateral and multilateral aid and 
development organizations loans and grants to assist in the carrying out of the 
Project (the External Assistance) on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements 
to be entered into among the Borrower and such organizations;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Administrative Manual" means the ONAMFA's (as hereinafter defined) 
Manual Administrativo, dated May 1993, approved by the ONAMFA's Administrative 
Resolution 1010/93, of June 1, 1993, as the same may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Association;
(b)
"CDD" means the ONAMFA's (as hereinafter defined) Child Development 
Department, an administrative structure created for the purposes of implementing the 
PIDI (as hereinafter defined) and the Project;
(c)
"CDD Regional Office" means an administrative structure under CDD to be 
created pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement for the purposes of 
coordinating and supervising the implementation of the PIDI (as hereinafter defined) 
and of Part B of the Project in a particular region;
(d)
"Civil Servant Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.04 (d) of this Agreement;
(e)
"CSRP" means the Borrower's Civil Service Reform Program,  a program 
created by the Borrower's Decreto Supremo 23336, of November 1992;
(f)
"CSRP-ONAMFA Arrangements" means the arrangements between the Borrower's 
Ministry of Finance and ONAMFA (as hereafter defined), dated January 18, 1993, 
providing for the incorporation of ONAMFA in the CSRP;
(g)
"Day-care Center" means each of the households in a community 
participating in the carrying out of Part B of the Project;
(h)
"External Supervisor" means any of the persons to be contracted pursuant 
to Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement;
(i)
"Health Fund" means the fund to be created by the Borrower, through 
ONAMFA (as hereafter defined), pursuant to Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement;
(j)
"Health Grant" means any of the grants to be made by the Borrower, 
through ONAMFA (as hereinafter defined), pursuant to Section 3.07 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(k)
"IHS" means an integrated household survey carried out annually by the 
Borrower;
(l)
"Implementation Indicators" means the Project's implementation indicators 
set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(m)
"Manuals" means the Administrative Manual and the Operations Manual (as 
hereinafter defined) or any of them;
(n)
"ONAMFA" means Organismo Nacional del Menor, Mujer y Familia, created by 
the Borrower's law 1403, of December 18, 1992 (Codigo del Menor) and regulated by the 
Borrower's Supreme Decree 23469, of April 7, 1993;
(o)
"ONAMFA-Health Center Arrangements" means each of the arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement;
(p)
"ONAMFA-MPSSP Arrangement" means the arrangement dated June 1, 1993 
between ONAMFA and the Borrower's Ministerio de Prevision Social y Salud Publica, 
providing for the delivery of health services by the latter to children in the 
Day-care Centers, their pregnant mothers and pregnant caregivers of the Day-care 
Centers;
(q)
"ONAMFA Positions" means the managerial and technical staff positions in 
ONAMFA listed in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(r)
"Operations Manual" means the ONAMFA's Manual de Normas y Procedimientos, 
dated May 1993, approved by the ONAMFA's Administrative Resolution 1009/93, of June 1, 
1993, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Association;
Page  3
(s)
"PIDI" means the Borrower's Proyecto Integral de Desarrollo Infantil, the 
program to provide integrated child development services approved by the Borrower's 
Supreme Decree 23415, of March 5, 1993;
(t)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
August 21, 1992 and August 26, 1992 between the Borrower and the Association;
(u)
"Rehabilitation Fund" means the revolving fund to be created by the 
Borrower, through ONAMFA, pursuant to Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement, to provide 
Rehabilitation Grant-Loans;
(v)
"Rehabilitation Grant-Loan" means each of the joint grants and loans 
referred to in Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement;
(w)
"Rehabilitation Agreement" means each of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.08 (b) of this Agreement; and
(x)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million, eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 35,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2003 and ending April 1, 2033. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2013 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The President of ONAMFA, or any person thereunto authorized in 
writing by such representative, is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through ONAMFA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, social, health, nutrition, 
educational and environmental practices, the Manuals and the Implementation Indicators 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to its obligations under paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower shall: (i) enter into arrangements with ONAMFA, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
the purposes of the carrying out of the Project through ONAMFA; (ii) make available 
the proceeds of the Credit to ONAMFA, on a timely basis, as budgetary allocations; and 
(iii) take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, to ONAMFA required for the carrying out of 
the Project and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Project through ONAMFA.
Section 3.02. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 above, the 
Borrower shall allocate in its annual budget for the calendar years 1994 and 
thereafter, for expenditures under the Project, funds equivalent to not less than the 
following minimum amounts:
(a)
$1,039,000 for calendar year 1994;
 
Page  5
(b)
$2,287,000 for calendar year 1995;
 
(c)
$5,380,000 for calendar year 1996;
 
(d)
$10,580,000 for calendar year 1997;
 
(e)
$17,780,000 for calendar year 1998;
 
(f)
$27,730,000 for calendar year 1999; and
 
(g)
$33,200,000 for calendar year 2000 and thereafter.
 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make its best efforts to obtain the External 
Assistance.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through ONAMFA, shall:
(a)
establish regional offices (the CDD Regional Offices) in a manner and 
under a timetable satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
maintain the CDD with adequate staff, structure, functions and budget, 
all satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
employ consultants (the External Supervisors) in accordance with the 
Administrative Manual, with qualifications and experience and under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, for the purposes of supervising the 
implementation of Part B of the Project together with the CDD Regional Offices; and
(d)
enter into agreements (the Civil-Servant Agreements), in terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, with the persons selected to fill in the 
ONAMFA Positions, whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the 
Association, for purposes of regulating the employment of such persons by ONAMFA under 
the CSRP.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall supervise the implementation of Part B of the 
Project through the CDD Regional Offices and the External Supervisors in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with the Operations Manual.
Section 3.07. (a) Not later than March 31, 1994, the Borrower, through ONAMFA, 
shall establish and thereafter maintain a fund (the Health Fund) under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, to provide assistance in the payment of 
laboratory tests and treatment of infections of children in Day-care Centers with 
moderate and severe malnutrition.
(b)
Whenever necessary and in accordance with the provisions of the Manuals, 
the Borrower, through ONAMFA, shall make Health Grants out of the proceeds of the 
Health Fund in a manner satisfactory to the Association. The aggregate amount of 
Health Grants made during a month shall not exceed an amount equivalent to $5 
multiplied by the number of Day-care Centers in operation during such month.
Section 3.08. (a) Not later than March 31, 1994, the Borrower, through ONAMFA, 
shall establish and thereafter maintain a fund (the Rehabilitation Fund) under terms 
and conditions satis- factory to the Association, to provide financing (Rehabilitation 
Grant-Loans) for purposes of rehabilitating Day-care Centers in order that they meet 
the minimum standards of security, space and services for day-care.
(b)
Whenever necessary and in accordance with the provisions of the Manuals, 
the Borrower, through ONAMFA, shall enter into agreements (the Rehabilitation 
Agreements), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, with the 
owners of Day-care Centers for purposes of providing Rehabilitation Grant-Loans. The 
aggregate amount of Rehabilitation Grant-Loans made for each Day-care Center shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $500.
Section 3.09. The Borrower, through ONAMFA, shall, under Parts A.1 and C of the 
Project:
(a)
carry out the studies set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement in 
Page  6
accordance with the timetable therein set forth, under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Association;
(b)
promptly upon the completion of each of such studies, furnish to the 
Association the results of such studies and their recommendations, for review and 
comments;
(c)
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 90 days after the 
date in which the Association sends, pursuant to paragraph (b) above, its comments to 
ONAMFA, programs or plans of action, satisfactory to the Association, in respect of 
each such study; and
(d)
implement each of the programs or plans of action referred to in 
paragraph (c) above, in a manner and under a timetable satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower, through ONAMFA, shall enter into arrangements (the 
ONAMFA-Health Center Arrangements), in a manner and under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, with the health centers of the regions in which Part 
B of the Project shall be implemented, providing for medical assistance under Parts 
B.6 and B.7 of the Project for children in the Day-care Centers, their pregnant 
mothers and pregnant caregivers of the Day-care Centers in the relevant region.
Section 3.11. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 9.07 
(a) (iii) and (c) of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through ONAMFA, shall 
furnish to the Association not later than March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 
31 of each year of Project execution, progress reports on the Project, of such scope 
and detail as the Association may reasonably request. The quarterly report of 
September 30 (the annual report), shall include, inter alia: (i) an assessment of the 
overall progress in the implementation of the Project, including the Implementation 
Indicators; (ii) a detailed work plan for the upcoming year; and (iii) an updated 
financial plan for the three years succeeding that of such report, all satisfactory to 
the Association.
Section 3.12. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 9.07 
(a) (iii) and (c) of the General Conditions and unless otherwise agreed by the 
Association, the Borrower shall, and shall cause ONAFMA to:
(a)
Not later than November 30 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, carry out annual Project reviews with the Association, such reviews to be 
based on the reports referred to in Section 3.11 of this Agreement.
(b)
Not later than November 30, 1996, hold a review with the Association 
(mid-term review), to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the PIDI, the Project, 
their implementation, including the Implementation Indicators, and financial 
sustainability, and the Borrower's investment plan for the social sector.
(c)
If as a result of any of the above reviews, the Association shall have 
determined that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the attainment of 
its objectives is not satisfactory, promptly take or cause to be taken, without 
limitation or restriction to any of the Association's rights under this Agreement, all 
such remedial action, satisfactory to the Association, as shall be necessary for the 
efficient execution of the Project or for the attainment of its objectives.
Section 3.13. Not later than March 31, 1994, the Borrower, through ONAMFA, 
shall:
(a)
establish and implement an evaluation system based on the IHS, 
satisfactory to the Association, to evaluate the impact of the PIDI and the Project; 
and
(b)
establish and implement a monitoring system, satisfactory to the 
Association, to monitor the implementation of the PIDI and the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation
Indicators.
Section 3.14. The Borrower, through ONAMFA, shall:
(a)
open and maintain the Day-care Centers in accordance with the Manuals, in 
a manner and under a timetable satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
select and maintain the caregivers for the Day-care Centers and cause to 
Page  7
be provided financial support to them in accordance with the Manuals and in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)
select the children for the Day-care Centers based on criteria set forth 
in the Operations Manual, giving priority to those malnourished, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, or cause ONAMFA to, maintain records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, or shall cause ONAMFA, to:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Association monthly certified statements of the 
Special Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts as well as the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall, or 
shall cause ONAMFA to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Association has received the audit reports for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
reports of such audits contain a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditures submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
(d)
The Borrower shall, or shall cause ONAMFA to, ensure that the audit 
reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section contain a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the CSRP criteria for selection of personnel was observed 
in the fulfillment f the ONAMFA Positions during the relevant year.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
ONAMFA shall have failed to perform in accordance with the arrangements 
Page  8
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i).
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that ONAMFA will be able to perform in accordance with the 
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i).
(c)
The Borrower's law 1403, of December 1992 (Codigo del Menor), or the CSRP 
or the Borrower's Supreme Decrees 22964, of November 1991, 23415, of March 1993 or 
23469, of April 1993 or the ONAMFA-MPSSP Arrangement or the Manuals or the CSRP-ONAMFA 
Arrangements shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as 
to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project or the ability of ONAMFA to perform in accordance with the 
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i).
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ONAMFA or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, any event specified in paragraphs 
(a) or (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has entered into the 
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i).
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the arrangements referred 
to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) have been duly executed.
Section 6.03. The date May 3, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance and Economic Development and the Secretary of Finance of the Borrower are 
severally designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Economic Development and/or
   Secretary of Finance
Ministerio de Hacienda y Desarrollo Economico
Secretaria Nacional de Hacienda
Cajon Postal - Ministerio de Finanzas
Calle Bolivar esq. Indaburo No. 688
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANZA
2617 (FINANZA BV)
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  9
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Andres Petricevic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Rehabilitation             1,930,000        100% of the
    Grant-Loans to                              amounts disbursed
    Day-care Centers                            under a Rehabi-
                                                litation Grant-
                                                Loan
(2) Goods                     18,520,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(3) (a) Consultants' ser-      3,880,000        100%
        vices, except
        for Part B.8
        of the Project,
        and training
    (b) Consultants'             640,000        100% for expen-
        services for                            ditures made
        Part B.8 of                             during 1993 and
        the Project                             1994; 75% for
Page  10
                                                expenditures made
                                                during 1995; 60%
                                                for expenditures
                                                made during 1996;
                                                25% for expen-
                                                ditures made
                                                during 1997 and
                                                thereafter
(4) Health Grants              5,390,000        100% for expen-
    and stipends                                ditures made
    to  the                                     under Health
    caregivers                                  Grants and for
                                                the payment of
                                                stipends to the
                                                caregivers during
                                                1993 and 1994;
                                                85% for expen-
                                                ditures made
                                                during 1995;
                                                75% for expen-
                                                ditures made
                                                during 1996;
                                                60% for expen-
                                                ditures made
                                                during 1997;
                                                46% for expen-
                                                ditures made
                                                during 1998;
                                                17% for expen-
                                                ditures made
                                                during 1999
                                                and thereafter
(5) Incremental                  750,000        87% for expen-
    salaries of the                             ditures made
    ONAMFA Positions                            under a Civil
                                                Servant Agreement
                                                during 1993 and
                                                and 1994; 72% for
                                                expenditures made
                                                during 1995; 54%
                                                for expenditures
                                                made during
                                                1996; 35% for
                                                expenditures
                                                made during
                                                1997; 21% for
                                                expenditures
                                                made during
                                                1998; 7% for
                                                expenditures
                                                made during
                                                1999 and
                                                thereafter
(6) Incremental                2,580,000        87% for expen-
    administrative                              ditures made
    costs                                       during 1993
                                                and 1994; 72%
                                                for expenditures
                                                made during
                                                1995; 54% for
                                                expenditures
                                                made during
                                                1996; 35% for
                                                expenditures
                                                made during
                                                1997; 21% for
                                                expenditures
                                                made during
                                                1998; 7% for
Page  11
                                                expenditures
                                                made during
                                                1999 and
                                                thereafter
(7) Refunding of                 530,000        amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02(c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated                1,580,000
         TOTAL                35,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "incremental administrative costs" means the incremental 
administrative costs incurred by ONAMFA for the purposes and as a result of the 
implementation of the Project, including the salaries for the positions created by 
ONAMFA in the CDD and the CDD Regional Offices and excluding the salaries for the 
ONAMFA Positions;
(d)
the term "stipends to the caregivers" means the financial support to be 
provided to the caregivers of the Day-care Centers in accordance with Section 3.14(b) 
of this Agreement; and
(e)
the term "incremental salaries of the ONAMFA Positions" means the 
incremental salaries of the ONAMFA Positions due to their incorporation to the CSRP.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) through (6) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 above 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 1, 
1993;
(b)
payments for food;
 
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) of the table in 
paragraph 1 hereof unless the respective Rehabilitation Agreement has been signed;
(d)
payments made for expenditures in relation to a Day-care Center in a 
given region unless the External Supervisor for such region has been contracted and 
the CDD Regional Office of such region has been established;
(e)
payments made for expenditures in relation to a Day-care Center in a 
given region unless the ONAMFA-Health Center Agreement for such region has been 
signed;
(f)
payments made for expenditures under Category (5) of the table in 
paragraph 1 hereof, unless the respective Civil Servant Agreement has been signed; and
(g)
payments for operational costs of the Day-care Centers other than 
stipends to the caregivers.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the PIDI as part of the Borrower's 
efforts to alleviate poverty and increase human capital investment in Bolivia by 
expanding coverage and improving the quality of targeted child development programs in 
poor urban and peri-urban areas. More specifically, the Project aims to: (a) improve 
Page  12
children's readiness to succeed in school and beyond by facilitating their physical, 
emotional, social and cognitive development; (b) enhance the status of women by 
increasing their employment opportunities and by expanding their knowledge of 
education, health and nutrition; and (c) increase community and private sector 
participation in the social development process. A secondary objective of the Project 
is to enhance the Borrower's capacity to formulate and evaluate social policy.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Sector Policy Development and Management Strengthening
 
1.
Establishment of broad policy foundations in the areas of food security and 
nutrition, extension of early child development services to rural areas and refinement 
of measures to assess child development including:
(a)
the determination of priorities to coordinate food security and nutrition 
interventions, rationalize food aid and integrate agriculture production and social 
sector programs; and
(b)
the development of investment models and pilot projects for the extension 
of early childhood development activities to rural areas.
2.
Strengthening of ONAMFA through:
 
(a)
the modernization  of its organization and the provision of training to 
its staff;
(b)
the strengthening of the CDD and the establishment and strengthening of 
the CDD Regional Offices;
(c)
the installation of computer equipment, implementation of information 
systems in the main administrative sections of its central office and in the CDD 
Regional Offices, and the design of a five-year information system plan; and
(d)
the inclusion of ONAMFA in the CSRP.
 
Part B:
Service Delivery Support
 
Delivery of childhood development services in poor urban and peri-urban areas by 
implementing a non-formal, home-based early childhood development model in 
approximately 34 cities, involving the care of about 15 children by two or three 
caregivers per Day-care Center, including:
1.
technical and administrative support to the PIDI and the refinement of the 
mechanisms for the targeting of beneficiaries and the selection of the caregivers;
2.
support to and training of the caregivers in the delivery of services and 
training of members of the parents' associations in related administrative functions;
3.
rehabilitation of Day-care Centers through the Rehabilitation Fund;
 
4.
equipping of Day-care Centers;
 
5.
provision of nutrition supplements and early education to children in the 
Day-care Centers;
6.
provision of health services to children and the establishment of the Health 
Fund;
7.
improvement of access to health and family planning for pregnant women with 
children in the Day-care Centers and for the caregivers; and
8.
supervision of the services delivered under this Part of the Project.
 
Part C:
Monitoring and Evaluation
 
1.
Implementation of a monitoring system for the PIDI and the Project to provide 
implementation performance indicators including Project inputs, process indicators and 
administrative and financial information.
Page  13
2.
Implementation of an evaluation system to assess the development of children and 
women supported by the Project, and of related community activities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $ 
2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Page  14
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
ONAMFA Positions
            POSITION                        NO. OF
                                           POSITIONS
DIRECCION ADMINISTRATIVA-FINANCIERA
      Director(a)                                1
      Jefe del Departamento Administrativo       1
      Jefe de la Division de Personal            1
      Jefe del Departamento Financiero           1
      Jefe de la Division de Activos Fijos       1
      Jefe de la Division de Contabilidad        1
      Jefe de la Division de Almacenes           1
DIRECCION DEL MENOR, MUJER Y FAMILIA
      Director(a)                                1
      Jefe del Departamento de Atencion
       a la Comunidad                            1
      Tecnico en Menor                           1
      Tecnico en Ancianos                        1
      Jefe del Departamento de Centros
       Estatales y Privados                      1
      Tecnico de Centros Estatales               1
      Tecnico de Centros Privados                1
      Jefe del Departamento de Adopciones        1
      Asesor Legal                               1
      Trabajador Social                          1
OFICINAS DEPARTAMENTALES
      Director Administrativo-
       -Financiero                               8
      Director del Menor, Mujer y Familia        8
Page  15
      TOTAL                                     33
                                                ==
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines):
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price shall be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraph 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $4,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
4.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be awarded after 
direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of more than $75,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
Page  16
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project through ONAFMA, the 
Borrower shall employ or cause ONAMFA to employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ or cause ONAMFA to employ such 
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use or cause ONAMFA to use other standard forms agreed with 
the Association.
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Indicators
                                           End of Calendar Year
Coverage Targets         1994     1995     1996     1997     1998     1999
Number of Day-Care
Centers Functioning       703    1,441    2,617    4,489    6,579    8,670
Number of Children
Enrolled (of which    10,545   21,615   39,255   67,335   98,685  130,050
children under
2 years of age)       (2,109)  (4,323)  (7,851) (13,467) (19,737) (26,010)
Number of Educators     1,687    3,458   6,280   10,774   15,790   20,808
Selection of Children Enrolled in Day-Care Centers
All new children enrolled in Day-care Centers will be selected according to the 
following criteria, in order of importance:
(i)
Malnourished;
 
(ii)
Living in single parent households;
 
(iii)
Parents employed and, thus, child at risk of abandonment; and
 
(iv)
From families with high parity, i.e., with 5 or more children.
 
The percentage of new enrollees meeting each of the above criterion would be 
reviewed.
Compliance with Key Operational/Technical Norms of the Project
            Indicator                                Target
Percentage of normal or mildly malnourished   100 percent for
children enrolled in the Day-care Centers     all years of project
who have received weight & height control     implementation
Page  17
visits at the referral health center once
per month
Percentage of children enrolled in the        100 percent for
Day-care Center who are mildly malnourished   all years of project
and not gaining weight between control        implementation
visits and those with moderate and severe
malnutrition who have received weight
control visits once per week at the referral
health center
Percentage of malnourished children enrolled  100 percent for
in Day-care Centers who are under medical     all years of project
treatment or who have received medical        implementation
control visits by a doctor at the referral
health center twice per month
Percentage distribution of children enrolled  Over time, the
in Day-care Centers according to their        proportion of
nutrition status (i.e. normal or mild,        children
moderate or severe malnutrition)              malnourished,
                                              particularly of
                                              moderate and
                                              severe degree,
                                              would decline
Percentage of children enrolled in the        100 percent for
Day-care Center for six months or more        all years of project
who have received their full immunization     implementation
coverage
Percentage distribution of children enrolled   Over time, the
in Day-care Centers according to their level   proportion of
on the child development scale                 children at the
                                               lowest levels
                                               would decline
Percentage of children enrolled in Day-care    100 percent for
Centers who, upon reaching 6 years of age,     all years of
enter primary school                           project
                                               implementation
Costs of Day-Care Center Implementation
Average investment cost per Day-care Center for:
(i)
initial opening; and
 
(ii)
replacement of furniture and equipment.
 
Average monthly operational costs per Day-Care Center.
Average monthly project cost per beneficiary.
SCHEDULE 7
Studies to be Carried out by
the Borrower through ONAMFA
      Project Component/                         Agreed Completion
            Study                                      Date
A.    Sector Policy Development and
      Management Strengthening
      Food Security and Nutrition                June 30, 1995
      Extension of Child Development             June 30, 1996
      Services to Rural Areas
Page  18
      Analysis of ONAMFA's Institutional         June 30, 1996
      Capacity
      Refinement of Child Development            June 30, 1996
      Measures
      Design of a Five-Year Information          June 30, 1996
      System Plan
B.    Monitoring and Evaluation
      Impact of the Project on Women             June 30, 1996
                                                 (Interim Report)
                                                 June 30, 1998
                                                 (Final Report)
      Impact of the Project on Community         June 30, 1996
      Development                                (Interim Report)
                                                 June 30, 1998
                                                 (Final Report)
      Project Cost-Effectiveness                 June 30, 1998
      Project Impact on Schooling and            June 30, 1998
      School Performance
