                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 30209

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-25310)

                                       ON A CREDIT




        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.8 MILLION (US$50.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA

                                           FOR AN

                      INTEGRATED CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                       October 15, 2004




Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Ecuador, and Peru
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective October13, 2004)

                         Currency Unit = Bolivianos
                                 100 Bs = US$ 12.5
                               US$ 1.00 = Bs 8.01

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1    December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BSS        Bolivian Social Strategy (Estrategia Social Boliviana)
CIDI       Centros Infantiles de Desarrollo Integral (Children's Centres for Development)
CONAPSO    Consejo Nacional de Política Social (National Social Policy Council)
CSRP       Civil Sector Reform Program
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
DHS        Demographic and Health Survey
EC         European Community
EU         European Union
FIS        Fondo de Inversión Social (Social Investment Fund)
GOB        Government of Bolivia
GOI        Government of Italy
IDB        Interamerican Development Bank
INE        Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas (National Institute of Statistics)
MECD       Ministerio de Educación, Cultura y Deportes (Ministry of Education, Culture and
           Sports)
MPSSP      Ministerio de Previsión Social y Salud Pública.(Ministry of Social Assistance and
           Public Health)
MTR        Mid-term Review
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
ONAMFA     Organismo Nacional del Menor, Mujer y Familia (National Organization of
           Minors, Women and Family)
PAN        Plan Nacional de Atención a Niños y Niñas Menores de Seis Años
           (National Plan for Attention to Children under Six Years of Age)
PIDI       Proyecto Integral de Desarrollo Infantil (Integrated Child Development Project)
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SAFCO      Sistema Integrado de Administración Finanaciera y Control (Integrated
           System of Financial Administration and Control)
SIG        Sistema de Información Gerencial (Managment Information System)
SIMECAL    Sistema de Medición y Evaluación de la Calidad de la Educación
           (Measurement and Evaluation System of Quality of Education)
UDAPSO     Unidad de Análisis de Política Social (Social Policy Analysis Unit)
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF     United Nations Children's Fund
USAID      United States Agency For International Development
VIPFE      Vice-Ministry of Public Investment and External Finance (Vice Ministerio de
           Inversión Pública y Financiamiento Externo)
WFP        World Food Programme

                 Vice President:  David de Ferranti
             Country Director:    Marcelo Giugale
               Sector Director:   Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo

                                           BOLIVIA
                              BO- INTEGRATED CHILD DEV


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          10
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            26
6. Sustainability                                                                29
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 31
8. Lessons Learned                                                               33
9. Partner Comments                                                              34
10. Additional Information                                                       35
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             36
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             40
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             43
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             47
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             49
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                50
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            51
Annex 8. Institutional Evaluation                                                52
Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution                                                 59
Annex 10. Borrower's Comments                                                    60

Project ID: P006196                                                  Project Name: BO- INTEGRATED CHILD DEV
Team Leader: Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo                                TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 22, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: BO- INTEGRATED CHILD DEV                                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-25310
   Country/Department: BOLIVIA                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (89%); Central government administration
                            (11%)
                  Theme: Child health (P); Gender (P); Participation and civic engagement
                            (P); Access to urban services for the poor (P); Population and
                            reproductive health (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/07/1992                                     Effective: 05/03/1994                06/29/1994
     Appraisal: 05/27/1993                                         MTR: 11/30/1996                  09/14/1998
      Approval: 06/29/1993                                      Closing: 12/31/1999                 03/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA/ONAMFA/FIS/PAN/MECD-MSPPS
                      Other Partners:      WFP, EC, UNICEF, USAID/SIF, IDB

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Javed Burki
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Yoshiaki Abe (Dept. Director)
Sector Director:                Ana-Maria Arriagada                            Jacques Van Der Gaag (Division Chief)
Team Leader at ICR:             Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo                       Xavier Coll
ICR Primary Author:             Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo;
                                Maria R. Puech Fernandez;
                                Olympia Beatriz Icochea


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Integrated Child Development Project (Proyecto Integral de Desarrollo Infantil, PIDI) was prepared
during 1992 and approved in 1993. This project was designed to palliate the effects of the hyper-inflation
crisis during the second half of the 1980s on the already poor health and nutritional status of the Bolivian
population, particularly the most vulnerable. The project was to be implemented in the 34 largest urban
areas, in order to establish a foundation for the development of long-term policies and programs to provide
integrated early childhood development (ECD) services across the country, including rural areas. The
project was also designed to help the Government of Bolivia (GOB) strengthen its capacity to formulate
and evaluate social policy.

The specific objectives were to:
    a) improve children's readiness to succeed in school and beyond by facilitating their physical,
    emotional, social and cognitive development;
    b) enhance the status of women by increasing their employment opportunities and expanding their
    knowledge of education, health and nutrition; and,
    c) increase community and private sector participation in the social development process.

Assessment
The project objectives were consistent with Bolivia's strategy for poverty alleviation. At the time of
preparation, the Government's sectoral policy was defined in the Bolivian Social Strategy (Estrategia
Social Boliviana, BSS, 1991), teh Bank did not have yet have Country Assistance Strategyy. Based on the
BSS, and in agreement with the International Development Association (IDA)-financed Poverty
Assessment (8643-BO, November 1990), a ten-year Action Plan for Women and Children (Plan Decenal
de Acción para la Niñez y la Mujer) was developed by an inter-ministerial team. The plan focused on
regional interventions in the areas of health and nutrition, education, water and sanitation, children in
difficult circumstances and women. The PIDI Project was the cornerstone of this ten-year action plan. The
project objectives were also consistent with IDA's assistance strategy for Bolivia, as stated in the SAR.
However, there were some fundamental weaknesses in the project design and implementation arrangements
that ultimately affected the efficiency with which project objectives were achieved and delayed completion
by nearly five years (see Sections 3.3 and 3.5).

3.2 Revised Objective:
Despite four amendments to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), including two restructurings in
1997 and 2001, the original objectives remained unchanged. The project development objectives were
defined in sufficiently broad terms to allow for substantial changes in the operational design without
requiring any revision. Moreover, the objectives remained relevant through the life of the project, and still
do so today.

3.3 Original Components:
The total project cost was estimated at US$140.2 million with Government and beneficiary counterpart
contributions, commitments from the World Food Programme (WFP) and the European Community (EC)
for food donations, UNICEF for training, and USAID and the social fund for the pilot activities (see Table
1 below from the SAR). At the time of approval, there was an identified financing gap of approximately
US$44.1 million to cover food requirements in the second half of the project.




                                                     - 2 -

                                                    Table 1: Financing Plan
                          Financiers                     US$ million       Percentage
                         Government                          21.0               15
                         IDA                                 50.7               36
                         World Food Programme                11.9               9
                         European Community                  1.8                1
                         UNICEF                              1.3                1
                         Beneficiaries                       8.8                6
                         USAID/SIF                           0.6                1
                         Other Expected Cofinancing          44.1               31
                          Total                             140.2             100%


The project had three components and several sub-components.

Component 1. Sector Policy Development and Management Strengthening. (US$4.0 million, 2.8
percent of total project costs). This component would enhance the public sector's capacity to formulate and
evaluate social sector policy through the following two sub-components:

a) Sector Policy Development: this subcomponent would finance studies and technical assistance in the
areas of early child development, food security and nutrition. During the first three years of the project, it
would also finance select operating costs to conduct pilot projects to test alternative delivery models.
b) Management Strengthening: this subcomponent would finance technical assistance to: (i) oversee the
modernization process in the National Organization of Children, Women, and Family (Organización
Nacional del Menor, Mujer, y Familia, ONAMFA) and its incorporation in the Civil Sector Reform
Program (CSRP); (ii) implement its information systems; (iii) carry out a mid-term technical and
administrative evaluation of this institution and a mid-term evaluation to assess progress in implementation
of its information systems; and (iv) create a permanent division in ONAMFA to implement the project.

Component 2. Service Delivery Support. (US$133.6 million, 95.3 percent of total project costs). This
component would support ONAMFA's efforts to deliver integrated child development services to the poor
urban and peri-urban areas by implementing an early child development model in 34 cities, providing care
through approximately 8,600 non-formal home-based day care centers (PIDIs) (about 15 children per
center with two or three caregivers selected from the local community and trained through the project).
ONAMFA was designated as the implementing agency. At that time, ONAMFA was an autonomous
agency under the Presidency, managed by a Board of Directors, and it provided services for children and
the most vulnerable populations. The project offered funds via a mixed grant-loan basis to the caregivers'
homes to bring the day care center to minimum standards of safety, hygiene, etc. It also provided funding
for caregivers' stipends, on a declining basis. Food for the children was to be supplied by WFP and cooked
by caregivers. This model was based on a pilot experience with these types of day care centers carried out
during 1992-93. This component specifically would:

a) Further develop and strengthen the project's operational structure by financing vehicles, equipment
and supplies for central and regional ONAMFA's teams administering and executing the project;
b) Refine the mechanisms for targeting beneficiaries and selecting caregivers by using poverty maps and
specific criteria to select children and maintaining an inventory of potential caregivers;
c) Provide initial and in-service training for, and supervision of, caregivers, to enable them to respond to
early education, nutrition and health needs of the children through technical assistance and workshops, and
financing of vehicles and salaries for incremental supervisor positions (on a declining basis), which would
carry out on-the-job training and supervision;



                                                      - 3 -

d) Promote the development and build the capacity of parents' associations to assume selected
administrative functions within the program. This would be achieved through workshops carried out by the
project regional teams;
e) Finance the rehabilitation of the caregiver's home as the day care site, on a mixed grant-loan basis.
f) Provide children with nutritional supplementation and access to key health and early education
services. Food (not IDA-financed) would be supplied either in the form of dry food commodities from food
aid, or by local purchase of perishable products financed through monetization of food aid. Moreover,
ONAMFA and the Ministry of Social Assistance and Public Health (Ministerio de Previsión Social y
Salud Pública, MSPPS) would enter into a cooperative agreement specifying a minimum package of
curative and preventive services to be delivered at preferential fees to PIDI children. A Health Fund
administered by ONAMFA would finance the health expenditures of those unable to afford even the
preferential fees. The fund was to be financed in part from IDA Credit proceeds (on a declining basis) and
from municipal or parent's associations funds;
g) Increase access for "project women" to maternity care and family planning services. The agreement
between ONAMFA and the MSPPS included preferential fees for services for mothers and pregnant
women who are either caregivers or have children participating in the project.

Component 3. Monitoring and Evaluation. (US$2.6 million, 1.9 percent of total project costs). This
component would support project performance and monitoring and impact evaluation by developing and
implementing: (a) a management information system to monitor timeliness in meeting programmed targets,
as well as the overall technical quality, administration and financing operations under the project; and (b)
an impact evaluation system, including the addition of special modules to the annual Integrated Household
Survey and carrying out special longitudinal studies and sociological surveys.

Assessment
The project components were linked to the objectives described above and they addressed the main
challenges facing the GOB in terms of supporting improvements in the welfare of poor mothers and
children. However, based on the poor implementation performance from the beginning, the findings of the
1998 midterm review (MTR), and the 2001 restructuring, the proposed project activities and strategies do
not seem to have been the most efficient to achieve the objectives. The QAG review carried out in
September 2002 notes that "The project appears to have never been feasible. It was exceptionally large in
scope. The financing plan was not tied down before approval. It also had extraordinary high unit costs per
beneficiary that were beyond the financial competence of Bolivia. It was initially to be implemented by an
agency that had little capacity".

Project design. In retrospect, the project design did not seem to take into account the country's still fragile
economic and financial situation, the historical and persistent institutional weakness of ONAMFA, the
brewing movement towards decentralization, the risk of low project ownership by the new administration,
the substantial fiscal burden of the project activities, and the difficulties of meeting the effectiveness
conditions in an electoral year. It also seems to have overestimated the speed and depth of the public sector
reform, particularly since there was a known resistance in certain political sectors and a new administration
was due to enter as the project was to become effective.

The assessment of the implementation and financial capacity of the country to provide agreed counterpart
funds seems to have been overly optimistic, and the fiscal impact of the project activities seems to have
been substantially underestimated. A financial analysis performed in the late 1990's, per the Government's
request, estimates project costs to be at best US$30 per child per month, or US$360 per child per year (or
approximately 55 percent of the per capita GDP at the time of project design). In view of this, it is fair to


                                                     - 4 -

state that the model chosen to deliver ECD services required an investment that the country could not
afford. Moreover, there was an identified financing gap of approximately US$44.1 million in the second
half of the project to cover food requirements (which was expected to be covered through food aid from
WFP and bilateral agencies, but there was no commitment at time of approval). In fact, the SAR even
states that there were doubts about WFP's policy regarding continuation of food aid to the project areas,
but no alternative measures seem to have been taken. This is particularly important if we consider that food
was the costliest input, accounting for about 50 percent of total costs. Finally, the activities proposed
required more skills, personal effort and time than very poor parents could afford.

Institutional assessment. The project design may also have been too complex for the country's institutional
reality (see Annex 8). The design was heavily dependent on the implementation of institutional reforms and
the maintenance of existing institutional arrangements, that crumbled shortly after project approval as a
new administration took office. Shortly after the project was launched (1994), the new government passed
the Decentralization Law and the Popular Participation Law, which radically changed the sociopolitical
context for project implementation. These laws made municipalities and the departments (prefecturas)
across the country responsible for decision making, in particular for investments and delivery of many
social services, including those under the project. These laws emphasized popular participation in decision
making, marking a departure from the context in which the project had been designed and approved. The
new administration did not advance with most of the public sector reforms (ongoing at the project design
stage), such as the Civil Service Reform (CSR) and the National Law for an Integrated System of Financial
Administration and Control (Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera y Control, SAFCO),
considered key to ensure project implementation. Finally, intersectoral issues are very difficult to house
institutionally, unless there is a very high political commitment (such as with HIV/AIDS) and even more so
if they are housed in a single institution without an intersectoral mandate, such as ONAMFA. The PIDI
Project, like other initiatives that require intersectoral policies and strategies, needed a stronger institutional
leadership with full legitimacy and presence than that present in Bolivia at the time of project design.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project was restructured twice (1997, 2001) to reflect the significant changes (referred to in Section
3.3) in the political and institutional context in which the project was being implemented. The DCA was
amended four times to address the restructuring and also changes in the implementing agency,
implementation arrangements, the components and the strategies used to achieve the development
objectives.

By mid-1995, project implementation was unsatisfactory since a year had passed between approval and
effectiveness, and even after effectiveness there was no implementation progress. Effectiveness was delayed
in part because a new administration took office in August 1993 (two months after approval), and the new
government had concerns about the scale and financing implications of the project. These concerns seem to
have been the reason for the lack of counterpart funding during 1994 and a lower than expected amount in
1995. The Civil Sector Reform, which was critical for ONAMFA's strengthening, was delayed, and the
approval of the Decentralization and Population Participation Laws in 1994 resulted in an additional
distribution of some of ONAMFA's central positions to the nine administrative regions.

First Amendment, July 1995. The Government requested an amendment, which was approved by IDA,
to: (i) incorporate changes reflecting delays in effectiveness and implementation, including the dates and
percentages of incremental recurrent cost financing; (ii) add a one-year Closing Date extension; (iii)
decrease the project targets for day care centers; and (iv) plan staffing levels of ONAMFA at the regional
and central levels. Basically, the amendment moved the entire implementation plan back one year and
reduced the targets to reflect the Government's concern with the project's size.


                                                        - 5 -

ONAMFA, the implementing agency, was dissolved at the end of 1995 as a result of the Decentralization
and Popular Participation Laws. On February 13, 1996, the GOB communicated to IDA that the PIDI
Project had been transferred to the Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversión Social, FIS), which would
serve as the implementing agency as of that date. This transfer, together with increased decentralization of
responsibilities for social service delivery to municipalities, required another amendment to the DCA (see
below).

Project implementation improved during 1995-96, yet it was not enough to make up for time lost in the
project and the constant changes and adjustments in the institutional framework continued to slow
momentum. There was also a recurrent shortage of counterpart funds. After two years of implementation, it
became clear to both the Government and IDA that the home-based day care service delivery model, as
proposed in the SAR, would not meet the agreed targets (see Section 4.2 for additional details).

In April 1997, the Government created the PAN (Presidential Decree 24557): "Plan Nacional de Atención
a Niños y Niñas Menores de Seis Años," grouping all the ongoing child development projects providing
services (nutritional, educational, health) across Bolivia. The PAN grouped the IDB-financed Centros
Infantiles de Desarrollo Integral (CIDI) and the IDA-financed PIDI Project together with a shared
management and the interventions were carried out in two modalities: (i) community, and (ii) home-based.
Initially, PAN was placed within the "Fondo de Inversion Social" (FIS).

Second Amendment/First Project Restructuring, July-September 1997. The Government was
concerned about the long-term sustainability of project interventions and requested a cost-analysis study,
which was carried out in October 1996. The Government had also not identified additional resources to
meet the identified financing gap and it was becoming clear that the Credit resources could not be executed
in the remaining timeframe. The Government and IDA agreed on a restructuring (approved at the Country
Director level), which reflected the agreements on institutional arrangements, service delivery, and the
reduced total project cost, as summarized below:
a) FIS was retroactively designated as the implementing agency. All activities in Component 1 were
modified to strengthen FIS and other eligible entities;
b) total project costs were officially reduced to US$111.6 million, thus diminishing the Government's
counterpart contribution, and increasing IDA's financing of project costs from 36 to 45 percent;
c) a disbursement sub-category was introduced to finance incremental administrative costs for NGOs, so
that the management of day care centers could be contracted out. This option was designed to make the
project more flexible, more responsive to demand and more sustainable.
d) a new "subproject" disbursement category was introduced to finance center-based day care facilities
in the community (with the same norms as home-based day care), besides the home-based and community
education activities. This new category included resources for the day care facilities structured like a fund
within FIS in which the municipalities would compete to receive funding to implement community
center-based PIDIs.
e) a new component (Component 4) to finance Community Participation and Education was created. It
was financed through the subproject category and included: (i) implementation of a system of technical and
organizational support that would encourage the participation of the community, parents and neighbors in
day care activities; and (ii) development and institutionalization of social communications and adult
education programs in the areas of education, reproductive health, nutrition, counseling, and family
strengthening. The activities in this component were consistent with the specific project objective of
increasing community participation in the social development process.
f) the training and supervision systems were somewhat decentralized to municipalities, adapting them to
incorporate new modalities of service delivery within the project.


                                                     - 6 -

At the end of 1997, a new administration took over and in April 1998, the new Government took PAN out
of FIS, making it an autonomous institution under the Ministry of the Presidency. In addition, in 1998, the
Ministry of Health instituted a Basic Health Insurance for Mothers and Children that fully subsidized basic
mother and child health care, which made PIDI's Health Fund less relevant. Finally, the project continued
to have problems with counterpart funds and the 1996 sustainability study had demonstrated the high cost
of interventions per child.

Third Amendment, March 1999. The Government requested and IDA approved another amendment in
1999 to: (i) adapt the project to the new institutional arrangements; (ii) further lower total project costs;
(iii) decrease government participation in project costs; (iv) raise the quality of other center-based day cares
to PIDI standards; (v) pilot strategies and services to reduce costs, and extend coverage (introduction of an
indirect modality); and (vi) avoid overlap with the Basic Health Insurance for Mothers and Children. This
amendment introduced the following changes:

     a) a cancellation of SDR 14.3 million (US$20 million equivalent), reducing the IDA financing to SDR
     37.2 million (US$30.7 million equivalent), and increasing IDA's financing from 45 to 58 percent of
     project costs for the last two years of project implementation;
     b) the designation of PAN as the implementing agency;
     c) the elimination of the Health Fund;
     d) the inclusion of new project targets;
     e) an increase in coverage areas from 34 to 38 municipalities; and
     f) a simplification and adaptation of project indicators to the new activities.

During 1999-2001, IDA's supervision focused on the implementation of activities that were introduced in
the 1997 Amendment, but were slow to execute. At that time, the undisbursed balance was SDR 13.5
million (US$ 19.70 million equivalent) corresponding to approximately 64.2 percent of the Credit funds
(after the 1999 cancellation). Project implementation progressed relatively well during the years with PAN
as the implementing agency, with moderate increases in coverage and provision of services to children 0 to
6 years of age. However, implementation progress did not accelerate to the point of surpassing targets and
achieving full disbursement. As the scheduled closing date of December 2001 was approaching, there was
an undisbursed balance of about US$10.0 million. In addition, PAN's administrative and financial
management capacity was very low. Audit reports were never on time and IDA's supervision was made
difficult by the administrative disorder. Finally, there seems to have been resistance in PAN to pilot the
indirect modality for ECD services as agreed in the amendment. The indirect modality consisted of working
with families through counseling, house visits, workshops and health services visits to improve child
rearing behaviors. In the 1990's, this modality had proven to be effective in several countries and much
more cost-efficient and sustainable than the direct modality (food provision). Finally, the Government and
IDA were concerned about the long-term sustainability of the day care centers and during this time the
project focused on converting family/home centers into community centers. All those reasons led to the
initial decision to close the credit and cancel the remaining (US$10.0 million) at the agreed Closing Date
(December 31, 2001).

Fourth Amendment/Second Project Restructuring, 2001. Faced with the cancellation of IDA funds at
the beginning of a new economic crisis, the Government requested, and IDA granted, an extension of the
project closing date for two more years until December 2003, conditioned on project restructuring. As part
of the restructuring, the project activities and the institutional arrangements were modified to address past
concerns and support reforms being developed in the country. These modifications sought to: (i) increase
coverage of ECD services; (ii) substantially reduce costs of said services; (iii) introduce, on a wider scale,


                                                      - 7 -

indirect methods for child stimulation and nutrition for children under 3 that had proven to be very
successful in the region; (iv) institutionalize project activities as much as possible; and, (v) support the
introduction of the preschool curricula of the ongoing Education Reform and expand preschool
infrastructure in poor peri-urban areas. All ongoing activities under PAN were to be finalized before
December 2001.

Financing. Given the deteriorating economic situation, the amendment increased IDA financing in the
category of "Civil Works for Rehabilitation of Day Care Facilities" from 58 to 85 percent and reduced
IDA financing in the category of "Subprojects Day care Facilities" from 55 to 20 percent. This allowed for
acceleration of the disbursement of funds to carry out small works to remodel municipal day care centers,
which were inadequate for childcare. At that time, municipalities were already covering the majority of the
investment and operating costs.

New implementing agencies. The Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports (Ministerio de Educación,
Cultura, y Deportes, MECD) and the Ministry of Health (MSPPS) were designated as the new
implementing agencies to execute the remaining resources (approximately US$10.0 million) based on two
new components. This restructuring built on the comparative advantages of the sectors to deliver services
and gave the project the sectoral legitimacy that had somewhat lacked up to that moment.

Two restructured components. The project was restructured into two independent components: (i) an
initial education component, to be implemented by the MECD; and (ii) an early childhood-development
component, to be implemented by the MSPPS, through third party service delivery. The focus for both
components remained on the poor urban population, giving continuity to the investment previously carried
out through PAN and encouraging the transfer of the responsibility for early childhood care from the PAN
to the MECD and the MSPPS.

Component 1: Initial Education Component (US$7.0 million). This component aimed to increase the
coverage of formal education for children ages 4-6, and raise awareness among parents and the community
on the importance of child development/education for 0-6 year olds in poor peri-urban areas.             The
following activities were to be financed: (i) the integration of PAN's day care centers within the education
system; (ii) the expansion, rehabilitation and equipping of preschool classrooms; (iii) training of preschool
teachers, directors and teacher's assistants on the new preschool curriculum; and (iv) the implementation of
a communication campaign on the importance of early childhood development through radio and television,
printed materials and training of parents in schools and school boards.

Component 2: Early Childhood Development for Children Under Six (US$3.0 million).                        This
component aimed to increase financial sustainability and the long-term impact of early childhood
development activities by using indirect methods and contracting out ECD services, and encouraging
behavioral changes in parents. Although the component was to cover children under six, it focused mainly
on children under age three as the most vulnerable. This component was designed to improve child
development through an indirect modality, concentrating its efforts on counseling and educating parents on
child nutrition, basic health and early stimulation. Counseling, follow-up and support programs were to be
delivered through NGOs, or other institutions with experience in the delivery of these services, hired by the
MSPPS. Several NGOs selected through a competitive public process would deliver a package of services
determined by the MSPPS and would be paid on the basis of their performance (upon meeting agreed
targets). The NGOs were to work closely with the health facilities, and establish a referral and
counter-referral system.




                                                     - 8 -

It is evident that, in contrast to the previous restructuring and amendments, which were limited mainly to
reduce the scope of the project and review targets downwards, the 2001 restructuring fundamentally altered
the original implementation arrangements, redirecting implementation responsibility to the line Ministries.
This approach increased the legitimacy of project activities and the likelihood of their sustainability.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory
The project was designed based on the available economic and sector work, and project objectives were in
line with IDA's assistance strategy for the country. However, as noted above, there were weaknesses in the
project design and in the assessment of institutional and financial capacity of the Borrower that affected
project implementation from early stages. At the time of approval, Bolivia had an Action Plan for Women
and Children, but it needed support to establish a solid foundation to formulate early childhood
development policies, focusing on priority areas (nutrition, food security, etc) and refine measures to assess
child development. Moreover, the action plan proved not to be a useful reference framework for the project
actions when the political, institutional and economic circumstances evolved. The country's weak capacity
in formulating an adequate and flexible policy framework for integrated ECD policies was felt throughout
the life of the project.

Institutional Issues: At the time of approval, the designation of ONAMFA as the executing agency was
appropriate considering the strengthening the institution had undergone during the period before the
project's approval. Nevertheless, ONAMFA was not an "institutionalized" entity with the weight of a
Ministry, which could provide institutional continuity to project implementation. Furthermore, ONAMFA
had no experience in handling activities of this geographical scope, complexity and financial scale.

Financial Issues: During preparation, the financial implications of the project were not adequately assessed
by IDA. The project was over-dimensioned and designed with a significant financing gap, which was, very
early on, seen as very difficult to bridge. The sustainability scenarios for the project were also not
appropriately explored. This had implications for the targets, which were frequently unmet. Moreover,
project costs per child were unrealistic and unsustainable, which made the fiscal burden unsustainable for
the Bolivian economy.

Project design: The project design was based on a limited pilot experience carried out during 1992-93,
where about 185 PIDI models were created and functioning (from 250 planned centers). This pilot allowed
for gaining experience and adjusting the model, yet a formal evaluation of the pilot experience was never
carried out before launching the project.

The project design did not include other ongoing in-country experiences of CIDIs and instead promoted a
completely new modality of home-based day care centers implemented in other countries (Colombia and the
Philippines). The design was too ambitious for the reality and institutional capacity of the country. The
project had too many (and at times conflicting) activities that put strain on project implementation (for
example, training women to help them access the labor market and then wanting them to stay at home for a
family day care center; or the incentive provided to rehabilitate a house). Indeed, the actual demand for the
services to be provided under the project was overestimated. Even though the potential demand was there,
the top-down approach and the need for family contributions prevented the poorest families from
participating. Finally, most of the assumptions the project relied on were never realized in Bolivia, as they
were in other countries, such as: rapid generation of an effective demand for the services offered; the
capacity to reach the poorer families; substantial family and community participation and constant
interaction of families with mother educators; and the provision of resources by parents to finance the
operational costs of PIDIs.



                                                      - 9 -

Some of the main project risks were identified in the SAR (lack of GOB commitment to fully absorb
project-generated costs, ONAMFA's managerial capacity being overwhelmed by implementation demands
and improvements in children's nutritional status being lost during the weekend at home), yet the mitigating
measures chosen were not adequate to overcome these risks. For instance, a Decree committing counterpart
funds proved insufficient to ensure those funds particularly as the administration changed. Finally, the
sustainability assessment was weak, which was aggravated by the approval of the legal framework on
decentralization and participation in 1994.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
It is worth mentioning that the SAR does not have impact or outcome indicators, it only had output (called
implementation) indicators. This issue made the evaluation of whether the project did or did not reach its
development objectives difficult.

ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory
Considering the troubled history of this project and in the absence of a marginally satisfactory rating, the
project's overall performance is considered unsatisfactory. The project was unusually long (ten years) and
it faced serious problems in the first four years, as described in Section 3.4.            Successive project
restructuring was attempted to adapt the project to new realities and improve implementation. Nonetheless,
achievements were uncertain due to the institutional instability that prevented the project from building on
its progress to achieve the development objectives. Even though the project achieved an expansion in
coverage and quality of the child development programs, it did so at too high costs while not reaching the
targets foreseen in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).

Before the 2001 restructuring, the development objectives were being partially achieved at unsustainably
high costs for a country like Bolivia. This restructuring broke away from the original paternalistic model,
radically changing how to achieve project objectives. Implementation was turned around and a poorly
designed and troubled project was transformed into one that made some progress toward achieving its
development objectives at much lower costs (from the costly US$22 to 30 per child per month to the
finally estimated US$25 per child per year), as indicated by the impact evaluations carried out before
project closing.

The project produced several progress and impact evaluations during implementation. Two impact
evaluations were carried out in 1996 and 1998 and an evaluation from the Ministry of Education -
SIMECAL evaluation (Sistema de Medición y Evaluación de la Calidad de la Educación) took place in
1999. The assessment of project achievements is based on the results of these evaluations and other studies
on the accessibility of women to the labor market (see Annex 7). During implementation, the development
objectives remained unchanged, yet the scope and reach of those objectives kept shrinking, as each
implementing agency adjusted the scale of project interventions. Indicators of outcome were changed
(progressively simplified) between the first project period and after the 2001 restructuring to reflect the new
activities and ensure accurate measurements.

Since the service delivery models used to reach the development objectives were different (originally a
direct modality versus an indirect modality after 2001), the monitoring indicators used for the 1993-2001
period were different than from the ones for the 2001-03 period (see Tables in Annex 1). The number of
children and families that benefited from IDA-financed services was substantially higher after 2001
(150,000 versus 50,000) .(2)




                                                     - 10 -

The progress by objective is detailed below:

Increase children's readiness to succeed in school and beyond, measured by the progress in their
physical, emotional, social, and cognitive development. Results of the different evaluations (see Annex 7)
showed that children benefiting from the project, during the different periods, experienced statistically
significant improvements in their cognitive and physical development, increasing their readiness to
successfully enter primary school.

Achievements for the 1993-2001 period: Two impact evaluations (1996 and 1998) were carried out during
the PAN implementation period with technical assistance from Harvard University. These evaluations used
parametric and non-parametric statistical methods to determine the impact of the PIDI Project on cognitive,
psycho-social, and anthropometric outcomes, and provided some illustrative estimates of the benefit/cost
ratios of the program. The results of those evaluations showed that: (i) PIDI was successful in reaching
poorer children and households in poorer communities; (ii) there were cognitive and psycho-social
improvements in the children participating in the program versus the control group and versus a group of
children that had been in the program less than two months; (iii) the impacts tended to be larger,
particularly for anthropometric outcomes, for the children enrolled in PIDI from better family backgrounds;
and (iv) the impacts are cumulative so they increase considerably as the exposure of a child to the program
becomes longer, specifically the effects seem to be strongly positive after seven months in the program. The
evaluations also showed that the nutritional impact was moderate to negligible. Remaining in the program
for over seven months had a moderate impact on the children's weight. Detailed results and cost-benefit
estimates can be found in Annex 3.

The evaluations conclude that "if capital insurance and information market imperfections mean that private
incentives for preschool investments are below the social incentives for poor household such as those
towards which PIDI is targeted, some public subsidies for PIDI are warranted on efficiency grounds and
are relatively well used." It goes as far as indicating that whether or not there is an efficiency rationale for
public subsidies, PIDI may be an effective mechanism for redistributing productive resources towards very
poor members of society.

The SIMECAL evaluation (March 2000) showed that the children that had participated in the
PAN-implemented PIDI program entered primary education with basically the same learning capacity as
the national average. This shows that PAN correctly targeted the program activities on the population of
higher social risk and poverty. The program had a positive impact on children's emotional, social, and
cognitive development. Acording to the literature on the subject, such improvements positively affect a
child's learning achievements and reduce future dropout. The project activities (until March 2000)
complemented the efforts to improve the quality of education financed under the IDA financed Education
Reform Project (Credit 2650-July 1994).

Despite these positive results, including cost-benefit, the 1999 fiscal impact assessment showed an
estimated cost of US$30 per child per month. As PAN increased coverage, the cost of the program
diminished to an estimated of US$22 per child per month. Both these costs were deemed unaffordable for
the Bolivian Government, thus jeopardizing the financial sustainability once the external financing would
finish. From the social sustainability point of view, it was noted that the center-based services did not
promote changes in the family habits and in the parents' knowledge of health, nutrition and early
stimulation.




                                                     - 11 -

Achievements for the 2002-03 period: The indicators for the 2002-2003 period focused on increasing the
coverage and improving the quality of services for children ages 4-6 in the 38 urban municipalities covered
by the project (Municipalities were increased from 34 to 38). It also aimed to inform and train families and
communities on the importance of education for children under six years of age; the target was to reach 50
percent of the adult population in the project areas.

For the Initial Education Component, the project successfully achieved increasing coverage of preschool
education for children ages 4 to 6. Children in the schools supported by the project scored higher in a series
of tests than children in the control group. The project-supported activities also changed teachers'
perceptions and attitudes about the importance of preschool education, the role and potential of children
and their own role in teaching and learning. Project interventions were successful in reaching a large
number of parents to inform them about the importance of early childhood stimulation and development.

The indicators adopted for the Integrated Child Development Component were: weight for age (as indicator
of growth) and early stimulation for the age (development indicator). An impact evaluation (2004) showed
that:

a) 56 percent of children 0-5 increased their weight (independently of how adequate or inadequate the
weight was at first measurement). The evaluation showed that this type of intervention was effective (the
larger the intervention, the greater the impact);
b) the percentage of children 0-5 with adequate weight went from 75 to 76 percent by the end of the
project. Even though it was just one percent change, this was significant not only from a statistical point of
view, but also given the short duration of the program (eight months) and the influence of other transitory
variables; and,
c) more than 68 percent of children increased their levels of early stimulation after the second measurement
(independent of the adequacy or inadequacy of the stimulation levels). The children with adequate early
stimulation surpassed the minimum level, and the children with insufficient early stimulation levels
improved them and moved closer to the minimum adequate levels. The larger the intervention by the
project, the better the results.

The impact evaluation also showed that in terms of coverage, the interventions reached a coverage in
children under five of 65 percent in vaccination, 21 percent in deworming, 56 percent in Vitamin A and 39
percent with at least a dosage of iron. The main result was that, although results could have been better
and more complete, the scarcity of inputs in the health centers prevented a higher level of coverage. It was
perceived that the indirect modality of service delivery was more efficient (lower cost per child) and more
effective, and was successful in changing the practices of parents towards their children.

An evaluation of the degree of satisfaction with the services provided under the program showed a high
degree of satisfaction with the services provided by the NGOs and requested a continuation of them.

Enhance the status of women measured by increasing their employment opportunities and expanding
their knowledge of education, health and nutrition. Results from the 1997 and 2000 studies ("El PIDI y
sus efectos sobre las condiciones laborales de las mujeres participantes", "Informe Final de la
Evaluación de Medio Término del PAN") showed that women who had participated in the project had
more opportunities to get a job and had gained skills to earn resources. The impact evaluation of the
2001-03 period demonstrated that women highly valued the workshops ("Talleres de Contexto") that took
place as one of the activities under the restructured component on early childhood development. Through
the training received in the workshops, these women acquired relevant skills and as a result, started
microenterprises that were functioning by project closing (embroidery for the clothing for carnival in


                                                     - 12 -

Oruro, production of soy milk, pastry catering business, production of sports clothing sown by mothers,
blanket production bussiness). Even though the impact is limited to the size of the project intervention, it
shows that this type of activity can have a positive impact.

Increase community and private sector participation in the social development process. Throughout
project implementation, participation of community institutions increased. The project was originally
designed with a top down approach, and it envisioned collaboration with community and parent
associations. With the changes in the political and institutional context, the project opened a space for
municipalities to have greater participation and to take the responsibility for the day care centers. The fast
and large degree of participation for the municipalities, however, was not accompanied by a process to
strengthen their management capabilities. The role of NGOs in the delivery of services also increased after
2001.

Poverty Alleviation. This project was a program of poverty targeted interventions. However, the SAR did
not detail specifically how the project would measure poverty alleviation. For the purposes of the ICR, the
strategy used in this project to alleviate poverty was through increasing access to basic social services,
nutrition, health and education to the poorest segments of society. With this in mind, the poverty alleviation
objective was partially achieved. By the end of the project about 150,000 additional children had access to
preschool education. Moreover, it is well known that early stimulation increases school success and thus
potential future earnings of the beneficiary. The 2001 restructuring included a general objective in line with
the CAS sector goals of reducing poverty by improving the health status, nutrition and education of
children under 6 years old. This objective was to be measured by the increase in the enrollment rate in
preschool education and by a reduction of infant mortality. As shown in Annex 1, enrollment targets in
preschool education were met in the 38 municipalities by the project. As for the improvement of health
status, the 2004 impact evaluation showed that project interventions had a positive impact on the poor
population in the peri-urban areas covered by the project.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The project essentially maintained the original components from 1993 to 2001. Activities within the project
components were changed to adjust to the project's reality and to the changes in the institutional context
that occurred during implementation, as described in Section 3.4. The 2001 restructuring reduced the
project components to two. To meet the project development objectives, one of the components focused on
extending and improving preschool education in poor areas and the second on early childhood development.
The content of the new components had many similarities with the previous components, yet the service
delivery model was transformed to reach the project goals.

First Period 1993-2001

Component 1. Sector Policy Development and Management Strengthening.

ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory
This component's achievements were unsatisfactory, in terms of sector policy development and
management strengthening. The activities carried out under the different implementing agencies is described
below:




                                                     - 13 -

ONAMFA Implementation
1.A Sector Policy Development Sub-Component. This sub-component did not carry out most of the
activities foreseen in the SAR and thus did not reach its targets. None of the studies planned for first year
of implementation were done. However, by mid-1995, the Strategic Framework for a National Food and
Nutrition Plan was completed and presented to the Government.

1.B Management Strengthening Sub-Component. During 1994 and 1995, the project implemented a
limited set of activities, including improving the institution's information systems and its administrative and
financial operations (accounting, personnel management, etc.). The other planned activities were not
carried out due to changes in key ONAMFA personnel (including its president) by the new government,
compounded by a shortage of counterpart funds. In addition, there were delays in the implementation of the
Civil Service Reform Program, which was supposed to provide ONAMFA with qualified human resources
as part of the modernization process. Moreover, ONAMFA's new management did not show the same
interest in modernizing the institution, because the incentives for them had changed. The new management
saw ONAMFA as a tool for political patronage, paralyzed its modernization process and repeatedly tried to
politically interfere with the project unit .

When ONAMFA was dissolved at the end of 1995, IDA requested that the Government present a plan to
maintain this component's activities under FIS, adapting them to the new decentralized framework.
However, by January 1996, the Government had not presented a plan and thus several of the activities
under this component were cancelled, such as the evaluations of the implementation of the information
systems and technical and administrative evaluation of ONAMFA.

Activities carried out under FIS and PAN

Under the leadership of FIS, the activities of this component were adapted to the new institutional
arrangements. Several studies were completed between 1996 and 1998 on: (i) Food Security and Nutrition
(mid-June 1996); (ii) the Feasibility of Preparing Food outside of the PIDI centers, and (iii) the
achievements of students benefiting from the program. Even though there was some progress in carrying
out programmed activities, it was not sufficient to lay the groundwork for broadening the policy
foundations on early childhood development.

This component financed activities to support the institutional development of PAN. The PAN was able to
produce an operational manual and a substantial set of norms and documents to unify the delivery of
services to children under one umbrella; it did not succeed in improving sector development or
strengthening the management of the program.

During 1997, the implementation team defined the activities and tasks to be carried out under each
sub-component.       It created multidisciplinary teams, blending personnel from the PIDI, CIDI and
PRONAM-6 Projects, and it defined technical and operational tools to regulate and run the project under
PAN, under the FIS structure. One of the main outputs was the definition of a logical framework for PAN,
which served as the basis for consultancies on organizational development to be carried out during 1998,
institutional strengthening, food management and the elaboration of an Operational Manual for PAN. A
workshop on operational planning for PAN's 1998 activities was also carried out. This exercise was very
useful to plan and define future activities, and it included the participation of the national and regional
teams, as well as teams from the three pre-existing projects. Also, support was provided at the technical
level in the development of several policy documents, such as the menu of the modalities of attention, the
technical norms for integral attention to children under six, the curriculum, educational materials and the
PAN training system.


                                                     - 14 -

PAN was unable to fully launch the indirect modality for service delivery, despite its efforts to disseminate
it as a viable option to transfer the program to the municipalities and Departments (prefecturas).

Activities to promote and disseminate PAN's existence and its activities were carried out under this
component beginning in 1997. In the early PAN period, visits were carried out to the regional offices
where PIDI and CIDI projects were being executed and a critical analysis was undertaken to identify viable
initiatives to implement PAN. From its early establishment, PAN sought to reach out to the prefecturas,
seeking support for the project and a greater presence in the decentralized agenda of these actors. Efforts
were undertaken to reach agreements with municipalities, which would provide local counterpart support
for the PIDI centers. By the end of 2001, agreements had been reached with over 180 municipalities. The
main challenge was the political changes in the municipalities, which required re-starting negotiations with
the new leadership. Several assessments carried out at that time showed that the program was not well
known by families and that better efforts could have been done to improve the image of the program.

Substantial training activities to upgrade the technical team's capacity at national and regional level on
management and administration issues took place during PAN's implementation.

In terms of managerial strengthening, efforts were undertaken during 1997 to improve the management
mechanisms for the regions, considering the difficulties the prefecturas had to disburse their commitments
in terms of counterpart financing. A document on "Mecanismo Operativo para la Administracion del
Fondo Rotatorio y Fondo Consursable del PAN," was prepared under which resources would be organized
to flow from the financing entities (WB, IDB, etc) to the prefecturas, municipalities and implementing
institutions of the country.

Component 2. Service Delivery Support.
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Achievements under this component were satisfactory even though they did not reach the target numbers
established in terms of coverage, despite the multiple amendments and restructuring.

Description of the original design of home-based model. The original model, based on the 1992-93 pilot
experience, consisted of a day care center established in a private home to provide services (health,
nutrition and education) to a group of 15 children of mixed ages, by two or three women caregivers. The
centers operated eight hours a day, five days a week, 12 months of the year. Caregivers were provided a
stipend, roughly equivalent to the minimum salary. A third mother-educator was introduced when there
were more than five children under two years of age to provide early stimulation activities. When a PIDI
center was launched, resources were provided to improve the house that would serve as a center, a
facilitator was hired and an agreement was made with the nearest health center to provide care to the
children. The project made funds available on a mix grant-loan basis to the owner of the house for basic
rehabilitation, to meet minimum acceptable standards of security, space and services for day care activities.
Parents were expected to contribute to the day-to-day operations expenses of the centers, with US$2.25 per
child per month (declining to US$2.00 and to US$1.75 for a second and third child). This model was made
more flexible in the second amendment (1997), after which it was possible to create and support urban
community centers. Once the PIDI Project was placed under the umbrella of PAN, the day care program
also included rural centers (although not IDA financed), under a four to eight hour modality. The PIDI
centers also provided: (i) early educational services, and (ii) nutritional services and health monitoring as
described below:




                                                     - 15 -

(i) Early education services. At the day care centers, a program of educational activities was to be
provided based on free and directed play. The objective was to foster the psycho-social development of
participating children. The education services were supposed to be based on an assessment of the practices
prevailing in the community, a preschool development scale was to be applied by a project supervisor
within three months of the child enrolling in the day care center.

(ii) Health and nutrition services. Under the project, the children attending the day care centers who were
mildly malnourished received 70 percent of their daily age-adjusted nutritional requirements through three
meals a day. Children with moderate or severe malnutrition received 100 percent of their age-adjusted
nutritional requirements through six meals per day. The children were to have follow up visits and be
monitored to control their progress in terms of overcoming malnutrition, and receive follow up at the
referral health center. For those families without financial resources, the health fund (financed by IDA)
provided support to continue with the needed health care. The ceiling for this fund per center was US$5.00.
Additional resources for the health fund had to come from other sources (parent associations, patrons of the
project). The caretakers (mother-educators and facilitators) were trained to supervise food intake.

Several regional and seasonal diets were to be developed by the regional technical teams to respond to the
different cultures of Bolivia. Food was to be provided to the project through two modalities: (i) dry food
distributed by food aid and/or purchased locally (if financial resources were provided), and (ii) local
purchase of perishable commodities. Food was generally provided by the WFP. Through an agreement
between ONAMFA and the Ministry of Health (MPSSP), a minimum package of project services would be
provided to project beneficiaries, through preferential user fees. This national agreement was to be
complemented by local agreements with each health referral center. The basic package of services for those
children enrolled in the day care center also included completion of their full immunization regime within
six months of entering into the project. Additional services could be provided to specific subgroups
(malnourished children and pregnant women).

Assessment of achievements. Initially, there was progress expanding the coverage of the project to new
regions and establishing technical skills in the areas of initial education, health and nutrition, and
community participation. The manuals that guided the work of the regional technical teams, the
mother-educators and facilitators were completed and these teams were trained. In the early stage of the
project (up to October 1995), progress was achieved in improving intra- and inter-institutional
collaboration, establishing contacts with CIDIs and the Secretariats of Health and Education in the
Ministry of Human Development. During this period, the monitoring system showed that the project had a
positive impact on the health and nutrition status of the beneficiary children (see Annex 1).

Under the institutional framework of ONAMFA, FIS and PAN, the project supported the delivery of
integrated services (health, nutrition, food, and education) through home-based day care centers to children
0 to 6 years of age in urban and peri-urban areas. About 184 centers were created during the pilot phase
(out of 250 planned) and continued operating during implementation. Some of these centers operated from
the pilot phase until 2001. In 1995, the Health Fund was created and operating. Efforts were undertaken at
the end of this year to involve local representatives in all the project steps more intensively and to create
and work with parent associations.

The lack of counterpart funds greatly undermined the achievement of the targets established in the project.
In 1995, only 15 percent of the target established for coverage of children was met (3,210 children versus
target of 21,615). At the end of 1995, it was decided that the support for PIDI centers would concentrate on
the seven regions already in the program and no new regions would be added. Efforts to expand coverage
and maintain quality were carried out through intense supervision.


                                                     - 16 -

In 1996, IDA missions supported the PIDI model as a family center and its integration of nutrition, health
and education services. At that stage, a study was carried out to compare the PIDI and the CIDI models
and decide which one would be best and when. The results of the study showed that the PIDI model had
produced strong technical materials and good skills in educators through training and that the CIDIs could
be improved adopting some of these strengths. In 1996, the profile (academic and technical) for the
facilitator role (who provided support and supervision to the educators) was reviewed, their responsibilities
were increased with subsequent salary increase.

The original service delivery model was effective in terms of starting to achieve project objectives (this was
not the main reason for the various project amendments), but early on in implementation, there were strong
signals and evidence that the proposed model would not be the most efficient or sustainable arrangement to
achieve them, and there were continuous attempts to achieve sufficient expansion of coverage to make the
model sustainable. Implementation experience started to show that there were apparent contradictions in
the original model proposed by the project.

Some of the difficulties encountered were inherent to the model as designed including:

(a) inadequate housing in the poorest areas could not comply with the project needs, resulting in a
contradiction, since the requirements for the house to function as a center could not be substantially
reduced without endangering the health of the children;
(b) lack of options for the home owners to address maintenance expenditures for the day care facilities.
This was a serious problem, since these centers were intended to help the poor population and these parents
did not have the necessary resources;
(c) expansion of coverage was slower than anticipated; while some day care centers were being opened,
other existing centers closed. In some cases, once their house was rehabilitated, the caregiver felt no
commitment to the program and left it;
(d) many home owners lacked title to be able to open a PIDI, which was very common in the poor
communities. This also affected the rhythm of expansion of centers;
(e) there was no increase in demand for the creation of PIDI centers in project areas;
(f) there was strong competition between publicly-financed kindergartens, the previously existing early
childhood development centers (Centros Infantiles de Desarrollo Integral, CIDIs)     (1)and the PIDIs;
(g) lack of awareness and knowledge of the services and potential benefits of the project among
communities, significant effort was needed to reach and convince the communities and generate trust in the
project;
(h) contributions from the families were much lower than expected (50 percent of the expected amount)
since most of the demand was from single parent families, working in the informal sector. The educators
had to cover expenses of the day-to-day operations from their own resources, causing high levels of
dissatisfaction;
(i) high administrative costs of the project, in part due to slow expansion of coverage;
(j) the capacity for early stimulation and adequate nutrition practices for children was not being created in
the community since parents did not sufficiently interact with PIDI educators; and
(k) in some cases, the activities themselves became objectives (such as rehabilitating a house became an
end in itself versus maintaining the rehabilitated houses in the system).

As implementation progressed, additional challenges appeared. There were problems with the high degree
of child drop out and turnover of caregivers, educators, facilitators, beneficiaries and the PIDI facilities
themselves, which increased training costs and disrupted continuity. Some of the main reasons for the



                                                      - 17 -

children leaving the program were a change in residence, lack of interest on the part of the parents and lack
of payment of the co-payments. A significant number of PIDI centers (around 30 percent in 1995) were
closed after the two years agreed with the owner of the house to repay the loan for rebuilding the house.
This put great pressure on the regional technical teams to relocate the PIDI, maintain the children from the
closed units in the system, and ensure the levels of coverage of the project. There were also difficulties in
keeping the educators engaged with the model, due to the longer than foreseen hours of work (over 10 hours
a day) for a low stipend.

Given these challenges, the 1997 amendment made the model more flexible to include community-based
centers. The project also introduced education activities for parents and communities to increase awareness
of early child development needs and allowed for the possibility of including participating entities (NGOs,
municipalities) to deliver integrated child services, with support from the project.

1998 ­ 2001 PAN as implementing agency. Once PAN was created, CIDI, PIDI and PRONAM centers
were placed under one umbrella, and IDA financing supported centers in urban areas both under the
family-based and community-based modalities. PAN acted as an executing agency and slowly transformed
its role to supervise the execution of the program by other entities such as NGOs or the municipalities. The
nutritional support provided by the PIDI centers was considered to be crucial by parents and turned out to
be one of the main reasons why they enrolled their children in the centers. However, food provision was the
most expensive item in the program, comprising more than 50 percent of the cost. As implementation
progressed, reducing the cost of food provision was studied and many options were considered during the
1997-1999 period. This urgency was aggravated when WFP announced its decision to concentrate the
delivery of food in rural areas, abandoning its support to urban areas. Due to this, the Government could
not afford to finance the food not provided by WFP, and given the lack of the additional funding for food
from other donors, it was decided to reduce the amount of food provided at the day care centers. This
decision was not accompanied by an educational campaign for parents on the need to feed their children
outside of the time in PIDI centers and on nutrition needs, creating confusion among and problems with the
parents.

The delegation of service delivery allowed the program to put more emphasis on the quality of services
provided, training, supervision, promotion and community participation. Under PAN, the modalities of the
centers were: community urban, family urban, rural eight hours and rural four hours (IDA only financed
urban and peri-urban in project areas). The participating entities competed in a revolving fund by
presenting projects according to the criteria defined by PAN.

The delivery of services was mostly under the direct modality (traditional family or community center)
although, the indirect modality (education of parents) was piloted in Oruro and Cochabamba. Initially, this
modality was considered for remote areas, but later it was considered for urban areas (including IDA
financed municipalities). This modality was designed to increase coverage in remote areas and to maintain
them in the urban areas with the involvement of participating entities (mainly NGOs). The activities of the
indirect modalities were: (i) training of parents, every two weeks, for two hours, based on "Cuadernos para
padres y madres", and (ii) home visits once a month by the educator to monitor and provide support for the
achievement of planned activities. PAN worked with the IDB in the development of this modality. The
indirect modality was an effort to maintain and increase coverage, and a study/analysis by UNICEF
demonstrated that it was a viable instrument to make the centers more sustainable. The NGOs were
selected by the municipalities. Children under the indirect modality received monitoring, growth control,
and immunization. Families received education and orientation on the adequate feeding. They also received
information and support to help them develop initial education activities in the household.




                                                      - 18 -

By 2001, coverage of children under six reached 68,390 children (this figure includes all the children
covered by the program, not only those covered by the project). A total of 7,300 educators and facilitators
were trained. Approximately 2,500 centers were rehabilitated in urban and peri-urban areas. Other
achievements under PAN included: (i) the development of a large number of training materials (including
nine guides, with inclusion of gender issues, cassettes "Aprendamos Jugando"); (ii) the design and
implementation of a training system at the national level for mother-educators and facilitators (the Sistema
Nacional de Capacitación); (iii) negotiation and conclusion of agreements with 186 municipalities to
deliver health, nutrition, and education services to the targeted children; (iv) greater institutional
consolidation; and (v) launching of promotion and dissemination activities about the benefits of the
program. During these years, the program was successful in creating Parent Associations (Comités de
Padres) in almost all the day care centers opened by the program. Parents received information, more than
just training, on the benefits of program actions.

Even though there was progress in increasing coverage, the high cost of the program's interventions
(US$22.00/month/child) clearly made it unsustainable and the lack of resources from the municipalities
made it difficult to ensure the necessary financial support needed for them to undertake the responsibility.
In March 2000, the main challenges were: (i) to develop a transition plan considering the end of IDA
financing and scarce funds from the municipalities and prefecturas and (ii) to disseminate the program's
achievements and introduce them in the poverty strategy and rationalization of investments. The indirect
modality was being fine-tuned (there were exchanges between PAN and IDA teams on how to improve
implementation), but it was not really widespread enough to have a serious impact on coverage. By
December 2001, this indirect modality had not taken off as a viable option that could support the transition
to the decentralized levels in a more sustainable manner. The restructuring piloted such modality with
positive results (see Component 2 of the 2001 restructured project).

The Ministry of Social Assistance and Public Health created a Carnet de Salud Infantil (CSI) as a tool to
monitor the health of children under age five. The monitoring and promotion of growth was carried out
jointly by the personnel in the health centers and PAN personnel, based on the agreements signed by PAN
with the Servicios Departamentales de Salud.

One of PAN's achievements was the development of a form (formulario) to control the quality of the
service. In general, the results showed that the quality was borderline to good. There were problems
detected with the quality of the educators, their rapid turnover and their low degree of preparedness.
Greater training was necessary with more support from the facilitators and from the departmental teams.
Also, the beginning of service provision through third parties had an impact on the normal delivery of
services (due to lack of disbursements from the prefecturas). Securing support from the municipalities and
prefecturas proved to be a true challenge. PAN had not yet resolved this issue as of April 2004 (when IDB
financing was near conclusion) and the program would need to be supported by the national budget (at all
levels), together with WFP and other donors' support.

As the project monitoring system showed, and as described in Annex 1, the targets for the output indicators
were not fully met. Based on 2001 PAN data: (i) 84 percent of children under 2 years of age and 90 percent
of children under 5 years of age had undergone a monthly control visit for weight and height by the referral
health center (see Annex 1 for indicators by year); and (ii) 79 percent of children under age 6 enrolled in a
center for over six months had received all their immunizations. The project was successful in terms of
ensuring that children had their health card up-to-date, and in measuring and weighing them. Project
supervision indicated that in many instances, the tools were not being used correctly by the educators and
the growth charts were not being constructed properly. Field visits throughout the project showed that
particularly before 1999, the PIDI centers were clean, organized, with good quality of care and a strong


                                                    - 19 -

commitment by the educators. Further training was deemed to be necessary to train educators in the use of
the instruments, but the work within the centers was positively perceived.

The project's population coverage was below the targets established in the project at different stages. Even
though there was progress in reaching targets, this component was dropped at the 2001 restructuring,
mainly due to mutual dissatisfaction with the achievement levels and sustainability once IDA financing
would end. Administrative disorder in PAN was another reason not to continue implementation with this
institution. After several years of fine tuning implementation and sharing lessons learned from this and
similar projects, there was a new generation of nutrition and early childhood development projects that were
less paternalistic working at community level. Therefore, the 2001 restructuring was an attempt to test
these new modalities of intervention, putting more emphasis on an indirect one.

Component 3. Monitoring and Evaluation.
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
This component was successful in creating a monitoring and evaluation system that existed throughout the
life of the project. It developed and implemented an evaluation of processes with a Management
Information System (Sistema de Información Gerencial, SIG) and Impact Evaluations (EVI) of the
project. It achieved its goal of monitoring the progress of the project throughout implementation and several
evaluations were carried out. The results have allowed for the documentation of the positive impact that
project activities have had on the psycho-social development and employment opportunities for the project
beneficiaries.

The SIG achieved its objectives of evaluating the achievement of project targets, the project
norms/regulations and providing a database for the EVI. Interviews during the ICR mission showed that
the SIG, as initially created, was well designed, of good technical quality and well used, particularly in the
early years of the project, up to the transition from ONAMFA to FIS and then PAN.

At the start of the project (1995-96), the SIG included a management information system for the project
(SIGPRO - Sistema de Informacion Gerencial del Proyecto) and a financial management system (SIGAFI,
Sistema de Información Gerencial de Administración y Finanzas). The creation of the SIG and its
sub-systems was accompanied by an implementation and a training plan to be given by the regional
technical teams and caregivers/educators and facilitators.

Although the system was good at quarterly monitoring, it had some weaknesses regarding monitoring of
day-to-day activities. It seems the initial system was designed to provide economic rather than managerial
data and by October 1995, it was not providing adequate data for the management needs of the project. The
problems were not structural; however, and were resolved with technical assistance that introduced a
second version of the software. Another issue was the excessive number of data entry tools (38) that
sometimes gathered duplicate information. Finally, the training for the educators and the regional teams in
the collection and use of the data, was somewhat insufficient, yet the system was able to perform well until
the project was integrated under PAN.

Under PAN, the project was integrated with two other projects, thus a new system needed to be developed.
The development of that new system took some time (2000). Meanwhile, from 1997 to 2000, a SIG was in
place. During 1997, monthly statistics on coverage, process and results were produced with data from the
regional offices and sent back to them. The SIG was institutionalized as the only source to provide
information within the project. During 1997, "rapid evaluations" (evaluaciones rápidas) based on a sample
were developed as a tool to assess the quality of project interventions. These evaluations to be carried out
three times a year, focused on the institutional definition of the project, its implementation cycle, and the


                                                     - 20 -

beneficiaries' perception of the project. Although they were used from 1997, they became regular in April
1999. During this period, data collection tools were simplified on the basis of workshops with technical
teams at national and regional level, followed-up by training and monitoring. Unfortunately, a lot of the
data collected at the time has been lost due in part to multiple changes in PAN's management since 2001
and the perception that since the Bank was not financing the project that data was no longer important.

The supervision of the program cascaded from the departmental to the national team. Facilitators presented
periodic reports on the centers to identify problems and challenges. During 2001, under PAN, training was
provided to the technical teams of the participating entities (municipalities and NGOs) in application of the
following norms: financial management for disbursements, delivery of health, preschool, nutrition and
protection; and the use and application of forms for the monitoring and evaluation system.

Impact evaluations: Agreements with the Social Policy Analysis Unit (Unidad de Análisis de Política
Social, UDAPSO) and the National Institute of Statistics (Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas, INE) for the
EVI were signed in 1994, the technical team was created in September of that same year, yet there were
delays right away. The first Impact Evaluation was the baseline; however, delays in project effectiveness
and the lack of counterpart funds postponed this activity until October 1995 when it was launched by INE.
Yet, INE could not conduct the study in full during 1996 because it was preparing and launching a
nationwide Household Survey at the same time. It was agreed that the number of observations between
1995-1998 (two years after the mid-term evaluation of the program, which was to be based on the EVI)
would be reduced to four. The second EVI took place in 1998. The process to finalize this evaluation was
slightly delayed.

The EVI team worked with a Harvard team to carry out two more measurements in 1998 and in 2000 to
evaluate the impact of the program and illustrate its potential cost-benefit (see Annex 3)

Several other studies were carried out during 1999 and 2000, such as the study on learning achievements to
compare children who were in the PAN and those who were not (Estudio de Escolaridad), carried out in
coordination with the Ministry of Education, and a study on the quality of the attention provided by the
centers. The conclusions of the first study were only partially used because the methodology used raised
some questions.

In summary, PIDI is one of the most widely and systematically evaluated ECD programs in the region.

1997 New Component 4. Community Participation and Organization.
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This new component was introduced in 1997, with the following activities: (i) implement a system of
technical and organizational support that encouraged the participation of the community, parents, and
neighbors in PIDI activities; and (ii) develop and institutionalize social communications and adult education
programs in the areas of education, health, reproductive health, nutrition and family strengthening.

There were some immediate problems with the coordination of this component since a national coordinator
was appointed in February 1997 and then resigned in July. This delayed starting activities, but was
subsequently resolved.       One of the first actions was the development of a strategy for community
participation, which was carried out in a participatory way through a meeting (Encuentro Nacional de
Organización y Participación Comunitaria) in Tarija, with the participation of the regional coordinators
and the personnel responsible for each component at regional level. During 1997, a document defining the
eligibility criteria for selecting neighborhoods, educators and children was developed that included the input


                                                     - 21 -

of the regional offices. This document was validated during training workshops at national level with
participation of the regional technical teams, educators and facilitators.

Under this component, efforts were undertaken to organize inter-institutional coordination. Among the
institutions contacted were the National Ministry of Popular Participation (Secretaria Nacional de
Participacion Popular), and the Department for Community Strengthening (Direccion de Fortalecimiento
Communitario). In November 1997, a cooperation agreement between PAN and the National
Confederation of Neighborhood Committees (Confederación Nacional de Juntas Vecinales, CONAJUVE)
was signed.     Particularly after the popular participation law was approved (1994), collaboration
agreements were sought and reached with numerous parent associations and parent direction groups (
Directivas de padres), seeking better understanding and support for the program.

A document with the contents and methodologies for training was completed, to be considered by PAN
when defining a training/capacity building system. In September 1998, PAN developed a communication
strategy to disseminate the program and a guide for organization and community participation, which was a
key tool for the PAN departmental offices. The program contracted departmental technical experts in
organization and community participation who worked to create a relationship with the municipalities.
Under this component, agreements were prepared to work with the municipalities and departments. A
workshop on the Socialization of Strategies with the Municipal Governments (Taller de Socializacion de
Estrategias con Gobiernos Municipales) was held in late 1998 and early 1999.

The results of the rapid evaluations in 1997 showed a positive attitude among communities about PIDI.
The evaluation showed that the main reasons parents enrolled their children in the day care was the food
provided. But parents quickly realized the importance of the psycho-social development the children
experienced and began to understand the PIDI as an educational space.

The delegation of the administration of day care centers to participating entities was accompanied by the
development of terms of reference for the selection of these entities and a guide for project presentation.
Unfortunately, PAN did not make the PIDI program and its results better known. During implementation it
was clear that the municipalities did not fully understand what the program was about and the services it
could provide. The NGOs also did not know how they could work with PAN. It seems that even though
dissemination and awareness efforts were carried out during the PAN period, they were either not sufficient
or effective to warrant full participation by civil society.

In the 2001 period, emphasis was placed on building partnerships with the civil society and creating greater
awareness about the integrated attention to child development so that it would become a priority for the
communities and for the authorities at national, departmental and local level. A National Strategy for
Organization and Community Participation (Estrategia Nacional de Organización y Participación
Comunitaria) was developed and implemented at the departmental level. Numerous workshops were
carried out to present it and disseminate it. Communication activities on TV and radio were also financed
and although they had some impact, it was not enough to create sufficient support at the municipal and
department level to secure a commitment of funds for the program.




                                                      - 22 -

2001 Restructuring--New Components

Component 1- Initial Education
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component achieved its main objectives of increasing the coverage of formal education for children
ages 4-6, raising awareness, and training parents and the community on the importance of early child
development/education for 0-6 year olds. Over 125,000 children were enrolled in early education (versus a
target of 50,000), and around 2,160 preschool teachers, 210 pedagogical advisors, 520 teacher's assistants
(auxiliares), 30 departmental technical advisors, and 386 principals were successfully trained (see Annex
1). Out of the US$7.0 million allocated to this component, about US$5.3 million was disbursed. The
difference between allocation and final disbursement is mostly the result of substantial savings realized in
the construction of preschool units, due to the competitive bidding process followed and the fluctuations of
the exchange rate for contracts denominated in local currency.

The following activities were to be financed under this component and implemented by the MECD: (i)
integration of the PAN day care centers within the education system; (ii) expansion, rehabilitation and
equipping of preschool classrooms; (iii) training of preschool teachers and teacher's assistants on the new
preschool curriculum; and (iv) implementation of a communication campaign on the importance of early
childhood development, through radio and TV, printed materials and training parents and school boards.

The integration of PAN's day care centers covering children ages 4-6 within the education system was not
accomplished due to the lack of cooperation from PAN, which never provided the necessary background
information on the infrastructure needs, the status of the teaching force at the early education level and
learning materials. The MECD did expand access to initial education in the selected municipalities,
achieving the objective of increasing access. A total of 100 infrastructure projects were successfully
completed.

Teacher training was very successful. A biannual Teachers Training Plan was designed, a training
coordinator was hired, and training workshops were designed and carried out. A total of 404 working
groups ("Grupos de reflexión") were organized to participate in the training and 208 training workshops
were carried out and evaluated in 30 municipalities. The training was complemented with follow-up
classroom visits. Bimonthly reports were developed to document this experience with substantial inputs
from the teachers benefiting from the training. An evaluation of the training by the teachers showed a
significant acceptance of the training activities and an impact on teacher knowledge and practices. There
was substantial demand for this type of training to continue.

Learning materials were successfully designed, produced, and distributed and teachers were trained in their
use. Annex 1 contains a detailed list of each of the products produced. The quality of these materials was
seen as satisfactory by the teachers who used them in the classroom.

Several radio spots and TV programs were created for the communication campain. However, high costs
deterred MECD from launching a full fledged campaign. Instead, copies of these materials were distributed
to schools to be used as background materials to work with parents. The project was very successful in
working with parents of children attending preschool. Teachers received training on how to work with
parents, and parents participated in the organization of classroom libraries and in educational fairs
organized with support from the project.




                                                    - 23 -

Component 2- Early Childhood Development
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
This component, implemented by MSPPS through third party service providers, was successful in
improving the psycho-social and physical development of children under 5 years of age. These results were
achieved through educating and training parents on nutrition, basic health and early stimulation, and
through monthly visits of the children to health centers for growth and health status monitoring and by
annual screening for adequate psycho-social development. Out of the US$3.0 million allocated to this
component, about US$2.5 million was disbursed.

This component achieved its objective of developing knowledge, practices and habits, and new attitudes in
mothers or in people responsible for children that would allow for improvements in the nutrition levels and
early stimulation in children up to 5 years of age in the peri-urban areas of La Paz, El Alto, Cochabamba,
Sucre and Santa Cruz, considering the cultural context and the practices. The estimated population under 5
years of age was 260,000, there were approximately 1,010,448 women between 15 to 45 years and the
poverty threshold was 31 percent. The Directors of the Departmental Health Services (SEDES) defined the
districts, zones and neighborhoods of        intervention. The agreed targets (to reach 17 percent of the
population in each municipality) were exceeded both for mothers and children (by 225 percent in the case
of mothers and 118 percent in the case of children ­ see Annex 1). Thus, the project activities reached a
much larger number of individuals than planned (close to 48,000 mothers and over 50,000 children). Of
those 50,000 children, 53 percent were between 2.1 and 5 years of age and 47 percent were 0 to 2 years of
age. These results were different from planned, showing that efforts in family education had some effect.

The services were delivered through NGOs, or other institutions with experience in service delivery hired
by the MSPPS. The service providers were selected through a competitive public process and the MSPPS
determined each of the services, depending on the needs of the districts. The project successfully achieved
the goal of reducing the cost of providing health services (from $22 per month per child to $2 per month
per child). A total of 132 NGOs were invited to participate. Only 16 accepted and finally, nine were
selected. The NGOs delivering the services were remunerated based on performance (they had to meet the
coverage targets in their contracts and received a bonus if they achieved better results). In Cochabamba, the
arrangement with the NGO was different where a payment per child was established, and the results were
very good. NGOs were also contracted for supervision, with contracts based on the activities to be carried
out. The supervision carried out by individual consultants in El Alto was extremely successful and
cost-effective.

It is important to note that the time to prepare this component was extremely short. The pilot activities and
the training activities occurred from November 2002 to February 2003. The actual implementation period
was eight months (from April to December 2003). The pilot consisted of 10 percent of the population
targeted by the project to test methodologies, strategies, instruments, etc. The most relevant lesson learned
during this pilot period was the skepticism about the program among the mothers, due to previous
experiences. The project overcame this skepticism by showing results through project interventions. During
implementation, a total of 880 groups of parents (mainly mothers) were organized in the five municipalities
and monthly activities were organized. These consisted of: measuring or advice workshops, house visits,
technical workshops to develop skills of mothers based on their needs, meetings at the health centers and
with the communities.

This indirect service/preventive model tried to transform the potential skills of mothers into actual skills,
influencing the development of children through their mothers. This had a positive impact (see 2004
evaluation results) not only in child's health, but also in the family environment by improving the quality of
the household life. The project worked with mothers in the following topics: nutrition, health, early


                                                      - 24 -

stimulation, other subjects identified as relevant for these women (violence, women's and children's rights,
etc); and practical skills that could allow women to acquire a skill and transform this into cash for the
family.

The component successfully developed and used an information system (Sistema de Información del
Proyecto Integrado de Desarrollo Infantil) for data entry, data processing, producing statistical reports,
and monitoring reports and matrices. The main results of the impact evaluation are presented in Section
4.1. In terms of weight for age, PIDI developed a "graduated dish" as an instrument to be used by mothers,
independent of their education levels to ensure that children are fed an amount appropriate to their ages.
Regarding early stimulation, PIDI adopted the Nelson Ortiz scale as the indicator to make an assessment
file. The file identifies milestones achieved by children at each stage of their development. This information
system was found to be very useful, could be replicated and will be used by the Ministry after project
closing.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

N/A


4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
ICR Rating: Modest
The project's institutional development impact is considered modest. Project interventions had some impact
on the country 's institutions and organizations working on the field of early child development, but it was
limited.
Achievements:
he project helped the Government strengthen its capacity to formulate and evaluate social policy. There
were few achievements during 1993-2000 but, after the 2001 project restructuring the impact of the project
actions was enhanced. In addition, the successful completion of project outputs allowed for the integration
of these operational tasks in the implementing agencies to different degrees.

In terms of generating capacity for policy formulation in the sector agencies, the project contributed to the
definition of the MECD's early education policy, particularly since the project implementation unit was
under the supervision of the General Direction of Primary and Initial Education. The knowledge generated
by the project in terms of the objectives, contents and praxis of early education has established the
foundation from which the Ministry can formulate its policy, including establishing its priority among
competing mandates. Currently, the Ministry of Education is designing a project to support the provision of
early education by the municipalities, based on lessons learned from the project.

The Ministry of Education was the most successful in capitalizing on the project results. Since the
Curriculum Development Unit was responsible for the development of the early education curriculum, it
was easily integrated into the operation of the Ministry's deconcentrated units. The success of the training
activities, as acknowledged by their main beneficiaries (the teachers), provides strong incentives to integrate
this activity into the programs of the Teachers Development Unit (previously this Unit refused to
participate in the implementation of the project training component).




                                                     - 25 -

During the early implementation, women participating in the project increased their skills and their
opportunities to participate in the labor force. After the restructuring, women were trained on relevant
skills to create more possibilities to access work and their parenting skills to improve the development of
their children was also upgraded.

The project contributed to strengthening the capabilities of municipalities by seeking to reach agreements
with municipalities to manage day care centers. Even though the project did not provide training to
municipalities, under PAN, it did work directly with the municipalities, thus providing an opportunity for
some institutional strengthening. Unfortunately, there was the very low managerial capacity within the
municipalities and a large number of other priorities that captured the pool of resources available to the
municipalities.

During the last years of implementation, NGOs were trained under the project and they proved to be
efficient and invaluable in the delivery of social services to the community and the targeted population of
the project.

Shortcomings:

a) The project did not provide adequate tools or incentives to facilitate/foster the integration of the findings
generated by the project into the policy-making agencies involved in child development.
b)The project did not succeed in supporting the Government to establish sustainable institutions with the
mandate of mainstreaming early childhood development into the sector ministries and decentralized
agencies. The multisectoral nature of early child development made this task more challenging. At present,
UDAPE, the agency responsible for social policy, does not have an integrated policy of early child
development, even though it deals with several aspects of this subject.
c) During 2001-03, for the case of the Ministry of Health, the project was unable to mainstream the
knowledge generated on child nutrition and public health and early child stimulation to the relevant policy
units. For example, given the low institutional capacity of the nutrition unit (weak position and low budget
within the Ministry), the project's results could not be integrated into the unit's operational strategy.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Decision by the participating women to leave the PIDI Program. Women would participate in the program
for two years or less, leaving shortly after they had repaid their obligations to the project. This made it
difficult to increase the number of children and women covered by the project and the efforts to train these
mothers/teachers did not remain in the system.

The degree of preparedness and attitude of prefecturas and municipalities towards the project. The
municipalities were not prepared from a managerial perspective, to handle all the responsibilities that the
new decentralization and popular participation laws anticipated. In addition, the benefits of the program
were not immediately perceived, mainly due to a lack of knowledge about the program. Thus, the program
was frequently seen by local governments as a financial burden that would provide little political benefits.
Unfortunately, its direct beneficiaries (children) could not advocate for the program.

The effects of the 2000-01 economic crisis affected the possibilities that the program might have had to
receive more financial support from the prefecturas and municipalities. The crisis made the program
interventions even more relevant, yet it made it more difficult for the Government to pass it on to the



                                                      - 26 -

decentralized levels. Plus, the costs of the program were relatively high to be fully assumed by the
municipalities and prefecturas.

Irregular flow of food to the PIDI centers. An irregular flow of food damaged the credibility of the project
in the eyes of parents and the community and affected its sustainability. Most of the problems related to
food provision were due to internal problems of WFP and the lack of sustained commitment from the
donors to the program. Food inputs did not arrive to the centers on time and the menus had to be adjusted.
Also, the areas of focus of the project were different from the areas of focus for the WFP (example of
Santa Cruz), which had a significant impact on the project since food costs were approximately 40 percent
of the project costs.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Passing of the Decentralization and Participation Laws. The approval of these two laws a year after
project approval completely changed the implementation framework of the project.               As a direct
consequence of the Decentralization Law, ONAMFA was dissolved in 1995. The participation law meant
that greater participation needed to be given to the prefecturas and the municipalities in project decision
making, planning and implementation. It also gave local governments the leadership in matters such as
investment of budget resources, and as a result, placed the program in greater financial uncertainty, since
the municipal and departmental contributions were no longer automatic and agreements had to be
negotiated.

Lack of provision of counterpart funds. The continual lack of provision of counterpart funds, from even the
earliest years, seriously affected the achievement of the project targets. In 1995, UNDP provided bridge
financing to cover the percentage of the national treasury (TGN Tesoro Nacional de la Nación) for salaries
of the regional technical team, the educators and facilitators and the amounts to cover for the provision of
fresh food. In the following years, the lack of counterpart funds delayed opening centers and generated
disappointment in the personnel who did not get paid for months. In addition, since the project did not pay
the total labor costs, the project was penalized and excluded from receiving medical services. In 1994, the
government received a loan from the CAF (Corporación Andina de Fomento) to cover the counterpart
funds.

Lack of appointment of head of ONAMFA as IDA counterpart. The implementation of Component 1
depended on leadership from ONAMFA, thus it was seriously affected by this lack of appointment.
Moreover, in the first years of the project, ONAMFA did not provide all the agreed support to the project
and there was not enough support for the regional offices opening under the project.

Continuous changes in the implementing/executing agency. The dissolution of ONAMFA forced the
Government to designate another institution (FIS) to act as implementing agency. This proved to be only a
temporary arrangement, which lengthened the period of incertitude and it was not operational for successful
project implementation. Finally, the project was merged with other programs financed by other institutions
(PRONAM-6 and CIDIs) under the umbrella of the PAN ( Programa Nacional de Atención al Menor).
Then, the final restructuring designated the Ministries of Education and Health as implementing agencies.

Continuous changes in the heads of the agencies and in the technical personnel as a consequence of political
pressures. The continuous changes in leadership took a toll on the project and undermined its continuity
with the loss of professional capacity and expertise. When there was good leadership for certain periods,
the project experienced significant improvements in implementation (during 1995-1996 and 1999-2000).




                                                    - 27 -

Annual increasing percentage of counterpart funds. In a context of scarce counterpart funds and high
project costs, the increasing counterpart contribution as the project progressed was a problem that
eventually led to the need to reduce the size of the project through restructuring. An added complexity to
fulfill the increasing counterpart contribution was the fact that municipalities were also responsible to
provide resources, yet once resources were distributed by the government, municipalities decided how to
spend it. The Direction of PAN worked diligently during 1998-2000 to reach agreements with the
municipalities so they would take charge of day care centers and the activities under the program.
However, once mayors were changed after the elections, the whole process needed to be reinitiated.

Administrative procedures were not very efficient. Inefficient administrative procedures affected all the
levels of government--national and municipal--and also the project's administrative procedures.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Instability of the technical teams. During the first phase of the project, personnel turnover was high, due to
the perception of low wages and the reality of a heavy workload. The technical teams worked with
short-term contracts, with a high degree of uncertainty about the extension of contracts, and they were
subject to sudden changes once authorities were reappointed in the management team and the implementing
agency.

Lack of coordination between the President of ONAMFA and the PIDI Project Coordinator. This lack of
coordination had an adverse impact on the implementation of project activities since they did not jointly
agree on the regions to be incorporated in the project in 1995 and contracts renewals for project personnel
and contracts with providers were stalled.

High cost of PIDI interventions per beneficiary. The high administrative cost of incorporating new regions
and the nonachievement of the coverage of children made the program very costly. Also there was not
enough attention to the quality of the services provided. Since the institutional uncertainties and constant
changes affected the opening of new centers or the incorporation of new regions to the program, the
coverage was not able to be expanded enough to contribute to a reduction of costs.

Constant delays in presenting the Audit reports. Poor financial management was a constant throughout the
project. Audit reports were late, financial reporting was not of good quality and up to closing, the
implementing agencies were unable to identify the cost per project component. The latest audit report,
which should have been delivered by PAN once IDA financing ended for these components in December
2001, arrived only in November 2002, months after an agreed delay, and causing delays in the
implementation of the restructured project by the two new implemented agencies.

5.4 Costs and financing:
It is necessary to highlight that although there is evidence in the supervision reports that detailed
disbursement data by component was being compiled by the different executing agencies, the ICR team and
the government team have been unable to locate such data. The inability to locate that data is due to the
loss of information as the project documentation was handed over from one executing agency to another.
Therefore, some of the tables in Annex 2 are incomplete. Moreover the loan was denominated in SDRs, and
there have been substantial fluctuations in the SDR vs. the U.S. dollar, and the U.S. dollar vs. the
Boliviano exchange rate during the last ten years. These fluctuations account for the fact that some of the
numbers in Annex 2 do not add up. Specifically, the executed amount (US$25.5 million) plus the cancelled
amount (US$24.4 million) do not equal the total of the initial credit amount (US$50.5 million). Moreover,
much of the low disbursement of the Ministry of Education in the last two years is due both to competitive
bidding for construction of preschool units and to the fact that the contracts were denominated in local



                                                     - 28 -

currency and thus sensitive to changes in the Bolivianos vs. dollar exchange rate. These exchange rate
fluctuations did not affect the health component as much because the contracts with NGOs were
denominated in dollars.

The total project cost was around US$60.6 million of which IDA financed SDR 18.5 million (US$25.6
million equivalent or 50 percent of its original contribution). By credit closing, there was an undisbursed
balance of US$4.2 million that was cancelled. In 1999, US$20.0 million was cancelled from the expected
IDA financing and there were various adjustments in the Government counterpart financing percentages
during implementation, as mentioned earlier in Section 3.4. The Government counterpart was expected to
be US$29.8 million (including Government and beneficiaries). Actuals were US$18.6 million or 62 percent
of total (this amount includes the central government, the municipalities and prefecturas). Parents'
contributions totaled US$3.57 million. Cofinancing contributions (UNICEF, FIS, WFP, Government of
Italy, EU, UNDP, etc.) were approximately US$12.8 million. Due to weak financial management and lack
of proper documentation, it was not possible to classify the cost of project activities by components, except
for the 2001-2003 period, as shown in the tables in Annex 2.

As previously mentioned, availability of counterpart funds was a recurrent problem. In 1994, the project
could not open new PIDIs due to delays in project effectiveness. The pilot PIDIs were sustained during this
first year of project implementation with the Project Preparation Facility, a loan from UNICEF (US$0.95
million) and bridge financing from UNDP of US$0.76 million.

The project closing date had to be extended in several occasions (see Section 3.4) to achieve the project
targets and objectives. The project closing date was extended one more time to March 2004 to allow for
completion of the physical execution of activities in the Initial Education Component..

Throughout the Project, Audit reports were late and in one case, under PAN, they identified some
irregularities in the use of funds (misprocurement for US$115,000) that had to be returned to IDA. The
audit report to conclude and close the project activities concerning the PAN period was delayed,
endangering the implementation of the newly created project components.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR Rating: Unlikely

Project activities had an impact on the early childhood development sector in Bolivia and, after project
closing, there were signs that some of the project actions had left a seed of continuity including:

a) The curriculum implementation methodology supported by the project was completely institutionalized
in the MECS and it is inspiring changes in the implementation methodology for the primary school
curriculum;
b) The infrastructure blueprints were institutionalized as models for future construction of preschool units;
c) The mothers-leaders, was a very positive figure created and developed during the implementation of the
project activities;
d) There were lasting changes in knowledge and mentality regarding nutrition, care and development of
children in the families who participated in the project and their neighbors who learned through the
demonstration effect; and
e) The request from at least 56 municipalities to participate in the activities as presented and implemented
by the project in its early childhood stimulation component. These requests remain as a testimony of the



                                                     - 29 -

outreach and interest the program achieved during the last few years of implementation. This interest from
the municipalities demonstrates the increased awareness of the beneficiary population regarding the issues
involved in early childhood development and the need to receive these services and support.

Despite the above achievements, the sustainability of project achievements is rated unlikely for the
following reasons:

a) The day care centers had excessive dependency on external food aid;
b) There is a lack of resources to sustain the operating PAN day care centers. By the end of 2004, IDB
financing will end and the available resources for the centers will have to come from bilateral cooperation
(the Italians have been providing some support) and the WFP;
c) The lack of resources within the sectoral ministries (Ministry of Education and Ministry of Health) to
continue with the activities that had been financed during the last two years. In the case of early childhood
development activities under the MSPPS, all activities ended as of December 2003 and none of them were
included or absorbed by other ongoing programs within the Ministry; and ,
d) The family/home-based day care centers as designed and promoted by the project have practically
disappeared and most have been converted into community centers. Yet, despite this transformation, they
still have a high cost compared to other similar programs.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
During the ICR mission, it was observed and confirmed during interviews with different actors, that there
were no defined arrangements to incorporate the achievements of the project components into mainstream
policies and programs. The PAN management was working on a report to present possible options to deal
with the operating day care centers once the IDB financing ends so as to not lose the investment and
abandon the 60,000 children covered by the program. The main concern is that the municipalities and the
prefecturas will not be willing to absorb the cost of management of the centers, due to the financial burden.
Despite all the efforts carried out under the PAN to transfer these responsibilities to the municipalities, the
lack of management and financial capacity in the municipalities and the changes brought by the political
elections have made this task very difficult.

The activities carried out under the Initial Education Component are more likely to be sustained and
mainstreamed into regular operations, particularly in terms of curriculum and teacher training and
provision of teaching materials. For the Early Childhood Development activities, the Ministry of Health
will be conducting another study of the project impact on the quality of provision of services and on
beneficiaries' main health indicators to establish a foundation to advocate for a budget allocation for these
activities. The Ministry will also seek to integrate the lessons learned from the project into the feasibility
studies of incorporating information, education and communication into the SUMI (Seguro Universal
Materno Infantil) beneficiary package.

Regarding the possibility of IDA support for early childhood development activities, IDA had included an
operation in the pipeline, but it was postponed given the economic crisis affecting the country during the
last two years (2002-2003).




                                                    - 30 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Bank's performance during lending is rated as unsatisfactory based on many of the issues discussed
previously in Sections 3.4 and 3.5. The Bank team worked closely with the Government to design the
project, and piloted the day care model. Nonetheless, since the pilot period was only about one year, there
was not enough time to witness problems that would later emerge. With such a short pilot experience, the
Bank designed a project that was too large and complex with the knowledge acquired through the pilot
experience and the country's absorptive capacity.

The Bank team based its work on a close dialogue with the national technical team and sought to support
the national policies on early child development. The unsatisfactory rating is based on the overly ambitious
project design, with conflicting objectives, its complexity and poor sequencing, and its inability to establish
adequate mitigation measures/actions to tackle the risks identified in a country with serious and proven
institutional shortcomings and tremendous economic and social challenges. The institutional assessment of
the Government's capacity was weak and it overestimated the institutional capacity of an institution such
as ONAMFA with poor track record and short institutional life.

7.2 Supervision:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Since a marginally satisfactory rating cannot be used here, the Bank's performance during supervision is
rated as satisfactory with qualifications. In general, IDA was dedicated to supporting the Government's
efforts during project implementation. Numerous, frequent, and timely missions took place, technical teams
were well-staffed, and the Bank provided the technical assistance in order to adapt the project to changing
in-country realities. Once it became clear that the project was too large, the Bank team was proactive and
cancelled US$20.0 million of the credit --no small feat given the country's economic situation and the fact
that these were IDA resources. Taking all the above-mentioned efforts and the team's proactive
management into account, QAG gave this project a satisfactory rating for supervision.

Nonetheless, supervision arrangements were complex with a division of responsibilities between the
Country Office in La Paz and the task team in headquarters. While this arrangement was positive because
it allowed for daily follow-up and support of project activities, constant consultation, and first-hand
knowledge of the country and project reality, in practice this arrangement was cumbersome and created the
need for Government to consult with both teams. As a result, the Bank was, at times, slow to respond to the
challenges presented by the changing institutional and political environment. The Borrower perceived this
arrangement as adding a layer of bureaucracy.

Changes in task managers were unavoidable due to the extended life of the project. The preparation team
changed quickly after project approval, which may have affected project implementation in its early stages.
After 2000, the supervision teams were flexible to adapt to the Borrower's needs, and after the restructuring
they worked with the Government to test new modalities of delivering early childhood development services
and, as a result, lay the groundwork for future support for the country. Notwithstanding, the Bank teams
were not as proactive as desired. In face of the constant delays on the in presenting the audit reports, and
the provision of the counterpart funding (that seriously affected the implementation pace and achievement
of targets), the Bank did not enforce tougher measures to address the situation. In the end, it took IDA too
long to decide to radically restructure the project in 2001. However, since the 2001 restructuring and the
Bank team's proactive posture toward project supervision in the last few years, much has been achieved.



                                                    - 31 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Bank's overall performance is rated unsatisfactory for the following reasons:

a) Ambitious and complex project design given the country's economic and institutional reality;
b) Inadequate mitigation measures to tackle project risks;
c) Cumbersome supervision due to division of responsibilities between country office and headquarters;
d) Bank's unwillingness to enforce tougher measures when constantly faced with insufficient counterpart
funds seriously affecting project implementation; and
e) Long delay in radically restructuring the project.

Nevertheless, even within the above mentioned context, the Bank's team carried out a good dialogue with
the Borrower throughout implementation, including frequent supervision missions, and once it significantly
restructured the project in 2001, significant and positive changes were achieved.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Borrower's performance during the preparation phase is rated unsatisfactory, mainly due to the same
reasons detailed above for the Bank. The Borrower was overly optimistic about its own capacity to carry
out the activities as planned in the project. It did not adequately weigh the challenges of implementing the
project, namely the financial gap and the high costs to be faced and absorbed in future years. The Borrower
failed to acknowledge the weaknesses of ONAMFA to handle the execution of the project and was too
optimistic regarding the possibilities of succeeding in implementing the civil sector and incorporate
ONAMFA to it.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Government's performance during implementation is rated unsatisfactory with some qualifications,
particularly due to the efforts in the last two years of project implementation. While the Government was
always supportive of the project objectives and actions, there was not real ownership from early on, thus
the project was not perceived as a priority by the successive administrations. There were several changes in
implementing agencies, severely compromising institutional memory and project implementation, and
counterpart funds were never adequate. Once ONAMFA was dissolved, the Government took some time to
find an adequate implementing agency for it. Furthermore, there were extended delays and failures to
comply with the presentation of the annual audits reports throughout the first eight years of the project.
Even though there were key sectoral documents elaborated by the Government, it failed to adopt and
implement a strong strategic framework on integrated childhood development that would have backed the
project as a national priority with the necessary resources at all levels. One must mention, though, that the
enhanced roles of municipalities and civil society made it more difficult for the Government to control the
final level of financial and political support to the PIDI model and its actions.

It should be stated, however, that the Borrower was always seeking options to improve the sustainability
and long term impact of the project. It maintained a constant dialogue with the Bank to express its concerns
and find solutions to deliver ECD services better adapted to the country's reality. Moreover, once the
project was restructured in 2001, the Government's commitment to it, both in terms of institutional support
and counterpart funds improved significantly, enabling the project to achieve remarkable progress in the
last few years of implementation.



                                                      - 32 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The performance of ONAMFA and FIS presented weaknesses in terms of coordination with the program
and effectiveness, even though both agencies sought, and somewhat managed, to accelerate project
implementation. On the other hand, PAN's experience as an implementing agency was generally
satisfactory, with qualifications. PAN's management concentrated efforts on coordinating ongoing
programs in the area of early childhood development. Its leadership of project implementation was positive
in terms of project progress, despite some management problems. A weakness common to all these
implementing agencies was their failure to maintain personnel in the technical teams to provide continuity
and incorporate knowledge and experience into the country's institutions.

The performance of the Ministries of Education and Health from 2001-03 is rated as satisfactory. Both
agencies were professional in managing the implementation of project activities and worked closely with the
Bank, other partners involved in the project (NGOs and municipalities), and beneficiaries.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory
Overall Borrower performance is rated as unsatisfactory because its support for project objectives did not
translate into continuity of technical teams in the technical units, nor availability of counterpart resources.
Furthermore, there was a failure to comply with its fiduciary obligations (in terms of counterpart funds and
timely financial audits). However, the situation significantly improved since the 2001 restructuring,
enabling the Borrower to obtain significant progress in the last few years of project implementation.

8. Lessons Learned

Design

Carry out in-depth institutional analysis. A thorough institutional analysis is key to the future success of a
project. An institutional analysis can help to focus a project and avoid a project that can be proven to be
overly optimistic. This project had a very complex design from an institutional point of view since, in
addition to trying to improve the nutritional status and early development of children, the project planned
too many tasks for the implementing agency.

Assess feasibility. The with regards to the scope and size of projects, particularly when working with
untested institutions in countries with weak institutional context.

Establish clear objectives. It is important to establish few specific objectives with adequate sequencing and
ensure that they do not conflict with each other.

Consider sustainability of project activities. It is important to assess the sustainability and cost of project
activities, particularly in terms of the burden it may create on the country in the medium and long term. If
this aspect is not estimated appropriately and the project actions end, the disappointment from the
beneficiary population can be very difficult to overcome.

Understand local context and reality. It is important to test new ideas and models for a sufficient amount of
time before expanding a pilot program. Moreover, project preparation should first assess existing
in-country experiences (such as the CIDI model in Bolivia) while trying to adapt models from other
countries. In the case of this project, the home-based day care model was perceived by some people in the



                                                      - 33 -

Government as an idea introduced by the Bank team after a pilot test that was too brief. The competition
between other existing day care models produced strains in a country with already weak institutional
capacity.

Implementation

Designation of appropriate implementing agency. The designation of the implementing agency is important
from the very beginning, but it is also crucial to consider the most appropriate institution when changes are
proposed by the Government during implementation. From an institutional perspective, it is important
where the implementing agency is located. In the case of this project, the agency initially chosen to execute
the project lacked the institutional history and standing to provide strong leadership in an unstable
institutional context. The designation of a Ministry as the implementing agency would have provided more
legitimacy and advocacy to the PIDI Program. It is important that the implementing agency has enough
built-in capacity to carry out the project implementation, even if it might need support and technical
assistance.

The Bank should be flexible but proactive when encountering problems in implementation, particularly
when a client is facing significant changes in institutional structure or institutions. The Bank should act
earlier and more forcefully to address problem projects, and the Bank's response to implementation
problems must occur soon after the problem is recognized. The Bank should also be open to trying new
implementation arrangements, particularly given the significant institutional and/or social and political
changes in the country. Rather than focusing only on output indicators, the Bank needs to focus on the
developmental impact of its investments.

Effects of the political context. The political environment in a country can affect the outcome and outputs
of a project. For project success, both political support and good governance are crucial for achieving the
development objectives. In this project, political support wavered during the length of the project, and it
seems that it was never a priority in the political agenda.

Involving NGOs in the delivery of health services can improve effectiveness of project interventions.
Participation of civil society organization in project implementation can frequently bring positive effects to
the beneficiaries. The involvement of NGOs can increase ownership of the project interventions by
targeted beneficiaries, foster increasing awareness of project content and benefits and help to lower costs.
In this project, third party service delivery proved to be a viable and effective means to deliver health
services and change parents' attitudes and practices regarding the care and upbringing of their children.

Complexity of multiple donor commitments. While the involvement of multiple donors, such as
international donors and relief agencies, may bring a substantial amount of resources to support a country's
program, the financing and implementation can be very challenging and complicated for a country like
Bolivia, particularly if the commitments do not materialize.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
On letters dated September 30 and October 20, 2004, the Borrower provided comments and observations to
the ICR. Those comments, whenever appropriate, were taken into account and incorporated into the final
document The Borrower expressed its general agreement with the draft ICR, but manifested its strong
disagreement with the rating of its own implementation and overall performance (Annex 10) for the
following reasons:



                                                      - 34 -

"a) In 2001-2003, the transfer of program execution has clearly demonstrated that the Government has the
institutional capacity to guarantee fulfillment of the program's child development objectives through the
existing structures of the Ministry of Health, Sports and Education.
b) The institutional problems of the program arose from the program's design, which did not take into
consideration the capacity and institutional projection that ONAMFA had at the time. Program design is a
matter of shared responsibility between the World Bank and the GOB.
c) Project's design problems did not allow the GOB to adopt measures for program adjustments to
country's reforms arising from the Structural Adjustment Program executed by the GOB with support from
the World Bank.
d) The commitment placed on the program by the GOB is undeniable considering that it reached 89% of
foreseen allocation while the World Bank reached only 50%. This demonstrates that the Government of
Bolivia fulfilled its counterpart commitments above those of other financial institutions."

The Government prepared an evaluation of the PIDI, which can be found in the electronic project files. The
executive summary of this document has been included in Annex 9.

(b) Cofinanciers:
The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) provided the following comments to the draft ICR:

a) The report was thorough and raised all the relevant issues concerning both the project as well as the
institutional and policy-related issues that contributed to the identified problems in design and execution.
Those issues should set the tone for future incursions in the field.
b) The references to the IDB in the context of this ICR appropriately reflect IDB's activities in the sector
and with the PAN.
c) Sector sustainability would require sound sector policies. The IDB invited both institutions (IDA and
IDB) to reflect on the role they played in financing a program that had no solid policy basis on which to
rest. Both programs had components which supposedly were going to help finance the formulation of such
policies. However, they failed to reach this goal. This resulted in a vicious cycle whereby the absence of a
sound policy generated little or no institutional capacity, which, in turn, hindered the Government from
reaching a consensus on what such policy should be. All future lending for a new program should take this
into consideration, and should be preceded by the definition of this policy.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Official comments were not provided by NGOs which participated in the Early Childhood Component.
Nonetheless, the impact evaluation of that component included positive comments from those NGOs on the
performance of PIDI during the 2001-2003 period.

10. Additional Information

Notes

1. CIDIs existed in Bolivia before the creation of the PIDIs. Open in community buildings, they worked in rural and urban areas
that intended to provide similar services to those proposed by the project. The number of children was much higher, around 30
children. And the quality of their early childhood education was not as strong as the one in PIDIs.
2. This is aggregated information covering PAN centers, which does not separate IDA financed and BID financed centers.
Separate information for both institutions is not available after 1999.




                                                               - 35 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Table 1. A - Outcome/impact indicators (1993-2000)
 Indicator                         Target                                 Actual/latest Estimate
                                                                          (2001)
 Percentage of children who were   To diminish the percentage of          Impact-Study 1996 ­ UDAPSO: project
 malnourished when they entered    children with severe and moderate      efforts to significantly reduce the
 the program who improved their    malnutrition enrolled in PIDI centers, nutritional problems of children were not
 nutritional status.               during project implementation.         durable. Other key factors influencing
                                                                          the children nutritional situation were
                                                                          undermining the project's achievements.

                                                                          The monitoring system showed evidence
                                                                          that the percentage of children with
                                                                          inadequate growth diminish in time.
                                                                          (from 19% to 16% between 2000 and
                                                                          2001).
 Percentage of children who were   To diminish the percentage of          Impact Study 1996 ­ UDAPSO:
 underdeveloped for their age when children in the lower levels of the    The percentage of Children in alert
 they entered the program, who     development scale, enrolled in PIDI.   situation, who had stayed over one year in
 improved their cognitive status.                                         the program, was reduced by 35%; and with
                                                                          children staying over 2 years, by 88%.
                                                                          Conclusion: PIDI had an impact on the
                                                                          psico-social development of children.
                                                                          Impact was greater on the areas of
                                                                          language/audition and social/personal
                                                                          skills.

                                                                          First semester 1999: Alert 14%
                                                                          Second semester 1999: Alert 6%
                                                                          Second semester 2000: reduction of risk
                                                                          (alert and medium-lower) from 53% to
                                                                          26%.
                                                                          (data among semesters are not comparable)
 Percentage of children graduating 100% for all children participating in SIMECAL results - 1999:
 from the project who entered      the project                            It found that the level of achievement for
 primary school.                                                          PAN sample of children were lower than
                                                                          the average national results, for the three
                                                                          areas of Language, Maths and motor skills.
 Increased employment                                                       Available studies (see Annex 7) showed
 opportunities for women                                                    that participating women had:
 participating in the program                                             - gained skills to earn resources;
                                                                          - had more opportunities to get a job.
                                                                          - Women had more chances to obtained
                                                                          stable jobs and jobs with higher earnings.

Indicators provided by PAN and Ministry of Health




                                                           - 36 -

Table I.B - Output Indicators ­ Original Project Components
 Indicator                                                          End     of    Project Actual/Estimated Output
                                                                    Target                (2001)
 N. of Children in home-based and center-based day care centers     130,050 children      68,390 children
                                                                    (originally); or
                                                                    80,000 (PAN target)
N. of PIDI centers created                                          8,670 centers         2,553 centers
Number of mother-educators and facilitators trained                 18 198                7,315mother-educators
                                                                    mother-educators      trained
                                                                    trained
Implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system              Monitoring         andDuring the PAN period, an
                                                                    evaluation      systeminformation     system  was
                                                                    implemented        andrunning.   This    had  five
                                                                    funtioning            levels:
                                                                                          ·      Educator
                                                                                          ·      Facilitator
                                                                                          ·      Technical expert on
                                                                                          Departmental monitoring
                                                                                          ·      Departmental
                                                                                          Director/Departmental
                                                                                          technical team;
                                                                                          ·      Executive
                                                                                          Director/National technical
                                                                                          team.
                                                                                          The    information    system
                                                                                          provided bi-annual report on
                                                                                          the program.
Percentage of parents who pay full child fees last six months       90                    n.a
Percentage of normal children or with mild malnutrition enrolled in 100% for all children 61% (29,705) first semester
PIDI centers who have received weight and height controls once a in the project           1999);
moth                                                                                      86% (56,288) second
                                                                                          semester 2000);
                                                                                          84% of children under 2 and
                                                                                          90% of children
Percentage of children enrolled in a PIDI center for six months or  100% for all children Children under 2 years of
longer, who have received full vaccination                          in the project        age:
                                                                                          66% (second semester
                                                                                          2000);
                                                                                          69% (first semester 2001);
                                                                                          79% (second semester
                                                                                          2001).
Percentage of Prefecture's annual social budget contributed to the55                      n.a
project
Average cost per child per month                                    US$30 per month per US$22 per month per child
                                                                    child
 Number of urban municipalities covered                             34                    34 municipalities covered




                                                           - 37 -

Table1.C ­Impact Indicators ­New Project Components
 Indicator                                     Target                         Actual/Estimated
 Component 1. Initial Education
Coverage of children aged 4-6 years in initial Increase coverage for this age Coverage increased by higher enrollment.
education in the 30 municipalities covered by group.                          (125,000 children reached)
PIDI.
Parent awareness of importance of early        Increase awareness of parents  Greater awareness among parents achieved
childhood education (children 0 to 6 years of in the 30 municipalities coveredthrough dissemination of information
age)                                           by the project                 materials, meeting and work with the parents
                                                                              in these municipalities.
Component 2. Integrated Child
Development
Percentage of children aged less than 6 years n.a                             - 56% of children 0-5 increased their weight
who have been at least 6 months in the                                        (independently of adequacy of initial weight);
project and have improved their nutritional                                   - the percentage of children 0-5 with
status                                                                        adequate weight went from 75% to 76% by
                                                                              the end of the project.
Percentage of children aged less than 6 years n.a                             -        more than 68% of children increased
who have been at least 6 months in the                                        their levels of stimulation after the second
project and have improved their stimulation                                   measurement;
levels.                                                                       -        94% of children reached adequate
                                                                              stimulation levels (from 81% at project
                                                                              beginning)
 Degree of influence on parents knowledge,                                    -        PIDI filled an educational vacuum in
 early stimulation practices and nutrition.                                   parents in the areas of early child
                                                                              development;
                                                                              -        The project influenced changes in
                                                                              eating habits;
                                                                              -        Mothers highly valued the knowledge
                                                                              acquired through the project in the areas of
                                                                              early child development.




                                                            - 38 -

Table I.D - Output Indicators ­New Project Components
 Indicator                                    End of Project Target in Actual/Estimated Output
                                              PAD
 Component 1. Initial Education
Integration of PAN centers in the formal      110,000 children covered        125,000 children covered.
school system                                                                 Children enrolled in pre-schools in the 30
                                                                              targeted municipalities
Expansion and rehabilitation of classrooms at 80% of existing preschool       100% of infrastructure projects finalized
initial education level                       classrooms improved
Equipment of classrooms                       Classrooms equipped             All classrooms improved have been equipped.

Teacher and teacher's assistant training      2000 teachers and teachers'     2161 teachers trained
                                              assistants trained in the       213 pedagogical advisors trained
                                              preschool curriculum            500 assistants (auxiliaries) trained
                                                                              385 principals trained
                                                                              405 equipos de reflexion created
Communications campaign                       Massive communications          - Spots and materials elaborated but the
                                              campaign in 32 municipalities   massive campaign not undertaken

                                                                              - Instead, materials were copied and
                                                                              disseminated to pre-schools (unidades
                                                                              educativas).

                                                                              - Materials to train parents elaborated

                                                                              - Materials created:
                                                                              10 TV spots
                                                                              10 radio spots created and distributed
                                                                              10 radio programs created and distributed
                                                                              10 TV programs on production
                                                                              2 afiches with 50000 copies distributed
                                                                              60 district fairs to disseminate initial education
                                                                              Other materials on initial education aspects
                                                                              (prevention of violence and children'
                                                                              development)
Elaboration, Impression and Dissemination     - 5 Modules on Integral - -     -        70,000 copies of booklet on family
of informational and educational materials    Development created             convivencia distributed;
for Parents                                   80,000 modules produced and -            30,000 copies of three different stories
                                              disseminated                    distributed;
                                                                              -        10,000 copies of a children' game
                                                                              distributed;
                                                                              -        10,000 copies of bed stories on audio,
                                                                              copied and distributed;
                                                                              -        70,000 tallimetros (measurers ) printed
                                                                              and distributed.
Parents Training                              110,000 children reached        125,000 children reached

                                              70% of parents and 60% of       2 workshops with parents and school boards (
                                              school boards have participated Juntas Escolares) carried out by a 100% of
                                              in at least two workshops       teachers, trained under the project
Component         2.   Early       Childhood
Development
Number of children aged less than 6 years20,000                               50,217
covered
 Number of mothers trained                      10,000                        47,557




                                                            - 39 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




Table 2A - Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                   Appraisal     Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                            Estimate      Estimate         Appraisal
Components at Appraisal
1. Sector policy Dev. And
Management Strengthening        4.0             n.a               --
2. Service Delivery Support    133.6            n.a               --
3. Monitoring and               2.6             n.a               --
Evaluation.
4. Community Participation
(created in 1997                                n.a               --
restructuring)
Subtotal                                       53.8
Final Components
1. Initial Education            --              4.3               --
2. Early Childhood              --              2.5               --
Development
Total Project Costs            140.2           60.6              43%




                                                      - 40 -

Table 2B - Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
 Project Element                                   ICB         LCB         Other         NBF     Total Costs
 1. Rehabilitation Fund                                                     2.86                    2.86
                                                                           (2.86)                  (2.86)
 2. Goods
 2.1 Vehicles & Office Technology                  1.74                                             1.74
                                                  (1.63)                                           (1.63)
 2.2 Furniture and Equipment                      16.82        10.00        5.50                   32.32
                                                 (13.50)       (8.00)      (4.36)                 (25.86)
 2.3 Food Commodities                                                                    51.44     51.44
                                                                                         (0.00)    (0.00)
 3. Consultancies
 3.1 Studies & Technical Assistance                                         4.56                    4.56
                                                                           (3.65)                  (3.65)
 3.2 External Supervision                                                   2.79                    2.79
                                                                           (0.94)                  (0.94)
 4. Salaries & Operating Expenditures
 4.1 Civil Service Support                                                  2.31                    2.31
                                                                           (1.10)                  (1.10)
 4.2 Salaries                                                               6.58                    6.58
                                                                           (2.37)                  (2.37)
 4.3 Administrative Costs                                                   3.42                    3.42
                                                                           (1.45)                  (1.45)
 4.4 Stipends to the caregivers                                            17.36                   17.36
                                                                           (7.32)                  (7.32)
 4.5 Opening costs of centers                                                             8.88      8.88
                                                                                         (0.00)    (0.00)
 4.6 Health Fund                                                            1.29                    1.29
                                                                           (0.67)                  (0.67)
 4.7 Training                                                               2.66                    2.66
                                                                           (2.10)                  (2.10)
 5. Miscellaneous
 5.1 PPF Financing                                                          2.19                    2.19
                                                                           (0.75)                   0.75
   TOTAL COSTS                                    18.56        10.00       51.52         60.12    140.20
                                                 (15.13)      (8.00)      (27.57)        (0.00)   (50.70)
Note: Due to the long implementation period, the numerous implementation agencies and the quality of the historic
information, it was not possible to reconstruct the method of procurement for all the categories.




                                                        - 41 -

Table 2D Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


 Component                              Appraisal Estimate         Actual/latest estimate            Percentage of
                                                                                                        Appraisal
                                       IDA      Gov.     Cof        IDA       Gov.       Cof.    IDA      Gov    Cof
 Components at Appraisal                                                                         0.00     0.00   0.00
 I. Sector policy Dev. and              2.7     1.3                  n.a       n.a               0.00     0.00   0.00
 Management Strengthening
 II. Service Delivery Support          46.5     18.5    68.5         n.a       n.a       16.4    0.00     0.00   0.00
 III. Monitoring and Evaluation         1.5     1.1                  n.a       n.a               0.00     0.00   0.00
 IV. Community Participation             --       --                 n.a       n.a               0.00     0.00   0.00
 Final Components
 1. Initial Education                    --       --      --         3.8       0.5         --    0.00     0.00   0.00
 2. Early Childhood Development          --       --      --         2.1       0.4         --    0.00     0.00   0.00
 Total Project Cost                    50.7     21.0    68.5        25.5      18.6*      16.4


Note1: Figures might not add up due to rounding and exchange rate fluctuations (between XDR and dollars).
Note2: There were three cancellations of the Credit amount (the last at closing), totaling US$24.4 million.
* includes amounts provided by the National Treasury, departments (Prefecturas) and municipalities




                                                           - 42 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

There was no economic analysis carried out at the beginning of the project. However, one of the Project
evaluations carried out in 1998 (Evaluating Preschool Programs when length of Exposure to the program
varies: A nonparametric Approach. J. R. Behrman, Y. Cheng, P.E. Todd) analyzed the potential
cost-benefit ratio on the bases of some plausible assumptions. We are attaching below the conclusions of
that evaluation, followed by three of the tables supporting the conclusions, to complement the results
presented in Section 4.1.

"Conclusion

The paper analyzes the impact of a preschool program in a developing country using a relatively large,
non-experimental dataset. To do so, the paper generalizes matching methods to allow the program impact
to vary with continuous treatment dose (the duration of time spent in the program) and to depend in a
flexible way on the age of the child. We also develop a marginal effect estimator that assumes that program
participants with differing durations of participation can be made comparable by conditioning on observed
child and family characteristics. Advantages of the marginal effect estimator are that it does no require
assumptions on the process governing selection into the program, can accommodate the case where
selection into the program is on unobservable characteristics, and can be implemented using data only on
program participants.

We applied several different estimators to evaluate the effectiveness of the PIDI program in Bolivia, which
is aimed at improving early cognitive skills and nutrition. We developed a dynamic model for the decision
to enroll children that provided an interpretation for the treatment impact estimates and guided our selection
of matching variables. Impact estimates based on cross-sectional regression estimators indicate a positive,
statistically significant effect on test scores. Our matching estimators show that test scores gains depend
strongly on duration of exposure to the program, with positive effects observed for children who
participated at least 7 months (for the marginal estimator) and increasing effects observed with longer
durations. However, the impacts on the anthropometric outcomes are not precisely estimated.

Our cost-benefit analysis considered a few different channels by which the program might be expected to
have an effect on lifetime earnings, including a direct effect of the program on earnings operating through
greater physical stature and cognitive skills and indirect effects operating through less time spent in school
to achieve a given level of education and/ or higher educational attainment levels. When all the channels are
combined, under the assumptions of our simulations, the expected benefit of the program outweighs the
costs by a fair amount."




                                                      - 43 -

- 44 -

- 45 -

- 46 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/1992                   2    DIVISION CHIEF(1), TASK
                                             MANAGER (1)
              09/1992                   4    DIVISON CHIEF (1), TASK
                                             MANAGER (1), HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1), SENIOR
                                             NUTRITION OFFICER (1),
                                             ECD CONSULTANT (1)
              01/1993                   1    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/1993                   4    DIVISION CHIEF (1),
                                             TASK MANAGER (1),
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1),
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST(1)
              05/1993                   3    TASK MANAGER (1),
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1),
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              10/1993                   3    TASK MANAGER (1),
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST(2).

 Supervision

              03/30/1994                1    PRINCIPAL OP. OFFICER (1)        1               1
              03/30/1994                3    EARLY EDUC. SPEC. (1);           S               S
                                             PRINCIPAL OP. OFFICER (1);
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC. (1)
              12/06/1994                3    EARLY EDUC. SPEC. (1);           S               S
                                             NUTRITIONIST (1); PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH SPEC. (1)
              12/20/1996                4    CONSULTANT (2); HEALTH           S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (2)
              02/27/1997                3    ECONOMIST (1); HEALTH &          S               S
                                             POP. SPEC. (1); CONSULTANT
                                             (1)
              01/15/1998                2    CONSULTANT (1); HEALTH           U               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              03/30/1998                1    HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)            U               U
              04/30/1999                2    POP. & HEALTH SPEC. (1);         S               S
                                             EARLY CHILD DEVELOPMEN
                                             (1)
              12/22/1999                1    PROJECT SUPERVISION (1)          S               S
              03/26/2000                4    EARLY CHILDHOOD (1);             S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); HEALTH



                                              - 47 -

                                                  SPECIALIST (1); NUTRITION
                                                  SPECIALIST (1)
                11/17/2001                   3    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                                  CONSULTANT (2)
                03/28/2002                   4    TEAM LEADER (1); PRIVATE          S    S
                                                  SECTOR SPEC. (1);
                                                  CONSULTANT (2)
                05/23/2003                   3    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                                  CONSULTANT (2)


 ICR
                04/23/2004                  2     1 CONSULTANT                      S    S
                                                  OPERATIONS, 1
                                                  CONSULTANT
                                                  INSTITUTIONAL
                                                  ASSESSMENT



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     20                          100
  Appraisal/Negotiation                          24                          118
  Supervision                                    94                         472*
  ICR                                            11                           30
  Total                                        149                           720
*includes data from FY1994 to FY1999.




                                                  - 48 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 49 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 50 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Bank's Documents

   Staff Appraisal Report. June 1993
   Aide Memoires 1992-2004
   Back to Office Reports 1992-2004
   Project Status Reports
   Attrition in the Bolivian Early Child Development Project and Some test of the Implications of Attrition.
   H. Alderman & J. Behrman. Augut 1999.
   "Summary of Report on the Impact of the Bolivian Integrated PIDI Preschool Program". J. Behrman, Y.
   Cheng and Petra Todd. March 2000.
   "Evaluating Preschool Programs wen Length of Exposure to the Program varies: A Nonparametric
   Approach". J. Behrman, Y. Cheng and Petra Todd. Revised version January 2001.

Borrower's Documents

   "El Proyecto Integral de Desarrollo Infantil y su Efecto sobre las Condiciones de las Mujeres
   Participantes". Ramiro Coa/Luis Felipe Lopez Calva. Marzo 1997.
   "Resultados de la aplicación de la Prueba de Funciones Basicas". Informe Preliminar. Programa
   Nacional de Atención a Ninhas y Ninhos menores de seis anhos. Marzo 2000. SIMECAL evaluation
   (Sistema de Medición y Evaluación de la Calidad de la Educación, Ministerio de Educación, Cultura y
   Deportes).
   "Evaluación de Impacto del Proyecto Integrado de Desarrollo Infantil" . Ministerio de Salud y Deportes.
   Proyecto de Reforma de Salud. 2004.
   Estudio de Impacto del Programa de Capacitación a Educadoras del Nivel Inicial en Municipios
   Priorizados. Resultados Claves". Ministerio de Educación. Febrero 2004.
   "Informe Cualitativo. Evaluación de Impacto de la Segunda Etapa del Plan de Capacitación a Asesores
   Pedagógicos, Docentes, Auxiliares y Educadoras del Nivel Inicial". Ministerio de Educación. Febrero
   2004.
   "Informe Final del Proyecto Integrado de Desarrollo Infantil". Ministerio de Educación. Marzo 2004."
   "Informe Final: Servicio de Consultoria para el Análisis y Evaluación de Impacto de Medio Término del
   PAN". Consultoría Asesoría y Servicios Latina S.R.L. Bolivia, 2000.
   Estudio de Costos del PIDI. 1996. Dirección de Operaciones del PIDI.
   Primer Informe Semestral de Gestión 2001. Ministerio de la Presidencia. PAN. Bolivia, Agosto 2001.
   Primer Informe Semestral de Gestión 2000. Ministerio de la Presidencia. PAN. Bolivia, Agosto 2000.
   Primer Informe Semestral de Gestión 1999. Ministerio de la Presidencia. PAN. Bolivia, Agosto 1999.
   Informe Consolidado de Actividades del PIDI 1997. Ministerio de la Presidencia. FIS - PAN.
   Informe Anual de Progreso del PIDI. Septiembre 1993-Septiembre 1994. ONAMFA.
   Informe de Desarrollo del PIDI - Abril 1994. ONAMFA.
   Componente de Monitoreo y Evaluacion. Documento Metodológico. Diciembre 1997. PAN.
   Sistema de Cpacitación. 1997. PAN.
   Criterios de Evaluación de Educadoras, Ninos y Barrios. PIDI. 1997.




                                                   - 51 -

Additional Annex 8. Institutional Evaluation of the PIDI Project

Summary
The institutional evaluation argues that the project's original design overestimated both the country's
institutional capacity and the quality of governance arrangements to carry out the project successfully. At
the time the project was formulated, public sector institutions in Bolivia were being rebuilt or redefined
under a new economic framework established to reverse the severe economic crisis of the mid-eighties. The
original design of the project required significant financial resources and an intensive use of highly qualified
skills for organization, management and coordination. This situation created serious challenges for the
Borrower to achieve the project targets and maintain the original commitments for project performance.
In addition, in spite of Bolivia's efforts to modernize its public sector, the country experienced serious
governance problems. Government's effectiveness in social sector institutions was particularly low due to
problems with policy stability, political interference and resource adequacy and predictability. Also, there
were problems with transparency and accountability in the public sector. These limitations introduced
inadequate incentives and reduced the capacity of the Borrower to implement the project as originally
planned. When the project was redesigned eight years after it was declared effective, the fit between the
new project's requirements for capacity and institutional building and the country's institutional context
had substantially improved, thus explaining the different results obtained in terms of project management
and achievement of objectives.

Background

For the preparation of the ICR, an institutional evaluation was carried out to provide additional information
for evaluating the Integrated Child Development Project (PIDI). Given the strong emphasis of the project
on building new approaches, institutions and capacity for formulating social policy and delivering early
childhood development services, the ICR team considered that a thorough analysis of the institutions and
their role in project performance and outcomes would strengthen the ICR discussion and lessons learned.
This evaluation draws from a desk review of the project's main documents, and fieldwork based on
interviews with key project officers from both the Government and the Bank.

This report evaluates the fit between the project's institutional requirements and the country's institutional
context and capacity. Given several amendments and project restructurings, the evaluation focused on an
analysis of the original project design, including its modifications during 1995-99, and the restructured
design of 2001, when the project components were changed. For each period (1993-2001; 2001-04), this
report discusses both the institutional context and capacity, including the role of these factors on project
performance. For the first period, the report also evaluates the appropriateness of the institutional
assessment carried out during the project preparation.

I. First Period 1993-2001

The original project design, as stated in the SAR, required an implementing agency with sound institutional
capacity in terms of financial and human resources, the authority to align the project with other sectors'
and agencies' objectives and work programs, and an adequate institutional context in terms of political
support and governance .The general project tasks to be carried out by ONAMFA were the following: (a) to
formulate social policy involving     other sector agencies and donors; (b) to support the establishment and
consolidation of Government's capacity to formulate food and nutrition policy, and monitor its implementation; (c)
to provide high quality integrated social services; (d) to set institutional arrangements for addressing sectoral
weakness in service delivery and to establish partnerships with the private sector; and (e) to develop and implement
new approaches for early childhood development interventions. However, during implementation, not all of



                                                       - 52 -

these elements were present, or in the degree required. This situation negatively impacted project
performance as discussed below.

A. Institutional Context

Political Support

During PIDI's duration, wavering political support and governance issues constrained its implementation.
During its first years of implementation, the PIDI Project did not have political support due to
disagreements about several elements of the project design between the newly-elected administration (1993)
and the Bank.

Early on, the Sanchez de Lozada administration (1993-97), was very reluctant to give political support to
the project due to concerns about it's scale, financial implications, institutional set-up and service delivery
model. Although the project had a very conservative implementation timetable to start, there was a
significant increase in the scale of operations, costs and fiscal impact beginning in the final years. Given the
macroeconomic fragility and the ambitiousness of the administration's reform program, the Government
perceived this project as a potential fiscal burden that could divert resources from other priorities.
Moreover, the new government did not believe (as the previous administration had) that enough food aid
would materialize to finance the incremental recurrent costs in the future, which made it question the
financial sustainability of the project.

The main disagreements on the institutional and service delivery arrangements were: (a) the new
administration considered that the project should be aligned with the newly proposed Public Sector Reform
(different from the Civil Service Reform proposed by the previous administration) and the Popular
Participation Law (PPL). The first reform implied a restructuring of the Executive Branch with the creation
of mega ministries such as the Human Development Ministry, which questioned the existence of ONAMFA
as the leading social development agency; (b) the centralized structure of the project conflicted with the
PPL because it did not include the option of having municipalities delivering the services. ; and (c) in the
short period the project had already been operating, there were many problems in implementing the
non-formal Early Childhood Development (ECD) service delivery model, which made the Government
question its feasibility.

As a corollary of this situation, there was no counterpart funding available during 1994, and very few
project activities were carried out in that year. This delayed the implementation of the institutional
strengthening component, including the incorporation of ONAMFA into the Civil Service Reform (CSR)
proposed by the previous Government but not implemented under the Lozada administration. Political
support and project implementation improved from mid 1995 onwards, after the Government and the Bank
agreed to carry out a study addressing the above-mentioned issues including the revision of its sources of
financing. Finally the government creates the national "Programa de atención a la Niñez (PAN) that
integrates the different ECD models being implemented in the country at the time. Yet, this support was not
of the magnitude needed to address the substantial financial and institutional requirements of the project
and the sustainability of its activities.

The subsequent Banzer/Quiroga administration (1997-2002) supported the project to a certain extent. On
one hand, it maintained the previous administration's institutional arrangements (PAN) thus ensuring
project continuity, and placed it under the Ministry of the Presidency, so as to facilitate the transfer of
project operations to the decentralized units (Prefectures and Municipalities), and to ensure that they
provided funding to the project. On the other hand, the administration was very slow to address PAN's


                                                      - 53 -

pressing management and fiduciary problems as raised by the Bank. Only in 2001,the administration
requested project restructuring to continue working on child development issues.

When the project became decentralized, the political support from the Prefectures and municipalities was
not uniform. For some, child development issues were not a high priority among their numerous mandates
and they refused to provide the counterpart funds. Also, municipalities run by the opposition parties,
refused to fund the project as a political tactic. In addition, every time the local government changed,
political support to the project had to be re-negotiated. This situation was never resolved during this period
and jeopardized the project's sustainability.

Governance

The country's governance issues permeated the functioning of all the implementing agencies during the
early is time and diminished their capacity to carry out the project in a satisfactory manner.

One of the main governance problems faced by the project under ONAMFA's management was political
interference. ONAMFA, an already politicized agency, never provided the institutional support required by
the project. Rather, it tried to use the project resources to satisfy ONAMFA's political commitments. As a
result, there was always pressure on the project to hire political appointees and to share the project's
resources, which was resisted, but inevitably caused tension. This situation persisted, to a lesser extent,
when the project was transferred to the "Fondo de Inversión Social"(Investment Social Fund FIS), mainly
since the scale of operations of FIS was much larger than the project. However, this interference increased
when FIS's resources diminished.

Another difficulty that the project faced was the high turnover of project staff, including its coordinators.
The high turnover is explained by the rotation of public servants with every administration change and the
lack of a merit-based civil service in the public sector that could retain qualified workers. At project design,
it was expected that the upcoming Civil Service Reform (CSR) would address this issue. However, in
1995, the Sanchez de Lozada administration first scaled down, and then essentially did not implement the
CSR. Therefore, ONAMFA's position to be financed by the CSR disappeared. Although the subsequent
administrations re-conceptualized and re-designed the CSR, the weak political support explained its limited
success. Hence, the project only benefited from highly qualified staff in the very first years.

In addition, the project faced problems with the timely disbursement of counterpart funds and with its
financial management procedures. At project design, it was expected that the SAFCO Law (Integrated
System of Financial Administration and Control) would improve efficiency in public administration
through the provision of crucial information for expenditure planning and control. However, the Law was
never fully implemented, and therefore, the budget planning, cash management operations and control
remained very inefficient processes. Committed funds were-allocated through the fiscal year, and the
ex-ante control of cash release requests was weak. Therefore, although counterpart funding was committed
in every annual budget, it seldom respected the agreed schedules, thus making it difficult for the PCU to
plan its disbursements.

Moreover the project suffered from the high degree of informality and low accountability in Bolivia's
public sector, as reflected in the Bank's supported 2000 Institutional and Governance Review. Thus the
project's financial management was somewhat weak particularly under PAN Finally, since the regulation
for line agencies to submit their financial statements was not enforced, the Controller General could only
assist the project in a very limited way with its auditing services.




                                                     - 54 -

Finally, ONAMFA did not have the mandate to establish and enforce agreements with other sectors to
deliver child care services. Thus, by late October 1995, the project still had not signed agreements with the
Ministry of Health.

B. Evaluation of Institutional Analysis

At the time of project design, it was not customary to carry out formal institutional assessments as part of
project preparation. However, for this project an institutional analysis of ONAMFA's capacity was carried
out. Although this is significant,, given the complexities of the project design, unfortunately, the analysis
focused only on ONAMFA's organizational capacity issues, leaving out governance and other institutional
context issues.

Regarding the institutional context, the assessment concluded that the country had already established the
initial conditions and launched the necessary reforms ­ i.e., Minor's Law, Civil Service Reform, the
SAFCO Law and revised organization's statutes ­ to safeguard ONAMFA from political changes.
Concerning ONAMFA's institutional capacity, the assessment argued that the restructuring and on-going
modernization program would address the existing issues. Also, the creation of the National Council of
Social Policy (CONAPSO) and Social Policy Analysis Unit (UDAPSO) was seen as a first step to ensure
leadership in social policies formulation, and thus, provide key support to ONAMFA in the implementation
of the project tasks. However, in spite of these achievements, the assessment identified major weaknesses in
the capacity of the administrative systems of the ONAMFA's regional offices.

The assessment recommended including an institutional strengthening component in the project to: (i)
consolidate the restructuring of ONAMFA; (ii) build the institutional structure necessary for the
implementation of the project; and, (iii) enhance the policy foundations for the agency's programmatic
goals. The assessment also recommended developing a special provision in the project to finance
ONAMFA 's incorporation into the ongoing CSR, in order to access qualified human resources to carry
out the project tasks. These actions were seen to be adequate to diminish the risks that the extensive project
implementation demands might outstrip ONAMFA 's managerial and administrative capacities.

However, regarding governance issues, the assessment did not identify: (i) the risk of low political support
from the next administration, (ii) the possibility that the CSR, SAFCO, etc, would not be, or only partially,
implemented, and (iii) the culture of low accountability prevailing in the Bolivian public sector
administration.

Also, the assessment did not take into account other institutional changes in that period (e.g.,
decentralization) that may occur during the life of the project and challenge its implementation, even though
previous Bolivia specific World Bank studies had identified that a main factor explaining the low
performance of social policy organizations was their highly centralized structure).

Finally, although the assessment identified political interference as a key issue, it did not evaluate the
impact of project financing on increasing the pressure in the implementing agencies to employ certain
personnel or seek ways to divert funds towards activities only marginally related to the project. Fortunately,
it seems that the project staff resisted such pressure.

In terms of institutional capacity, the assessment did not recognize the poor level of management skills
prevalent among civil servants and underestimated the time required to implement the proposed financial
and information systems.




                                                     - 55 -

In summary, the assessment mainly focused on the organizational capacity of ONAMFA, and overlooked
important aspects of the agency's institutional environment. Also, it assumed that political priorities would
be similar between political administrations, which had seldom been the case in Bolivia. Moreover no
additional institutional assessments were carried out when the original design was amended and
restructured to correct these oversights.

C. Institutional Capacity

Given the institutional analysis, the project included an Institutional Strengthening component with two
subcomponents designed to build the Government's capacity for policy formulation and strengthen
ONAMFA's management capacity. Due to problems with political support and institutional instability,
project activities in the policy formulation subcomponent were hardly carried out. Therefore, the discussion
below will focus on the management strengthening subcomponent.

Activities to strengthen ONAMFA's capacity included technical assistance to accompany its integration in
the civil service reform (CSR), and to set up financial and information systems that would support
ONAMFA's regional offices with their tasks. Later, as the project structure became decentralized, these
activities were adapted to the new structure. However, the original institutional strengthening activities
were neither sufficient to guarantee good project implementation, nor were they implemented in their
totality. Therefore, ONAMFA's institutional strengthening process was never consolidated. Moreover, the
slow pace of implementation jeopardized the expected sequence of the project operations.

The weak institutional environments of ONAMFA, FIS and PAN required institutional strengthening
activities that were different than those proposed in the SAR and subsequent revisions. According to the
project documents, during the time the project operated under ONAMFA, it experienced constant
management deficiencies and lack of leadership that were mainly a result of ONAMFA's lack of previous
experience in carrying out a complex, nationwide project like PIDI. Moreover, the decentralization process
made project administration more cumbersome. To confront these challenges, all of those agencies
(ONAMFA, FIS, PAN) required on-the-job training in management skills (e.g., organizational leadership,
strategy formulation, planning and programming, etc.), and high degree of flexibility to adapt the technical
assistance to respond to the new challenges. However, this type of technical assistance was never provided,
although it is unclear the reasons why.

Management deficiencies also continued when the project went to FIS and later to PAN under the Ministry
of the Presidency. Even though the problems with leadership improved, the institutional capacity of these
institutions was not sufficient to implement the project at the pace expected by the Bank. These two
agencies struggled with the project's financial management and in maintaining sound work practices (e.g.,
low coordination between units.) The low availability of experienced staff and the low capacity of the
agencies to punish poor work performance and ensure adequate accountability may have played a role.
Also, the continuous need to adapt the project operations to its many restructurings may have imposed a
significant burden on project management, since operational manuals and other administrative and financial
reports had to be rewritten.

During the third year of project implementation under PAN, the Bank rated the project management
performance as unsatisfactory. Even though the project was performing well in terms of implementation
targets, management did not have the vision or analytical skills to move the project forward to the transition
towards the closing of the Credit. The measures taken were insufficient to guarantee the sustainability of
the project.




                                                   - 56 -

 Moreover, in spite of PAN's key institutional location (under the Presidency), the agency did not have the
enforcement mechanisms to ensure counterpart funding, even from the Prefectures of the ruling political
party, which were appointed by the Executive.

In sum, during the first period of the project, none of the implementing institutions had the adequate
institutional capacity to carry out the project.

II. 2001 Restructuring New Components

Institutional Context and Capacity

With the last project restructuring in 2001, the project presented a better fit between its design and the
country's institutional context. In addition to having political support from the country's top authorities, the
new design protected project implementation from the country's governance problems. First, for the health
component, the activities were to be contracted out to third parties, and thus, somewhat shielded from
political interference and administration flaws. Second, the magnitude and complexity of the activities of
the new education component were much less than the original design. For example, these activities did not
have to be carried out between the central and subnational governments, which eliminated the problem of
accessing counterpart funding and the burden of delegating tasks. Third, in this same component, there was
previous work within the Ministry of Education on the activities to be carried out, which facilitated its
implementation while providing legitimacy.

Although the Ministry of Education had weak capacity to implement the project due to the agency's
administration limitations, the fact that the activities were part of the Ministry's program provided
sufficient political support for finding solutions that permitted the satisfactory implementation of the
project.

From the institutional capacity point of view, the health component had a steep learning curve regarding the
implementation of a contracting-out modality that was completely new. However, after a slow start, the
contracting capacity was built and lessons were learned. Moreover, the fact that this component was placed
organizationally under the on-going World Bank Health Reform Project, guaranteed sufficient institutional
autonomy to implement the activities satisfactorily.



LESSONS LEARNED

1.       When projects will be implemented under two or more political administrations, political support
for the project from the subsequent administrations should be analyzed carefully. This is important,
particularly, if the following administrations imply a change in governing political parties. Task managers
should explore reasons and/or incentives of subsequent governments to give political support to the project.
In addition, they should study the feasibility of using existing or establishing new institutional arrangements
to build this political support.

2.       Governance issues can limit the institutional capacity of implementing agencies to carry out the
project. As noted in this project, good project management and the availability of adequate resources to
implement the project successfully was hindered by political interference in policy-making and allocation of
resources, lack of a merit-based civil service that could guarantee permanence of highly qualified staff, and
informality in public financial management.




                                                     - 57 -

3.       Institutional assessments should analyze the risks and timing of implementation of on-going
institutional reforms if the project will depend on the results to guarantee its institutional feasibility. The
PIDI Project placed high expectations on the on-going Civil Service Reform as a mechanism that would
guarantee availability of highly qualified staff to the project. However, this reform was scaled-down and
later canceled with the new administration.

4.       With large-scale, highly complex operations,          seasoned agencies with strong institutional
capacity and adequate legitimacy should be selected for implementation responsibility. However, the
PIDI Project, guided by its institutional analysis, agreed to have risks of working with ONAMFA (a
traditionally weak agency undergoing modernization) as the implementing agency, in direct contradiction
with the above. It as assumed that the institutional strengthening componenet would be sufficient to
overcome ONAMFA's lack of experience. However, institutional strengthening always takes time to
achieve its objectives and there is never a guaranty that they would be implemented.

5.       When projects identify and tackle key governance issues in their design, the probabilities of
success increase substantially. In the PIDI Project, to respond to the governance problems, the 2001
restructuring involved the participation of the private sector in the delivery of indirect early childhood
development activities, yet with a strong regulation from the public sector. Thus, the project minimized the
problems of high turnover of qualified staff and informality in public financial management. Political
interference was also minimized through the use of transparent mechanisms to contract out the private
sector firms.

6.       Good leadership is key to guarantee successful project implementation. With the project
restructuring, the implementation of the initial education activities were transferred to the Ministry of
Education. Although it took longer to launch and implement these activities due to the low efficiency in
public sector performance, the strong leadership of the Vice-Minister of Education provided solutions to
overcome these problems and achieve the products and objectives of this component.




                                                     - 58 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution

INFORME FINAL DE CIERRE DEL PROYECTO INTEGRADO DE DESARROLLO
INFANTIL (PIDI). RESUMEN EJECUTIVO
El Proyecto Integrado de Desarrollo Infantil (PIDI) se ejecutó entre 1994 y 2003; en su desarrollo pueden
distinguirse 4 fases, en virtud de las diferentes entidades ejecutoras responsables de cada una de ellas.
Organismo Nacional de la Mujer y la Familia (ONAMFA), Fondo de Inversión Social (FIS), Programa de
Atención al Niño (PAN) y los Ministerios de Salud y Educación.
El Proyecto fue diseñado como una ambiciosa intervención multisectorial. Esta característica dificultó su
manejo, ya que se requerían políticas de Estado sobre el Desarrollo Infantil Temprano, que no existían al
inicio del proyecto, ni se generaron a lo largo de su ejecución. Asimismo, se requerían definiciones sobre su
correspondencia a un sector social específico, aspecto que no llegó a concretarse.
En los 10 años de ejecución, el proyecto se vio afectado por las reformas estructurales que vivió el Estado
Boliviano y las modificaciones institucionales y de competencias que éstas implicaban y por las
indefiniciones sobre la pertenencia de la entidad ejecutora a una sola institución.
Cada ejecutor tuvo sus fortalezas y sus debilidades, en la primera etapa se destaca el haber preparado un
proyecto innovador y multisectorial, pero su inicio fue frustrado por cambios externos. El FIS tuvo la
virtud de poder manejar un proyecto, a pesar de que, por esencia, era una institución de inversión social y
no operativa. Sin embargo, le tocó afrontar la difícil fusión de 3 diferentes proyectos, con las implicancias
correspondientes. El PAN hizo el esfuerzo adaptativo de funcionar en un escenario con debilidades
institucionales locales (prefecturas y municipios), pero tuvo serios problemas de gestión. Y finalmente, la
ejecución por parte de los sectores, fue relativamente corta, no buscó la integralidad, pero se planteó metas
mucho menos ambiciosas que en las fases anteriores y pudo cumplirlas dentro de plazos establecidos.
El área técnica del proyecto presenta interesantes aportes para la construcción de una política estatal sobre
el desarrollo infantil temprano, que podrían rescatarse y profundizarse para dar respuesta a la necesidad de
otorgar servicios de cuidado integral a los menores de 5 años del país, con énfasis en los habitantes de
zonas excluidas.

La evaluación del desarrollo del proyecto permite identificar áreas claves para su proyección:
·        Las debilidades institucionales pueden contrarrestarse con un diseño que incorpore a la sociedad
civil a la gestión misma de la prestación de servicios.

·        El fomento de la demanda de este tipo de servicios, puede incentivarse mediante la difusión de
experiencias aplicadas, sus efectos y sus costos referenciales, a fin de que las instancias correspondientes,
canalicen sus solicitudes y participen en la ejecución.

Intervenciones como la estudiada pueden ofrecer impactos en temas clave para el país, como (i) la morbi
mortalidad infantil, (nutrición y acceso a servicios de salud) (ii) la adecuada incorporación de los niños al
sistema escolar (acceso a servicios, desarrollo infantil óptimo para garantizar un inicio exitoso de la
escolaridad, padres involucrados y con habilidades básicas para aportar en el proceso), (iii) el
fortalecimiento de habilidades laborales, productivas y de manejo personal de educadoras y padres de
familia y (iv) capacitación a docentes de educación inicial en una línea constructivista, reforzando
intervenciones de la Reforma Educativa.




                                                     - 59 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Comments




                                      - 60 -

- 61 -

- 62 -

