Page  1
March 25, 1999
His Excellency Herbert Muller
Fernando Candia 
Ministerio de Hacienda Palacio 
  de Comunicaciones 
Piso 19 Av. 
Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. 
Calle Oruro s/n Casilla 
Postal No. 9917 
La Paz, Bolivia
Excellency:
Re:
Credit No. 2531-BO (Integrated Child Development Project)
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Please refer to the above captioned Agreement, as amended.
1.
In response to your request, aimed at streamlining the procedures and 
responsibilities for Project implementation on the basis of the experience collected 
by the executing agencies and the administrative reorganization provided by the 
Popular Participation Law, the Decentralization Law, and the establishment of the PAN, 
and reallocating part of the proceeds of the Credit, we are pleased to inform you that 
the Association agrees to amend the Credit Agreement as follows:
"WHEREAS B will read as follows: "(B) the Borrower intends to mobilize 
local resources and obtain loans and grants from bilateral and multilateral 
development organizations (the External Assistance) to assist in the carrying 
out of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the agreements to 
be 
entered into among the Borrower and such organizations;".
2.
The following paragraphs of Section 1.02 are amended to read as follows:
"(a)
"Project Manual" means the Project Administrative and Operations 
Manual, ratified by the Ministry of the Presidency (as hereinafter defined), 
as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Association;
(b)
"NPO" means the national Project office, an administrative 
structure established within the PANMinistry of the Presidency (as hereinafter 
defined) for the purposes of implementing the PAN (as hereinafter defined) and 
within 
it, the PIDI (as hereinafter defined) and serving together with the 
Eligible Participants (as hereinafter defined) as Project executing entities;
(c)
"Regional Office" means an administrative structure established 
pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement for the purposes of 
coordinating and supervising the implementation of the PAN (as hereinafter 
defined) and within it, the PIDI (as hereinafter defined) Projectgram in a 
particular region;
(g)
"Day-care Facility" means each of the community home-based 
day-care facilities or center-based day-care facilities in a community 
participating in the carrying out of Part B of the Project;
(i)
"Health Fund" means the fund to be created by the Borrower, 
through the PANMinistry of the Presidency (as hereinafter defined), pursuant 
to Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement;
(j)
"Health Grant" means any of the grants to be made by the Borrower, 
through the PANMinistry of the Presidency (as hereinafter defined), pursuant 
to Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement;
(k)
"IES" means the impact evaluation survey carried out biannually by 
the Borrower;
(o)
"PAN-Health Center Agreement" means each of the agreements entered 
Page  2
into pursuant to Section 3.10 of this Agreement;
(s)
"PIDI" means the Borrower’s IDA-funded integrated child 
development project (Proyecto Integral de Desarrollo Infantil) being 
implemented under PAN (as hereinafter defined), to provide integrated child 
development services approved by the Borrower’s Supreme Decree 23415, of March 
5, 1993;
(u)
"Rehabilitation Fund" means the revolving fund to be created by 
the Borrower, through the PANMinistry of the Presidency (as hereinafter 
defined), pursuant to Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement, to provide 
Rehabilitation Grant-Loans;".
3.
Consequently, all references to "Administrative Manual", "CDD", "CDD Regional 
Office", "Day-care Center", "IHS" and "ONAMFA Health Center Arrangement" are replaced 
by references to "Project Manual", "NPO", "Regional Office", "Day-care Facility", 
"IES" and "PAN-Health Center Agreement".
4.
Paragraphs (d), (e), (f), (m), (p), (q) and (r) of Section 1.02 are deleted. 
Consequently, all references to "Civil Servant Agreement", "CSRP", "CSRP-ONAMFA 
Arrangements", "Manuals", "ONAMFA Positions", "ONAMFA-MPSSP Arrangement" and 
"Operations Manuals" are deleted, other than the references to "ONAMFA Positions" and 
"Civil Servant Agreement" that remain in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1.  The 
corresponding sentences are modified so as to preserve the meaning of the remaining 
text.
5.
The following new paragraphs are added at the end of Section 1.02: 
"(y)
"Competitive Grant " means any grant made or proposed to be made 
by the Borrower through FPANIS (as hereinafter defined), out of the proceeds 
of the Credit to an Eligible ParticipantEntity (as hereinafter defined) for a 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined); 
(z)
"Competitive Grant Fund" means the fund created within the 
PANMinistry of the Presidency (as hereinafter defined)  to provide Competitive 
Grants to Eligible Participants (as hereinafter defined) for the purposes of 
establishing and operating Day-Care facilities under Part B of the Project, in 
accordance with the Project Manual; 
(aa)
"Decentralization Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1654 of July 
28, 1995; 
(bb)
"Eligibility Criteria" means the eligibility criteria, 
satisfactory to the Association, for a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) to 
obtain financial support through the Competitive Grant Fund;
(cc)
"Eligible Participant" means any public or private entity that 
provides integrated child development services in the territory of the 
Borrower, and to which the Borrower, through the PANMinistry of the 
Presidency, proposes to make or has made a Competitive Grant;
(dd)
"PAN" means the "Programa Nacional para la Atención a Niños y 
Niñas Menores de 6 Años", created by the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 24557 
of April 7, 1997, and modified in the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 25017 of 
April 20, 1998;
(ee)
"Popular Participation Law" means the Borrower’s Law No. 1551 of 
April 20, 1994;
(ff)
"Subproject" means any specific integrated child development 
activity to be carried out by and Eligible Participant utilizing the proceeds 
of a Competitive Grant;
(gg)
"Subproject Agreement" means the agreement between PAN and any 
selected Eligible Participant regarding the Day-Care Facilities to be 
established for the purposes of Part B of the Project; and
(hh)
"Community Education Activities" means training and nonformal 
education for parents, older siblings and other child care providers on child 
development, child health, early stimulation, education and nutrition.".
(ii)
"Community Education Activities" means training and nonformal 
Page  3
education for parents, older siblings and other child care providers on child 
development, child health, early stimulation, education and nutrition.".
6.
Consequently, all references to "ONAMFA" are replaced by references to "PANFIS".
7.
Section 2.09 will read as follows: "Section 2.09.  The Minister of the 
Presidency and President of FIS and the Project coordinator or any person thereunto 
authorized in writing by such MinisterPresident or coordinator, are designated as 
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.".
8.
Section 3.01 will read as follows: 
"Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, 
to this end, shall carry out the Project through PANFIS with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, social, health, nutrition, educational and environmental 
practices, the Project Manual and the Implementation Indicators and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to its obligations under paragraph (a) above, 
the Borrower shall:  (i) enter into arrangements with with PANFIS, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the purposes of carrying out the Project 
through the PANFIS; (ii) make available the proceeds of the Credit to PANFIS, 
on a 
timely basis, as budgetary allocations; and (iii) take or cause to be 
taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other 
resources, to FIS PAN required for the carrying out of the Project and 
shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Project through PANFIS."
9.
Section 3.02 will read as follows:
"Section 3.02.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 
above, the Borrower shall allocate in its annual budget and make available to 
FIS promptly as needed for the calendar years 19997 and thereafter, for 
expenditures under the Project, funds equivalent to not less than the 
following minimum amounts:
(a)
$6,220,025 for calendar year 1999; and $4,791,490 for calendar year 1997;
(b)
$6,220,025 for calendar year 2000 and thereafter.".
$8,566,006 for calendar year 1998;
(c)
$14,866,042 for calendar year 1999; and
(d)
$20,480,356 for calendar year 2000 and thereafter.".
10.
Section 3.03 will read as follows: "Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall make its 
best efforts to mobilize local resources and obtain the External Assistance.".
11.
Section 3.04 will read as follows: 
"Section 3.04.  The Borrower, through PANFIS, shall:
(a)
establish Regional Offices in a manner and under a timetable 
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
maintain the Regional Office with adequate staff, structure, 
functions and budget, all satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)
employ consultants (the External Supervisors) in accordance with 
the Project Manual, with qualifications and experience and under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, for the purposes of supervising 
the implementation of Part B of the Project together with the Regional 
Offices.".
12.
Section 3.06 will read as follows:
Page  4
"Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall supervise the implementation of Part 
B of the Project through the Regional Offices and the External Supervisors in 
a 
manner satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with the Project 
Manual.".
13.
Section 3.07 is deleted.will read as follows: "Section 3.07. (a) Not later than 
December 31, 1997, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a fund under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to provide health assistance to 
children in the Day-Care Facilities.
(b)
Whenever necessary and in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Manual, the Borrower, through FIS, shall make Health Grants out of the proceeds of the 
Health Fund in a manner satisfactory to the Association.  The aggregate amount of the 
Health Grants made during a month shall not exceed an amount to be determined by FIS, 
to the satisfaction of the Association, not later than December 31, 1997.".
14.
Section 3.08 will read as follows: "Section 3.08. (a) Not later than November 
30, 1997, the Borrower, through PANFIS, shall establish and thereafter maintain the 
Rehabilitation Fund, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to 
provide Rehabilitation Grant-Loans for purposes of rehabilitating Day-Care Facilities 
in order that they meet the minimum standards of security, space and services for 
Day-Care. (b) Whenever necessary and in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Manual, the Borrower, through PAFINS, shall enter into Rehabilitation Agreements, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, with the owners of 
Day-Care Facilities for purposes of providing Rehabilitation Grant-Loans.
XX.
Paragraph (a) of Section 3.09 will read as follows:
"(a)
carry out the studies set forth in Schedule 7to this Agreement in 
accordance with the timetable therein set forth, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association;"
15.
Paragraph (c) of Section 3.09 will read as follows: 
"(c)
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 90 days 
after the date in which the Association sends, pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, its comments to PANFIS, programs or plans of action, satisfactory to 
the Association, in respect of each such study.".
16.
Section 3.10 will read as follows: 
"Section 3.10. (a)  The Borrower, through PANFIS, shall enter into 
agreements, in a manner and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, with the health centers of the regions in which Part B of the 
Project shall be implemented, providing for medical assistance under such Part 
of the Project for children in Day-Care Facilities, their pregnant mothers and 
pregnant caregivers of the Day-Care Facilities in the relevant region.
(b)
The Borrower, through PANFIS, shall enter into Subproject 
Agreements,  in a manner and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, for the provision of integrated child development services 
pursuant to Part B of the Project.".
17.
Section 3.11 will read as follows:
"Section 3.11. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) 
and 9.076 (a) (iii) and (c) of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through 
PANFIS, shall furnish to the Association not later than March 31, June 30, 
September 30 and December 31 of each year of Project execution, progress 
reports on the Project, of such scope and detail as the Association may 
reasonably request.  The quarterly report of September shall include, inter 
alia: (i) an assessment of the overall progress in the implementation of the 
Project, including the Implementation Indicators; (ii) a detailed work plan 
for the upcoming year; and (iii) an updated financial plan for the three years 
succeeding that of such report, all satisfactory to the Association.".
XX.
Section 3.12 will read as follows:
"Section 3.12. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) 
and 9.07 (a) (iii) and (c) of the General Conditions, and unless otherwise 
agreed by the Association, the Borrower shall cause PAN to: WRITE OUT WHOLE 
PIECE?  And on the next note, given that it already occurred should we drop 
Page  5
it?
18.
Paragraph (b) of Section 3.12 will read as follows: 
"(b)
Not later than April 30, 1998, hold a review with the Association 
to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the Project and the PIDI, their 
implementation and financial sustainability, including an assessment of the 
Implementation Indicators and the Borrower's investment plan for the social 
sector.".
19.
Paragraph (a) of Section 3.13 will read as follows: 
"(a)
establish and implement an evaluation system based on the IES, 
satisfactory to the Association, to evaluate the impact of the PIDI and the 
Project; and".
20.
Section 3.14 will read as follows:
"Section 3.14. The Borrower, through PANFIS, shall:
(a)
open and maintain Day-Care Facilities in accordance with the 
Project Manual, in a manner and under a timetable satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
select and maintain the caregivers for the Day-Care Facilities and 
cause to be provided financial support to them in accordance with the Project 
Manual and in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
select the children for the Day-Care Facilities based on criteria 
set forth in the Project Manual, giving priority to those malnourished, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association.".
21.
Paragraph (d) of Section 4.01 is deleted.
22.
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 read as follows:
"(c)
The Popular Participation Law, the Decentralization Law and 
Decrees No.  24557 of April 7, 1997, and No. 25017 of April 20, 1998 22407 of 
January 11, 1990, 22452 of March 8, 1990, 24318 of June 18, 1996 and 24557 of 
April 
7, 1997 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived 
so as to affect, materially and adversely, in the opinion of the 
Association, 
the carrying out of the Project or the ability of PANFIS to 
perform in 
accordance with the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (b) 
(i).".
23.
Paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 is deleted. 
24.
Article VI is deleted.
25.
The table in Schedule 1 will read as set forth in Attachment 1 to this letter.
26.
Subparagraph 2 (c) of Schedule 1 will read as follows: 
"(c)
the term "incremental administrative costs" means the incremental 
administrative costs incurred by PANFIS for the purposes and as a 
result of the implementation of the Project, including salaries 
for the positions created in the NPO and the Regional Offices;".
27.
Subparagraph 3 (e) of Schedule 1 will read as follows:
"(e)
payments made for expenditures in relation to a Day-Care Facility 
in a given region unless the PANIDI-Health Center Agreement for such region 
has been signed;".
28.
A new Subparagraph 4 of Schedule 1 will read as follows:
"The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify to the Borrower, for expenditures:
(a)
for goods under contracts not exceeding $50,000;
(b)
for services of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding 
Page  6
$40,000;
(c)
for the services of individual consultants under contracts not 
exceeding the equivalent of $10,000;
(d)
all Incremental Administrative costs; STAFF?
(e) 
for Competitive Grants and Health Grants not exceeding the 
equivalent of $50,000; and
(f)
for Subprojects not exceeding $50,000.".
29.
Part A of Schedule 2 of the Project will read as follows:
"Part A:
Institutional Development
1.
Develop and institutionalize an integrated child development model that 
may be applicable in urban areas of the country, incorporating services of 
education, health, nutrition, family strengthening and community organization.
2.
Strengthening the institutional development of PANFIS and the Eligible 
Entities, through:
(a)
provision of technical assistance for the organization of PANFIS 
and the training of its personnel for carrying out the Project;
(b)
organizing, training and providing technical assistance to the 
personnel of Eligible Entities in the application of norms, procedures and 
policies for the provision of integrated early childhood development services;
(c)
formulating and implementing monitoring and evaluation systems for 
integrated 
early childhood development.".
30.
Part B of the Project will read as follows:
"Part B:
Service Delivery Support
Delivery of child development services in poor urban areas by 
implementing a non-formal, home- and center-based early childhood development 
model in approximately 34 cities, including:
1.
establish and operate the Competitive Grant Fund;
2.
technical and administrative support to Eligible ParticipantsEntities in 
the development and implementation of Subprojects;
3.
assistance in the installation of Day-Care Facilities, including the 
rehabilitation of the infrastructure and equipment of such Facilities;
4.
establishing and operating the Health Fund;
5.
supporting the operation of Day-Care Facilities, including the selection 
and training of caregivers, the provision of nutritional supplements, and 
services in education and health;
6.
supervision of the quality of services delivered under this Part of the 
Project; and
7.
carrying out of  community education activities designed to strengthen 
the capacity of households to improve child development within the home 
environment.".
31.
Part C of the Project will read as follows:
"Part C:
Community Participation and Organization
1.
Implement a system of technical and organizational support that 
encourages the participation of the community, parents, and neighbors in 
PANIDI activities.
2.
Develop and institutionalize social communications and adult education 
programs in the areas of education, health, reproductive health, nutrition, 
Page  7
and family strengthening.".
32.
A new Part D of the Project is added at the end of Schedule 2 to read as 
follows:
"Part D:
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Implementation of a Project monitoring system with regard to the 
Implementation Indicators, including assessments of Project inputs, process 
indicators and administrative and financial information.
2.
Implementation of an evaluation system to assess the development of 
children and women supported by the Project, and of related community 
activities.".
33.
Schedule 4 is deleted.
34.
 Part A.2 of Section I of Schedule 5 will read as follows: 
"2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more.".
35.
Part C of Section I of Schedule 5 will read as follows:
"Part C:
 Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Vehicles, computer and office equipment, and domestic appliances 
estimated to cost $50,000 or more per contract or bid package may be procured 
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on 
the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from qualified 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with the procedures set 
forth 
in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 
2.55 
and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Goods (other than those specified in paragraph 1 hereof) estimated to 
cost the equivalent of more than $50,000 but less than $150,000 per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent of $10,000,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Goods (other than those specified in paragraph 1 hereof) estimated to 
cost the equivalent of more than $25,000 but less than $50,000 per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $6,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under 
the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Goods (other than those specified in paragraph 1 hereof) estimated to 
cost the equivalent of less than $25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $5,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
5.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000 or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be 
awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.".
36.
Section II of Schedule 5 will read as follows: 
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, through FIS, the 
Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications, 
experience 
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Association.  Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, 
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed such 
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’ 
Page  8
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use or cause to be used other standard forms agreed with the 
Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to:  (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to:  (a) the 
terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of consulting 
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $40,000 equivalent or above; (e) amendments to contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $10,000 
equivalent or above; and (f) contracts with individual consultants to be employed for 
more than two months, including national office staff and regional office 
coordinators.".
37.
Schedule 6 will read as set forth in Attachment 2 to this Letter.
38.
Schedule 7 will read as set forth in Attachment 3 to this Letter.
This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall 
be an original and shall become effective, as of January 1, 1997, once the 
Association: (a) has received one fully executed original; (b) has received a fully 
executed original of the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i); and (c) has 
approved PAN’s operational manual.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the two counterparts of this amendment letter.  Upon your confirmation, please return 
one fully executed original to us.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Isabel M. Guerrero 
Director Bolivia, Paraguay 
  and Peru Country Department 
Latin American and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Herbert Muller
Authorized Representative
Date:  March 28, 1999
