PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                              AWorl1d Froo of Poverty
InfoShop
Report No AB55
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name              GHANA-PRSC I
Region                    Africa Regional Office
Sector                    Other social services (40%); Sub-national government administration (30%);
Central government administration (30%)
Project ID                P076808
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)               MINISTRY OF FINANCE & ECONOMIC PLANNING
Implementing Agency       MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING
Address                   Address
Contact Person Michael Ayesu
Tel 233-21-662299/686179   Fax
233-21-663854mayesu@africaexpress.com   Email
Environment Category      C
Date PID Prepared         April 29, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date       April 28, 2003
Bank Approval Date       June 17, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Ghana has made considerable progress on laying the foundations for sustainable growth
and poverty reduction. Information from the 1998-99 Ghana Living Standards Survey (GLSS)
shows poverty trends were favorable in the 1990s, with the percentage of the adult population
defined as poor falling from 52 percent in 1991-92 to just under 40 percent in 1998-99. In
parallel with reforms, important political reforms were also adopted, moving the country to a
firmly democratic form of Government. However, progress has been periodically interrupted by
episodes of weak macroeconomic management associated with the electoral cycle, occurring in
1992, 1996 and 2000. Sustained implementation of sound financial policies during 2001 resulted
in significant progress on macroeconomic stabilization. The inflation rate was brought down
from a peak of 42 percent in early 2001 to half that rate by end-year, the nominal exchange rate
remained basically constant during the year, and the foreign exchange reserve position was
rebuilt. During 2002, program implementation was mixed. Preliminary estimates indicate that
real GDP growth accelerated to about 4.5 percent, as a result of improved terms of trade and an
increase in credit to the private sector.
Further progress was achieved in reducing inflation to about 15 percent, at end-2002, and



2
PID
building up foreign reserves to about 2 months. In terms of structural reforms, progress was
made in the areas of tax administration, financial sector reform, move towards full cost recovery
for utilities, and in governance. However, performance was undermined by fiscal and quasi-fiscal
slippages associated with weaknesses in public expenditure management, specially in the
management of the wage bill, payment of late 2001 unbudgeted expenditures and delays in the
divestiture program. Later in 2002 and early 2003, the Government redoubled its reform efforts.
A comprehensive and participatory poverty reduction strategy was finalized and its 2003 tranche
incorporated into the budget. In mid-January 2003, the authorities raised petroleum prices,
bringing retail prices to near import parity levels. Early in 2003, the Government also rolled out
the initial phase of the budget and public expenditure management system (BPEMS), and
submitted for Parliament approval the legal and regulatory framework to reform the public
procurement and to strengthen the internal audit functions.
2. Objectives
The proposed PRSC-1 will support the policies and reforms aimed at improving the
living conditions of the population by promoting growth, incomes and employment, accelerating
human resource development and strengthening governance and public sector management as
spelled out in Ghana's Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS). The PRSC-1 would lay the ground
for helping the country to implement its GPRS in a comprehensive manner. It is envisaged that
there will be two further PRSCs in FY04 and FY05.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank supported Ghana during the GPRS preparation and is well positioned to play a
major role within the donor community in supporting its implementation. The proposed PRSC is
expected to support progress towards the MDGs and achievement of the country's poverty
reduction goals spelled out in the GPRS which are anticipated from the growth and service
delivery outcomes of the implementation of the program supported by the credit. In addition, it
will help maintain macroeconomic stability by contributing to the closing of the external
financing gap and enable the Government to generate the funds required to execute GPRS
policies and programs.
4. Description
The dialogue between Bank staff and the Ghanaian authorities on a program that could be
supported by the Bank with a possible PRSC sought to blend ideas from the JSA with those in
the GPRS. The result is the program submitted by the Ghanaian authorities to the Bank for
support with the PRSC-1, which has been articulated under three components: (i) promoting
growth, incomes and employment; (ii) improving service delivery for human development; and
(iii) improving governance and public sector management.
In the area okrowth, incomes and employmen,t the program foresees action on two
fronts. The first front is: (i) eliminating factors that inhibit growth generally (high public
domestic debt, crowding out credit to the private sector and keeping interest high, and limiting
scope in the budget for financing services that are supportive of development); and (ii) a



3
PID
high-cost business environment (unreliable and "high-price" supply of critical inputs, especially
energy, and high transaction costs). The second front is that of removing key constraints on
progress in rural development.
In the area ofervice delivery for human developmenthe program focuses on: (i)
expanding access to education and health services, with particular attention to the needs of
underserved areas and populations; and (ii) improving the efficiency and equity of financing. By
focusing on these under the PRSC-1, the authorities count on using to advantage the spotlight on
poverty in the GPRS to deal with the issues of unequal regional and gender outcomes in health
and education, and sustainable and equitable financing of these critical services. This makes the
PRSC-1 bring additional value in areas where support is being provided by sector projects.
In the area, ofgovernance and public sector managemergtthe program focuses on: (i)
strengthening the institutions of participative democracy and accountable rule; and (ii) improving
the efficiency of the public services and the quality of public expenditure management. Here too,
the areas identified for PRSC support have been selected with a view to providing value-added to
sectoral support by elevating the issues to the center of Government, where collective interest
generated by the GPRS would facilitate debate and consensus building.
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER                 $0.00
IBRD
IDA                      $75.00
Total Project Cost       $75.00
6. Implementation
The Government has full ownership of the proposed PRSC-1, given that: (i) it is fully
aligned with the GPRS; and (ii) top Government officials were actively involved in its
preparation. The reform program funded by this credit will be implemented by the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning.
7. Sustainability
One of the key objectives of providing support through the PRSC-1 to Ghana is to shift
from project support, which uses project specific implementation mechanisms, to support the
budget, which uses government's mechanisms. Moreover, the PRSC will be IDA's instrument to
assist Ghana through a multi-donor budget support (MDBS) framework agreed, in March 2003,
between the Government of Ghana and participating development partners. The Government
program supported by the PRSC-1 will cover selectively the agenda identified in the GPRS and
focus on (i) selected cross cutting issues that hamper progress in different sectors; and (ii)
addressing a subset of priorities within and between sectors, which are considered to generate
sustained growth and poverty reduction.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector



4
PID
Bank support to adjustment has been under a series of Economic Reform Support
Operations: ERSO I, II, and III. Implementation of these quick disbursing operations allows to
draw five main lessons: (i) need of flexibility to respond to evolving situations; (ii) importance of
Government commitment to the reform process; (iii) need of selectivity and realism, given that
the reform agenda is vast and available capacity is limited; (iv) importance of donor coordination
to align assistance to the country's priority objectives.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues :
The Government of Ghana is aware of the importance for poverty reduction to off
ensuring environmental sustainability. The cross-sectoral nature of the environment and its direct
and indirect linkages to economic growth and poverty reduction agenda has been taken into
account in the preparation of the GPRS. It has consequently launched a Strategic Environmental
Assessment (SEA) exercise in February 2003 which focused on the review and appraisal of
sectoral policies using sustainability criteria related to three types of effects: economic growth,
environment and natural resources, and social and cultural conditions. Ghana has a robust
environmental institutional framework and considerable capacities to set, regulate and enforce
environmental management standards. The main frameworks are the 1991 National
Environmental Policy and the 1992 National Environmental Action Plan. In 1994, the former
Environmental Protection Council (EPC) was transformed into an Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) to provide support for appropriate environmental management.
10. List of factual technical documents:
N/A
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Marcelo R. Andrade
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone (202) 473-8378
Fax: (202) 473-8136
12. For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C. 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax:  (202) 522-1500
Web http:/l www.worldbank org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.



5
PID
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending    04/29/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
S EARCH   - *  IEUACK             STE MAP   ..      H      i    Z



