                               Documentof
                             The WorldBank


                                                  ReportNo. 25995-GH



               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION


                          PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                 FORA

                           PROPOSEDCREDIT

                   INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 63.9 MILLION

                      (US$SS MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                  AND

                           PROPOSEDGRANT

                   INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR26.9 MILLION

                      (US$37 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                  TO

                        THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                                 FORA

             POVERTYREDUCTIONSUPPORT CREDITAND GRANT

                               May 29,2003




PovertyReductionandEconomicManagement4
Africa Region

                            CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                    Currency Unit          -
                                           -        Cedis
                    Cedis                  -
                                           -        US$O.O001194
                    U S $ l                -        Cedis 8375

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1- December 31

                        ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

AAP      Accountability Assessment Plan
BOG      Bank o f Ghana
BPEMS    Budget andPublic Expenditure Management System
CAGD     Controller and Accountant General Department
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CEM      Country Economic Memorandum
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CG       Consultative Group
CHPS     Community BasedHealthSystem
CPAR     Country Assessment Procurement Report
CWIQ     Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DRL      Debt Recovery Levy
ECG       ElectricityCompany o f Ghana
EPA      Environmental Protection Agency
EPC      Environmental Protection Council
ERSO     Economic Reform Support Credit
FSAP     Financial Sector Assessment Program
GER      Gross Enrollment Rate
GLSS     Ghana Living Standards Survey
GoG      Government of Ghana
GPRS     Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy
HAART    Highly Active Anti-Retroviral Treatment
IDA      Intemational Development Association
IMF      Intemational Monetary Fund
JSA      Joint Staff Assessment
MDBS     Multi-Donor Budgetary Support
MDG      MillenniumDevelopment Goals
MOH      MinistryofHealth
MTEF     Medium-termExpenditure Framework
PETS     Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys
PLWHA    People Living With HIV/AIDS
PPB      Public Procurement Board
PRGF     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PUFMARP  Public FinanceManagement ReformProgram
PURC     Public Utilities Regulatory Commission
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SEA      Strategy Environmental Assessment
TA       Technical Assistance
TOR      Tema Oil Refinery
VAT      Value-Added Tax
VRA      Volta River Authority



                       Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
                    Country Director:      Mats Karlsson
                      Sector Director:     Paula Donovan
                     Sector Manager:       Emmanuel Akpa
                  Task Team Leader:        Marcel0 Andrade

                                                                                        FOROFFICIALUSEONLY


                                                  TABLE OFCONTENTS


        1 INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                                  1
       2 ..                            .....................................................................................................
                RECENTECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROGRESS INPOVERTY
       REDUCTION         ....................................................................................................................          2
            A  ..  MACROECONOMIC           AND STRUCTURALREFORMS
            B MEDIUM-TERMPROSPECTS
            c.     POVERTYTRENDS          AND PROGRESSINSOCIAL AND HUMAN
                                                           .........................................................................................5
                                                                                                .................................................      2

                                                                                                                   DEVELOPMENT 7
       3        THE GHANAPOVERTYREDUCTIONSTRATEGY                                                          .....................................      10
       4        BANKRESPONSE AND STRATEGY                                    ................................................................         11
        5...    THE POVERTYREDUCTIONPROGRAMFORPRSC SUPPORT                                                                                .............16
            A      PROMOTINGGROWTH,                INCOME AND EMPLOYMENT                               .........................................      17
            B                                                                                                         ............................    21
            c  ... IMPROVINGSERVICEDELIVERYFORHUMANDEVELOPMENT
                   IMPROVINGGOVERNANCE PUBLIC SECTORMANAGEMENT
                                                        AND                                                                   ......................  29
        6.            PROPOSED CREDIT AND GRANT                                     ..........................................................        34
            A                                              ................................................................................
                                                                                             ..................................................       34
            B
            c. ALIGNMENTWITH
               .
               .THEPRSC-1 CREDITANDGRANT ADMINISTRATION
                   ALIGNMENTWITHTHEIMF                                                                                                                38
                                                                                                                                                      39
            D ANALYTICUNDERPINNINGSOFTHEPRSC                                                                                                          40
            E ENVIRONMENTAL                                                                                                                           42
            F POVERTYANDSOCIALIMPACTANALYSIS                                                                                                          43
            G BENEFITS ~ S K S
               ....                        OTHERDONORS'                   SUPPORT           ...................................................
                                          ASPECTS         .................................................................................
                                                                                     .........................................................

                            AND                ............................................................................................
                                                                                    ..........................................................
                                                                                                                                                      46


        L i s t of Tables

        Table 1: KeyMacroeconomic Indicators. 2002-2005 .......................................................                                         5
        Table 2: External Financing Requirements.2003-05 ........................................................                                       6
        Table 3: Medium-TermPublic Finance Outlook. 2002-05 ...............................................                                             7

        Table 5: Education .GPRS Outcomesfor 2005..............................................................
        Table 4: Decomposition o f ChangeinPoverty. 1991/92 and 1998/99..............................                                                   9
                                                                                                                                                      23
        Table 6: Health-GPRS Outcomes for 2005 .....................................................................                                  26
        Table 7: Analytic Underpinnings.....................................................................................                          42
        List of Figures

        Figure 1: Summary ofPoverty Rates. 1991/92and 1998/99..........................................................                                 8


This document hasa restricted distribution andmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization                      .        .

Listof Schedules

Schedule 1: Letter o f Development Policy
Schedule 2: Policy Matrix: Government's Reform Strategies and Progress Indicators
Schedule 3: Quantitative Monitoring Indicators
Schedule 4: PRSC and Millennium Development Goals


Listof Annexes

Annex 1: Progress on ERSO I11Triggers
Annex 2:    Status Report on Triggers for the HIPC Floating Completion Point
Annex 3:   Framework Memorandum-Multi-Donor Budgetary Support (MDBS)
Annex 4:    Bilateral Development Partners and European Commission-MDBS
Annex 5:    ExpenditureAccountability Assessment and Action Plan (AAP)
Annex 6:    Ghana Public Financial Management
Annex 7:    Ghana CPAR 2003: Summary o f Key Findingsand Recommendations
Annex 8:    PSIA - Issues and Background Impact Analysis
Annex 9:    PSIA - Summary List o f Prioritized Studies for PRSC-2
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Annex 11: Key Economic Indicators
Annex 12: Key Social Indicators
Annex 13: Key Exposure Indicators
Annex 14: Ghana- Status o f Bank Group Operations
Annex 15: IMFPublic Information Notice
Annex 16: Timetable o f Key Processing Events

                                    GHANA

            POVERTYREDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT AND GRANT

                       FinancingandProgramSummary

Borrower:       Government o f Ghana

Amount:         US$ 125 million (US$SS million IDA Credit and US$ 37 million IDA
                Grant)

Terms:          Standard IDA terms: 40-year maturity with a 10-year grace period

Description:    The proposed operation o f US$125 million i s a Poverty Reduction
                Support Credit and Grant (PRSC) that would build on recent reforms
                carried out by the Government o f Ghana and support the
                implementation o f the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS).
                The proposed PRSC-1 will support the policies and reforms aimed at
                improving the living conditions o f the population by promoting
                growth, incomes and employment, accelerating human resource
                development, and strengthening governance and public sector
                management as spelled out in the country's GPRS. The first PRSC
                would lay the ground for helping the country to attack poverty in a
                comprehensive manner. It i s envisaged that there will be further
                single-tranche PRSCs inFY04 and FY05, respectively

Benefits:       The proposedPRSC-1is expectedto provide a series o fbenefits. The
                main and ultimate benefit i s the human progress towards the MDGs
                expected from the growth and service delivery outcomes o f the
                implementation o f the program supported by this operation. In
                addition, there are two intermediate benefits. The first i s helping
                maintain macroeconomic stability by contributing to the closing o f
                the external financing gap. The second i s enabling Government to
                generate the funds required to execute GPRS policies andprograms.

Risks:          The risks faced by the program are: (i)    sustainability failure owing to
                politicalhocial pressures; (ii) threat to its macro-financial framework
                as a result o f terms o f trade shocks or increased regional instability;
                (iii)residual fiduciary risks to funds; and (iii)implementation
                capacity being outpaced by the program.
                The risk that the program may not be sustained relates to possible
                weakening o f the Government's commitment as the 2004 elections
                approach andor social opposition to the program emerges. This risk
                i s mitigated by the use o f communication and dialogue to gain social
                acceptance o f the reforms. This has already been used successfully in
                late 2002 and early 2003, when good communication enabled the
                acceptance o f the hefty but overdue petroleum price and utility tariff
                adjustments. In addition, the sound and early poverty measures (e.g.

                                                  - -
                                                    11



                         fee-free access by poor mothers to maternity services) reduce the risk
                         o f social opposition.
                         The risk o f disruption o f the macro-financial context o f the program
                         arises from the possibility o f adverse terms o f trade widening the
                         financing gap or increased regional instability creating unforeseen
                         needs for security expenditures. The strong relation with the MDBS
                         development partners helps mitigate the risk o f such events causing
                         the program to fail. The partners have pledged their support to the
                         program in the form o f predictable and sufficient multi-year
                         financing, as long as it i s implemented with commitment. They stand
                         ready to adjust the timing o f their disbursements to provide adequate
                         financing as long as progress on the programremains sound.
                         There are residual fiduciary risks due to weaknesses in public
                         financial management. Although Ghana has made strides in the area
                         o f probity in public resource management (in the broader sphere o f
                         corruption, Ghana placed 4'h inboth the 2001and 2002 Transparency
                         International ranking o f sub-Saharan African countries, behind
                         Mauritius, Botswana, and Namibia), there are residual risks o f the
                         misapplication o f public fimds. The risks diminish further with
                         continued improvements in budget management. These risks are also
                         mitigated by the elevation to national attention o f fiscal transparency
                         communications, budget account disclosures, and Parliamentary
                         oversight o f resource use and development results - all as part and
                         parcel o f the GPRS process.

                         The capacity risk entails the possibility that program implementation
                         capacity might be overburdened by multiple activities and result in a
                         slower-than-expected progress on the program. The Bank i s helping
                         mitigate this risk by leading the development partner effort o f
                         harmonizing program content and monitoring.               The adoption o f a
                         common framework for assessing progress on the implementation o f
                         the GPRS and the expected adoption o f a common policy matrix in
                         2004 augur well for successfbl mitigation o f the risks in this area.
                         Donor support under the MDBS would also make critical technical
                         assistance available to deal with residual unforeseen difficulties.

Disbursements:           SDR 90.8        million (US$125 million equivalent) will be disbursed
                         upon PRSC-1effectiveness.
Implementing
Agency:                  The Ministryo f Finance and Economic Planning
ProjectIDNumber: PE-PO76808

The World Bank core team for this operation was led by Marcelo Andrade and consisted of: Benoit Millot, Laura L.
Rose, Eunice Dapaah, Evelyn Awittor, Eileen Murray (AFTH2); Guenter Heidenhof, Yongmei Zhou, Smile
Kwawukume (AFTPR); Jan Walliser, B.Boubacar-Sid, Daniel Boakye (AFTP4); Mangesh Hoskote(AFTEG); Sarah
Keener (SDV); MbubaMbungu (AFTPC); Michael Wong, Kofi-BoatengAgyen (AFTPS); Solomon Bekure, Patience
Mensah, Edward Dwumfour (AFTW); Margo Thomas (IFC); Gert Van Der Linde, Iradj Talai (AFTFM); Irene
Xenakis (AFTOS); David Webber, Ayman Abu-Haija (LOAG1); Karen Hudes (LEGAF). Paula Lamptey, Salli
Cudjoe (AFClO), Marta Berhane and Judite Femandes (AFTP4) helped to prepare the document. Jeffrey Lewis
(PRMTR) provided guidance and advice as peer reviewer. Quality Assurance was also providedby Emmanuel Akpa
(Sector Manager AFTP41.

                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     PROGRAMDOCUMENT FOR A PROPOSED
             POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT AND GRANT
                                           TO GHANA




                                     1.       INTRODUCTION

1.       This Program Document proposes a single-tranche Poverty Reduction Support
Credit and Grant (PRSC-1) to the Republic o f Ghana for SDR 90.8 million, an amount
equivalent to US$125 million, on standard IDA terms. The proposed operation is an
integral part o f the Bank's strategy to support the implementation o f Ghana's Poverty
Reduction Strategy (GPRS). This one-tranche operation would be the first in a series o f
three such operations to provide financial support to allow the Government to carry out
its poverty reduction expenditure program. The proposed operation would also facilitate
the implementation o f reforms aimed at improving the living conditions o f the population
by promoting growth,          incomes and employment,           accelerating human resource
development, and strengthening governance and public sector management. The PRSC-1
would provide financial assistance to help Ghana close financing gaps, which are o f
balance o f payments and fiscal origins. It i s envisaged that over the period 2003-05 there
would be two subsequent single-tranche PRSCs to continue to support the
implementation o f the poverty reduction program. The program to be associated with
successive credits in these series o f PRSCs may be broadened to include selected policy
measures drawn from the GPRS agenda, as considered needed to ensure the achievement
o f the credit's main objectives.

2.       The reform program associated with this operation builds on the Government's
full PRSP and is aligned with the Bank's FYOO Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), and
fits with the FY04 CAS currently under preparation'. PRSC-1 builds on analytical work
carried out over the past few years, including an International Competitiveness Report
(Report No. 22421-GH), a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA-May
2001), a Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP-May 2001), and the 2002 Public
Expenditure Tracking Survey in education and health; the soon-to-be concluded core
diagnostic work in the form o f a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), a
Poverty Note, a new C E M on Growth, Poverty and Public Sector Management and a
CFAA. The program also builds on analytical work carried out by the Government and
other development partners. In addition, the recommendations o f a joint Bank-Fund
Boardpaper on the tracking of public spending in H P C countries have played a major
role inthe design o f the reformprogram.




'"Ghana  Poverty Reduction Strategy and Joint World Bank-IMF Staff Assessment o f the GPRS" (March
4,2003), and "Ghana: Country Assistance Strategy"- Report IDNW20815-GH, March 2000.

                                             - 2 -


3.      Bilateral and multilateral donor assistance would play an important role in
supporting the implementation o f the GPRS given that the country's own resources fall
short of the levels required to achieve the objectives spelled out in the strategy. The
GPRS has created the momentum for a significant group of donors to align their
budgetary support under a common framework, the Multi-Donor Budgetary Support
(MDBS) (see paras. 115-119). The MDBS will provide a framework for policy dialogue
anddecisions linked to progress inthe implementationo fthe GPRS.

4.      The PRSC-1 has been developed ahead o f the finalization o f the FY04 CAS
(which would have provided the strategic context for the PRSC) and o f the conclusion o f
FY03 CFAA (which would have updated knowledge required for the definition of prior
actions and triggers inthe area o f fiduciary safeguards). The choice to go ahead with the
PRSC rather than another instrument was made for a number o f reasons.

5.     First, where the country strategyis concerned, as explained inparas. 31-49, both
the FYOO CAS and the upstream work on the FY04 CAS offer enough elements to allow
the clarification o f the strategic context o f the PRSC-1. As to the analytical work, the
FYOl CFAA andthe missionreport o fthe FY03 CFAA-update provided sufficient inputs
for the design o f the prior actions and triggers o f PRSC-1. The final report o f the FY03
CFAA would help to strengthen the area in subsequent PRSCs. Second, the choice
responds to the earnest but reasonable request o f the Ghanaian authorities to have the
Bank's support to the GPRS indicated early and aligned with the time frame for its
implementation so as to sustain the national enthusiasm that has been built around it.
Third, the choice is influenced by the need to maintain the Bank's key role among the
Development Partners (DPs) active in Accra, who have decided to support the GPRS
with multi-year budgetary assistance, and to use common procedures in order to reduce
the transactions burden on the country. With the PRSC, the Bank would remain with the
other DPs and continue to play its prominent role inthe MDBS.

6.     The Bank's strategy (being developed in the FY04 CAS) is to progressively
increase the share o f the assistance program delivered inprogrammatic form. The PRSC
begins this process. But there are risks o f providing such support in light o f the need to
keep improving the fiduciary framework. The residual risks are worth bearing, to the
extent that the Bank's PRSC support would help sustain national interest in the GPRS,
with the popular vigilance about its impact becoming an additional tool for promoting
probityinthe use o fpublicresources.


  2.      RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTSAND PROGRESS
                             INPOVERTYREDUCTION

A.     MACROECONOMIC         AND STRUCTURAL REFORMS

7.     Since embarking on economic reforms in the mid-l980s, Ghana has made
considerable progress on laying the foundations for sustainable growth and poverty

                                             - 3 -


reduction2. This has resulted in sustained output growth and increased private sector
activity and investment over the last two decades. In parallel with reforms, important
political reforms were also adopted, moving the country to a firmly democratic form o f
Government. However, progress has been periodically intempted by episodes o f weak
macroeconomic management associated with the electoral cycle, occurring in 1992, 1996
and 2000.

8.      Bank support was particularly important in correcting the slippage that occurred
during the 1996 elections. Measures were adopted and the Government curtailed
domestic budgetary expenditures and succeeded in halving the inflation rate over the
subsequent two years. On this basis, and to support Ghana's progress in completing
previously delayed reforms-in      particular, increased tariffs aimed at restoring financial
viability to the public utilities, and the passage o f the VAT law-IDA      approved a one-
tranche adjustment credit, the Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO) in 1998.

9.      By mid-1999, Ghana had made significant progress inrestoring macroeconomic
stability. Inflation had fallen to below 10 percent, and real interest rates were declining
from a very high level. The VAT had been successfully re-introduced, a number o f
insolvent banks were closed, and the Government had reached a consensus with
stakeholders on the strategy for further liberalizing the cocoa sector. Following a new
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) arrangement with the IMF inMay 1999,
IDA approved a second ERSO credit, in July 1999, which focused on a program o f
continued reforms inthe cocoa, energy and banking sectors.

10.     Beginning inthe latter half o f 1999, Ghana suffered a major terms-of-trade shock,
with falling prices for Ghana's two main exports, gold and cocoa, and rising prices for
petroleum imports. This shock, together with a delay in adjusting fiscal and monetary
policy accordingly, ledto a sharp deterioration inmacroeconomic performance, including
a build-up in external arrears. The exchange rate depreciated rapidly in the latter part o f
1999 and inflation increased significantly. These problems were compounded by delays
in the adjustment of domestic petroleum prices and electricity rates, resulting in an
accumulation o f large bank debts at the state-owned monopoly importer, Tema Oil
Refinery (TOR), and threatening the financial viability o f the utilities.        Fiscal and
monetary discipline faltered once again in the runup to the December 2000 elections. As
the terms o f trade worsened further, the exchange rate depreciation and rising inflation
continued through 2000.

11.     The erstwhile opposition party won the 2000 elections and the newly-elected
Government, having inherited a very difficult economic situation, moved quickly to
restore stability. In February 2001, retail petroleum prices were increased by 60 percent
inorder to staunch operating losses at the state-owned refinery, and similar increases in
electricity and water tariffs took effect in May to curtail losses at those utilities. An
interim budget passed in March 2001 raised taxes and curtailed expenditure
appropriations, and a further package o f fiscal measures was devised for implementation


'See Box 1,HIPCDecisionPoint Document, SEC -/M-2002

                                            - 4 -


beginning mid-2001. On the strength o f the Government's macroeconomic and structural
reform program for 2001, the third review under the PRGF arrangement was completed
 and IDA presented the Third Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO 111) operation
to the Board(IDA/R2001-0121) inJuly 2001.

 12.    Sustained implementation o f tight financial policies during 2001 resulted in
significant progress on macroeconomic stabilization. The inflation rate was brought down
from a peak o f 42 percent in early 2001 to half that rate by end-year, the nominal
exchange rate remained basically constant during the year, and the foreign exchange
reserve position was rebuilt. At the same time, progress was made inthe restructuring of
public enterprise debt, and work advanced on setting a fee schedule for public utilities
that would allow them to move progressively toward full cost recovery. Measures
intendedto strengthen public expenditure control at the commitment stage were delayed,
however, resulting inthe build-upo f new domestic arrears. Progress was also slower than
expected inthe area o f divestiture, although this inpart reflected the authorities' efforts to
ensure a transparent process.

 13.    During2002, program implementationwas mixed. Preliminary estimates indicate
that real GDP growth accelerated to about 4.5 percent, as a result o f improved terms of
trade and an increase in credit to the private sector. Higher petroleum products import
prices seem to have been more than offset by higher cocoa and gold export prices.
Further progress was achieved inreducing inflation to about 15 percent, at end-2002, and
building up foreign reserves to about 2 months. In terms o f structural reforms, good
progress was made in the areas o f tax administration, financial sector reform, move
towards full cost recovery for utilities, and in governance. However, performance was
undermined by serious fiscal and quasi-fiscal slippages associated with weaknesses in
public expenditure management, specially in the management o f the wage bill, payment
o f late 2001 unbudgeted expenditures, non-implementation of revenue enhancing
measures, and delays in the divestiture program. Moreover, failure to adjust petroleum
prices contributed to the Government havingto assume debt o f the refinery representing
almost 3 percent o f GDP and, contrary to programmed, domestic debt build up continued
representing about 29 percent at end 2002. As a result, the fifth and final review under
the 1999-2002 PRGF arrangement could not be completed.

14.    Later in 2002 and early 2003, the Government redoubled its reform efforts (see
Annexes 1 and 2). A comprehensive and participatory poverty reduction strategy was
finalized and its 2003 tranche incorporated into the budget. In mid-January 2003, the
authorities raised petroleum prices by 90 percent on average, bringing retail prices to
import parity levels. In addition, a Debt Recovery Levy (DRL) on petroleum products,
estimated to generate 1.6 percent of GDP in 2003, was enacted to help retire the TOR
bonds issued due to the lack o f adjustment o f petroleum prices over the past years3. In
March 2003, another adjustment of electricity and water tariffs o f about 12 percent was
made effective to bringthem inline with full cost recovery.




 DRLwas establishedat 640 cedis per liter,

                                               - 5 -


 15.     The Government has also decided that henceforth, the authority to change the
utility tariffs and retail petroleumprices will be exercised by the appropriate bodies. To
this end, the Public Utility Regulatory Unit and the National Petroleum Tender Board,
have already been given independent powers and automatic adjustment formulas have
been adopted. Early in 2003, the Government also rolled out the initial phase of the
budget and public expenditure management system (BPEMS), and submitted for
Parliament approval the legal and regulatory framework to reform the public
procurement, and to strengthen financial management, reporting and audit functions o f
public sector institutions and to decentralize functions to district levels.

B.       MEDIUM-TERM       PROSPECTS

Macroeconomic Outlook and External Financing Requirements

16.      As stated inthe GPRS, the Government's macroeconomic objectives for 2003-05
include an average real GDP growth rate of about 5 percent, allowing for real per capita
income increases averaging 2.3 percent. The renewed growth, which is expected to
strengthenwith time, would be based on the steady recovery o f the tradable sector. As
such, the associated export performance would be just a shade below the GDP growth
rate, averaging about 4 percent in real terms over the period. In contrast, real import
growth i s expected to be stronger, averaging about 8 percent annually, on account o f the
infrastructure projects planned early in the GPRS period. In the fiscal area, the impacts
o f public finance reforms are expected to show up early in the period and be sustained
throughout in terms o f stronger revenue Performance and greater expenditure discipline.
As a result, the macroeconomic framework inthe PRGF-supported program indicates that
the fiscal gaps are expected to narrow, with the overall deficit/GDP ratio (including
grants) falling to an average o f about 2 percent, compared with an average of
approximately 8 percent inthe preceding three years.

17.      Ghana does not yet have a formal quantitative framework for projecting the
income poverty outcomes o f given levels o f growth performance. However, on the basis
of less formal computations, the authorities estimate that the income-poverty elasticities
would enable them to achieve the headcount target o f 32 percent by 2005.

                   Table 1: Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 2002-2005

                                                  2002          2003       2004         2005
                                                  Act.         Proj.       Proj.        Proj.
       Real GDP growth %                             4.5          4.7        5.0          5.0
       CPI inflation%                              14.8          26.9        8.3          6.0
       Gross Investment/GDP %                      19.7          23.0       24.2        24.6
       Gross National Savings %                   20.3           21.2       22.6        23.4
       Current Account DeficiVGDP                    0.6         -1.8       -1.6         -1.6
       (incl. Grants) %
       OverallBudget DeficitIGDP                   -6.8          -3.9       -1.3         -0.4
       (incl. Grants)%
        Source: IMF and Bank Staffprojections, with inputs from the Ghanaianauthorities.

                                                - 6 -


18.     The projected growth outlook for 2003-05 is expected to be supported by a gross
investment ratio o fjust under 24 percent and a national savings ratio averaging about 22
percent. The resulting external current account gap i s projected at 1.6 percent annually.
The overall external financing requirements are projected at US$3,019 million. Grants,
already committed, project loans, and debt relief (including HIPC) would amount to
US$2,388 million, leaving a gap o f US$631 million. The corresponding residual
financing needs in 2003 would amount to US$212 million. Of this, drawings from the
IMF would cover US$72 million.            IDA'S support through the PRSC-1 would cover
another US$125 million. Quick disbursing assistance from other partners supporting the
GPRS would cover the remainder (see Table 2).


                    Table 2: ExternalFinancingRequirements,2003-05
                                         (InUS$million)


    GrossFinancingRequirements                              -983     -1,046        -990  -3,019
    Current account deficit                                 -490        -495       -502  -1,487
    Capital account deficit                                 -277        -330       -280    -887
    Change inreserves (-means increase)                     -181        -186       -173    -540
    Other                                                     -35        -35        -35    -105
    Financing                                                983       1,046        990   3,019
     Program Grants                                           131         99         95     325
       -   Bilaterals                                          90
       -   Multilaterals                                      41
    Project Grants                                            155        164        165     484
    Project Loans                                             196        225        225     646
    Debt Relief, incl. HIPC                                  289         332        312     933
    IMFdrawings                                                72         72         72     216
    Other support, including IDA PRSC                         140        154        121     415
       -   IDAPRSC                                            125
       -  Financinggap                                         15
  Source: IMFand Bank Staff projections, with inputs from the Ghanaian authorities.


Medium-TermPublicFinanceOutlook

19.     The attainment o f the goals o f the GPRS requires two sorts o f adjustment in the
public finances, as reflected in the outlook in Table 3 below. First, the public finances
must become more viable, to support the return to overall macroeconomic stability. This
would come from reductions in the fiscal deficit as the combined outcome o f enhanced
revenue mobilization, on one hand, and greater rigor in public expenditure policies, on
the other. This trend appears inthe outlook, as the overall deficit (including grants) falls
from -6.8 percent o f GDP in 2002 to -0.4 percent in2005. An important element in the
projected trend is the reduction in domestic debt and the related interest burden (which
falls from 4.5 percent o f GDP in2002 to 2.4 percent in2005).

20.     Second, the public finances need to create room to allow a higher level o f
resources to flow to growth-inducing and poverty-reducing activities. This is shown in

                                                 - 7 -


the outlook as stable funding o f goods and services at 3.1 percent of GDP, along with
rising domestic fundingof the development budget, which rises from 2.7 percent o f GDP
in2002 to 6.6 percent of GDP in2005. The combination of the projected allocation to
goods and services and the higher provision for development expenditures will be the
way to channel a higher volume o f domestic resources to the GPRS priorities.


                  Table3: Medium-TermPublic FinanceOutlook,2002-05
                                         (InpercentofGDP)

                                                          2002       2003       2004         2005
       Revenue & grants                                   21.1        26.2      26.7         26.4
           Revenue                                        18.0        21.6      22.3         22.2
       Total Expenditure                                  26.1        29.3      27.8         26.5
           Current Expenditures                           20.0        20.0      17.5         16.2
             Wages & Salaries                               8.5        8.4        8.4         8.4
             Goods & Services                              - - 3.1
                                                           3.1         3.1                    -
                                                                                              3.1
             Intereston Debt                                6.1        6.8        4.3         3.2
                 O/w Interest on Dom.Debt                  4.5         5.5        2.8         2.4
              Transfers                                    - - -
                                                            2.3        1.7        1.7         1.5
       Current Surplus                                      1.1        6.2        9.2        -
                                                                                             10.2
          Devpb`Capital Expenditure                         6.1        9.4       10.3        10.4
       Overall Def. (incl. grant^)^                        -6.8       -3.9       -1.3        -0.4
            Source: IMF and Bank Staff projections, with inputs from the Ghanaian authorities

c.       POVERTYTRENDS          AND PROGRESSIN SOCIAL AND HUMAN              DEVELOPMENT

21.      Poverty Trends. Information from the 1998-99 Ghana Living Standards Survey
(GLSS) shows poverty trends were favorable in the 1990s, with the percentage of the
adult population defined as poor falling from 52 percent in 1991-92 to just under 40
percent in 1998-99.5 Poverty refers to an absolute poverty line o f 900,000 cedis per adult
per year in 1998/99 (US$363 in 1999 prices). Individuals with expenditures above that
level are considered able to purchase enough food to meet their nutritional requirements
and to meet their non-food basic needs. Although at the national level the incidence o f
poverty declined, it increased in two o f the northern regions and the central region. The
largest declines were recorded inthe Greater Accra Region-which                 includes the bulk o f
industrial and service activities-and          the Western, Volta, Ashanti and Brong Ahafo
regions, where exports such as cocoa, gold and timber are produced (Figure 1). Most
groups experienced a decline in poverty during the 1990s, but to differing degrees.
Export farmers and private sector employees benefited the most and food crop farmers
the least, many o f whom are women. These improvements were made possible by
sustained GDP growth at an average rate o f 4.3 percent per year during 1992-99 andthey
were accompanied by a broad improvement in social indicators. Broadly, the
development could be considered to have been especially beneficial for the poor because


 After arrears clearance
 Ghana Statistical Service, "Poverty Trends inGhana inthe 1990s"; October 2000.

                                            - 8 -


it was accompanied by agricultural growth, which liftedout o fpoverty a large number o f
farmers, thereby reducing the percentage o f the poor in rural areas from 63.6 percent in
 1991/92 to 49.5 percent in 1998/1999.

22.      The combination o f domestic policy slippage and the terms-of-trade shocks of
 1999-2000 probably caused a deterioration in living standards for a good number o f
Ghanaians. The GPRS could also have acknowledged the uncertainties regarding the
medium-term poverty reduction targets, including the possibility that the base level o f
poverty in 2000 may have been underestimated, in light o f the adverse economic
developments in 1999 and 2000. In the meantime, a Poverty Note (planned for June
2003) will present the results o f a preliminary examination of the likely impact o f those
events on poverty. A full update of the understanding of the extent and evolution of
poverty will be possible with the completion o f a new household survey, the GLSS5,
expected in2004.


              Figure 1: Summary of Poverty Rates, 1991/92 and 1998199




        Upper West                                                           88
         Upper East                                                          88

           Northern                                              69

       BrongAhafo

           Ashanti
              Volta                                                      U1991l92
                                                                       ~


           Eastern
          Gt.Accra
            Central
           Western

                   0              20         40         60            80          1O(
                                           Incidence(percent)
        Source: Ghanaianauthorities

23.     Growth and inequality. The effectiveness o f growth in reducing poverty i s
enhanced when growth i s accompanied by falling inequality. Table 4 breaks down the
change in poverty into (i) change in the mean value o f consumption assuming that
                            the
inequality hadremained unchanged (growth effect); (ii) observed change ininequality
                                                       the
assuming that mean consumption had remained unchanged (distribution effect); and (iii)
a residual effect (which measures the interactive term between growth and redistribution
effects). In Ghana's case, broad economic growth accounted for nearly all the poverty

                                                 - 9 -


reduction at the national level between 1991/92 and 1998/99. Changes ininequality were
not strong enough to overturn the effect o f growth.

24.     Characteristics of the poor. There i s a strong link between poverty and low
access to basic infrastructure, health services and education. In participatory studies o f
poverty, Ghana's poor expressed a strong demand for improved social services, but there
were substantial regional differences. Communities in the north o f the country saw a
priority need for irrigation, potable water, health facilities and off-farm employment
generation. Those inthe south placed more emphasis on skill training, general education,
transparency, good governance and provision o f economic and social infrastructure. In
both regions, lack o f access to credit was mentioned as a factor exacerbating poverty,
especially for farmers and the informal sector.

        Table 4: Decomposition of Change in Poverty, 1991/92 and 1998/99

                                                   Share of percentage change due to:
                           Total Change      Growth effect         Redistribu-   Residual
                                                                   tion effect
    Accra                  -19.6             -12.6                 -10.3          3.3
    UrbanCoastal            -3.0             -11.8                   8.0         0.8
    UrbanForest             -8.7             -11.2                   0.0         2.4
    UrbanSavannah             5.5              6.5                  -1.7          0.6
    RuralCoastal            -7.0               -9.8                  1.8          1.o
    RuralForest            -25.2             -23.3                   1.6         -0.3
    RuralSavannah           -2.0               -5.0                  1.6          1.5
    All Ghana              -12.1             -13.8                   0.1          1.5
                            ~~                  ~

  Source: Poverty trends inthe 199Os, "Ghana Statistical Service", October 2000.

25.     Gender differences. There are significant gender disparities in access to key
productive assets: land, labor, financial services, and inputs. Farmers in Ghana, whether
men or women have low levels o f use o f credit and other inputs. Even at these low levels,
there are important gender disparities, which reveal that cash (male-dominated) crops
benefit more from inputs and financial services thando food (female-dominated) crops. As
in most other African countries, Ghana's primary school enrollment rates are lower for
girls (76 percent) than for boys (84 percent). Interms o f health, infant mortality and life
expectancy are both more favorable for women in Ghana, as is typical. Utilization rates
o f health services are higher for women than for men. This is not unusualbecause o f the
additional health services requirements o f women associated with obstetrics and
gynecology. Inview o f the country's relatively high fertility rate at 4.6 (GLSS - 1999),
and a highmaternal mortality ratio (200/100,000) it appears that there is a problem with
the delivery o fhealth services for women.

26.     Access to social services. During the 1990s, in the education sector, primary
enrollment rates rose marginally mostly due to increased enrollment in private schools,
especially in urban areas. Over the same period, improvements were seen in the health
outcomes, Inthis regard, the under five mortality rate was lowered from 119 per 1,000 to

                                            - 10-


110 per 1,000 live births. The GPRS notes that indicators such as lower school
enrollment rates and higher under five mortality, reflecting differences in access to basic
social services, generally mirror regional and socioeconomic differences o f poverty rates.
As a result, education andhealth outcomes inthe Northem, Upper East and Upper West
regions are considerably worse than the national averages. Inthe poorest regions, gross
primary enrollment i s about 25 percent lower than the national rate o f 80 percent.
Similarly, the under five mortality is also muchworse inthe poorest regions. Inthis case,
the rate is almost fifty percent higher than the national average o f 110 per 1,000 live
births. Strategically, while the country is well positioned to reach most of the MDGs this
will not happen unless these regional disparities are forcefully addressed.


       3.       THE GHANAPOVERTYREDUCTIONSTRATEGY

27.    The GPRS establishes the framework for implementing the Government's anti-
poverty agenda. It was recently considered by the Boards o f the Fund and the Bank
together with the Joint Staff Assessment (JSA).

28.    On the basis o f the analysis, the Government set its poverty reduction goals in
alignment with the MDGs. The authorities then defined the strategy for pursuing those
goals under five pillars dealing with income poverty, human development, govemance
and empowerment, and exclusion (see Box 1).

29.    The poverty diagnosis in the GPRS drew on comprehensive data from both
quantitative and qualitative sources. The latest sets o f poverty data for Ghana come from
the 1998-99 Ghana Living Standards Survey (GLSS); a 1997 survey on the basis of the
Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ); the 1998 Ghana Demographic and
Health Survey; the 2000 Population and Household Census, and the 2000 Participatory
Poverty Assessment.

30.    The Govemment next tumed its attention to elaborating the policy measures in
some areas to operationalize and prioritize the policy strategy outlined in the GPRS.
Duringpreparation o fthe PRSC, progress was achieved on establishing the roadmap for
reforms to be implemented in areas critical for stepping up growth, improving service
delivery and enhancing govemance. However, much remains to be done. The
Govemment program supported by the PRSC will cover selected elements o f the GPRS
and focus on (i) selected cross-cutting issues that hamper progress invarious sectors; and
(ii)setofprioritieswithinandbetweensectors, whichareconsideredcriticalforthe
    a
achievement o fthe country's objectives andprogress towards the MDGs.

                                                          - 11-


                           Box 1: Ghana PovertyReduction Strategy (GPRS)


The Ghana Poverty ReductionStrategy (GPRS) aims at addressingthe most pressing challenges faced by the country
with a view to acceleratingsustainedgrowth andpovertyreduction.Ghana's povertyreductionstrategy was developed
after extensive consultations between the Govemment, the private sector, civil society and development partners.
Concurrently, a Participatory Poverty Assessment (PPA) was conducted in thirty-six communities through local
workshops, to better understandthe perspectives o fpoor people. The Governmentintends to continue the consultation
and participation process during the implementation phase through participatory monitoring and an effective
communicationstrategy.

The goal of the GPRS is to achieve sustainable, equitable growth, acceleratedpovertyreduction, and the protectionof
the vulnerableand excluded within a decentralized democratic environment.To achieve this goal, key objectives have
been set in the mediumterm (2003-2005) with the view to progressing towards the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs) by the year 2015.

The main objectivesof the GPRS are: (i)accelerateannual real GDP growth to 5 percentby 2005; (ii)reducepoverty
from 39 percent to 32 percent over the same period; (iii) improve basic infrastructure such as roads, water and
sanitation, andmarket access; (iv) increasethe level ofprimary enrollmentand completionrate; (v) reduceinfant,child
and matemal mortality and the incidence of infectious diseases; and (vi) improve govemance and efficiency of the
public sector.

The GPRS has five pillars - macroeconomic stabiliy, increase production and employment, human resource
development, special programs for the vulnerable and excluded, and good governance- on which the Govemment will
focus to achieveits povertyreductiontargets. The strategy buildson creatingfavorable conditionsfor private-sector-led
growth, improving the delivery of basic social services, andraising the efficiency of the public sector. Specifically, the
strategyaims at:
(i)achievingmacroeconomicstabilitybystrengtheningfiscalpolicymanagement,adoptingaprudentmonetarypolicy
stance, and improvingthe country's intemationalcompetitiveness;

(ii) increasing productionand employment by eliminating structural impediments to faster private sector-led growth.
The greatest challenge in this respect i s the fostering of growth of ago-basedindustrial productionand the promotion
oftourism;
(iii)promotinghumanresourcedevelopmentbyimprovingthepoor'saccessibilitytoqualitybasiceducationandhealth
care, fighting the spreadof HIVIAIDS and expandingprovisionof other basic services such as water and sanitation;
(iv) implementingspecial programs for the vulnerableand excluded mainly by mainstreamingpolicies targeted to the
poorestgroupsanddeprivedareas, andenforcingrightson protection,particularlyof childrenandwomen; and
(v) ensuring good govemance by improving the transparency and accountability in government operations,
strengthening the capacity of the public sector, and decentralizingmanagement of public policy to empower people to
participateinand influencethe developmentprocess.




                       4.       BANKRESPONSEAND STRATEGY

31.       Strategic Context of the PRSC. Ghana's key development partners (DPs)
consider that the country's stable, democratic governance, improving investment climate
and progress in achieving the MDGs constitute a good set o f fundamentals on which to
build their support to the GPRS. Inthe months leading to the finalization of the GPRS,
discussions among the DPs aimed to take advantage o f government leadership to explore
how to reduce transaction costs and increase the likelihood o f outcomes at scale, and
concluded with a decision to base their response to the GPRS on a coordinated dialogue
and a more programmatic approach to their assistance. The MDBS would be the central
framework to provide such support.

                                             - 12-

 32.    The PRSC will be the Bank's major contribution to this partnership. Itwill be the
 centerpiece inpolicy dialogue, supporting selected key issues ingrowth, service delivery,
 and governance whose elevation to the center o f government with a high visibility
 instrument would increase the chances of progress on decisions, with maximum buy-in
 from important segments of the society. Further, its resources will enable the finance of
 GPRS priorities. It will be complemented by an appropriate combination o f investment
projects in infrastructure, urban, rural and private sector development; it will reinforce
programmatic support inhealth and education; and it will be complementedby concerted
 support to capacity-building.

33.     Preparations towards a new CAS. The current FYOO CAS, covering the period
FYO1-03, was presented to the Board on March 30, 2000. After the presentation o f the
final GPRS to the Bank, which took place in February 2003, work has begun on a new
CAS as framework for assistance during FY04-06, with Board discussion foreseen for
November 2003. This work was launched at a workshop during March 2-5, 2003 inthe
town o f Akosombo. The participants included the Minister o f Finance and Economic
Planning and senior members o f the government. Consultations with civil society and
development partners have started. The workshop took as its point o f departure the
question o f how support to the GPRS should be focused and implemented inorder more
effectively to achieve the desired outcomes. The discussions concluded that the FY04
CAS should focus support to the GPRS on the three inter-locking strategic axes: (i)
sustainable growth andjobs creation (supporting pillars 1and 2 o f the GPRS); (ii)  human
development and service delivery (supporting pillars 3 and 4 o f the GPRS); and (iii)
governance and empowerment (supporting pillar 5 o f the GPRS).

34.     The current FYOO CAS i s based on Ghana's poverty reduction strategy that was
set forth inthe Vision 2020 document. The CAS supports three strategic axes of Vision
2020: (i)  increasing economic growth, to raise incomes; (ii)    redefining the role o f the
state, to focus it on efficient service delivery; and (iii)
                                                         increasing the effectiveness o f the
implementation o f the national development strategy, by improving governance and
making efficient use ofpublic resources. The GPRS builds on the country's Vision 2020.
Given the strong strategic link, the FYOO CAS i s an adequate framework for continuing
Bankassistanceto Ghanawhile the FY04 CAS is prepared.

35.     Current portfolio. As o f March 2003, there were 21 active projects totaling
US$1163.3 million, o f which US$594.3 million remains undisbursed. The portfolio
comprises support in six areas: economic management and reform (20 percent of
commitments), infrastructure (46 percent), agriculture and rural development (11
percent), human development (13 percent), public sector management (3 percent) and
private sector development (7 percent). Two operations are currently rated unsatisfactory.
The June 2002 CPPR found lagging disbursements and frequent extensions of closing
projects, and to address these issues the CPPR made concrete recommendations to
strengthen implementation, through an action plan focused on effectiveness delays, slow
implementation pace, weak monitoring and evaluation, mainstreaming of parallel
structures created to implement projects, and sustainability issues.

                                           - 13 -

36.     Emergingthrust of assistance under the FY04 CAS. Respondingto Ghanaian
leadership and to development partners' desire to work in more programmatic and
harmonized ways, a key objective for the Bank's next CAS will be to center support on
the PRSC, complement it with existing and new lendingoperations, and underpin it with
a new set o f knowledge products. Existing operations would be geared to support this
new framework; new operations would be clearly complementary; and the overall
number o f operations would come down. From a high o f over 30, the number is today
21, and is set to fall further as many projects are set to close inFY03 and FY04, and as
the new CAS impacts the current portfolio.

37.     Initial work on the FY04 CAS has identified ways to combine the existing
portfolio with selected new lending and analysis to support the GPRS in the three areas
listed above.

38.     In the area of stimulating higher economic growth, the national strategy places
importance on maintaining macroeconomic stability; reducing the weight o f the public
sector on the economy, including its claim on financial resources and the consequent
pressure on real interest rates; improving the investment climate; enhancing international
competitiveness; and expanding and upgrading infrastructure. Agricultural production
and agro-business will remain the major source o f growth, and has considerable potential
to perform better as both the macro-economic situation and service delivery further
improve. Effective management o f natural resources and targeting o f constraints to rural
development and increased agricultural productivity are therefore key to an enhanced
growth agenda. Ghana has further potential in other industries and services, including
tourism andICT-related services.

39.     To support this strategy, as laid out in the GPRS, the authorities look for
assistance with new knowledge to underpin the design o f reforms. To respond to that
expectation, analytical work and economic dialogue will occupy pride o f place in the
Bank's assistance program.        To start with, the core diagnostic piece (International
Competitiveness - Challenges and Opportunities facing Non-Traditional Exports, FYO1)
will be used to propel the dialogue with the authorities on the public sector,
macroeconomic stability, international competitiveness and growth. This will be
reinforced with further AAA support based on a C E M on Growth, Poverty and Public
Sector Management, FY03. A Poverty Note, FY03, examining the growth and
distribution dimension will provide additional input. Work on the C E M and the Poverty
Note fed into the preparation o fthe PRSC. BeginninginFY04, annual PERs will be used
to advance the dialogue on budget formulation and implementation issues linked to
growth performance.      An Energy Policy Note and a Rural Development ESW, both
FY04, and a series o f PSIA studies will further inform future policy choice and support
programs.

40.     The areas o f emphasis in the PRSC (reducing domestic debt, improving the
investment climate and the performance of the rural sector) will be complemented by
investment lending for infrastructure and other project support that is not o f a
programmatic nature. The Bank's current project portfolio has a strong emphasis on
infrastructure, rural development and private sector development. The major Road

                                            - 14-


Sector Development Program from FY02 will continue to support the expansion and
maintenance o f roads. The energy policy note will help define future engagement in the
energy sector, as sector reforms embedded in the PRSC are implemented.              Positive
experience in urban infrastructure, environment and sanitation will allow rapid
continuation and application o f successful approaches to other municipalities. To support
agriculture and rural development, the recently restructured Agricultural Sector
Investment Program, the Rural Financial Services operation, and the coming Land
Administration Project will be complemented             by a Community-Based Rural
Development Project, foreseen for FY04. The recent study on micro-finance and the new
review o f rural development in FY04 will further chart options for the sector, guiding
both the PRSC and the cluster of sector operations. The Natural Resource Management
APL is centralto the Bank's contribution to environmental sustainability and is foreseen
to continue in a second phase. The Trade and Investment Gateway i s helpingto address
key bottlenecks to private sector development, and could after further PSD review be
complementedby support for small and medium sized enterprises. These operations are
all complementary to the approach inthe PRSC.

41.      In the area of enhancing sewice delivery for human development, the GPRS
strategy aims to close gaps in access to and utilization of basic services by the poor. An
effective strategy to reach the MDGs needs to build both on public and non-public
service providers, and to develop the linkage between service delivery and increased
growthprospects.

42.      Inhealth, the strategy is to focus ondeliveringpro-poor services, inparticularto
the disadvantaged regions, providing care for the vulnerable, the elderly andthe disabled,
and ensuring financial risk protection especially for emergencies. Public/private
partnerships are seen as having a key role. In education, the strategy is to improve the
accessibility and quality o f education in deprived areas by increasing the availability of
facilities, equipment, textbooks and teachers, and promoting gender equity in enrollment
and retention. The Government's program includes the decentralizationand improvement
o f humanresource and financial management.

43.      The Health Sector Program Support Project, FY03, continues the Bank's
participation in the multi-donor health SWAP. The PRSC strongly complements the
policy dialogue in health financing and human resources, two o f the critical issues with
economy-wide implications. An Education Sector Project, FY04, i s being prepared to
support a new Ghanaian sector strategy. The programmatic approach being adopted first
in health, and later in education, will allow development partners to enhance their
support, allow rapid take-up o f new resources and align with the economy-wide
MDBS/PRSC programs.           The Ghana AIDS Response Project, FYO1, is disbursing
rapidly, and additional funding will be needed at some point. The Community Based
Poverty Support Project i s gaining momentum and will be complemented by budgetary
support to selected districts for programs for the vulnerable and excluded.

44.      Rural service delivery, water and other infrastructure i s further supported by two
projects, Community Water, FYOO, and Village Infrastructure, FY97, in addition to those
mentioned in the previous section. A decentralized approach would be mainstreamed in

                                           - 15 -


the urban and m a l projects now under preparation, in particular the Community-Based
Rural Development Project.

45.     To improve governance and efficiency in the management of thepublic sector and
public resources, the GPRS proposes a strategy including decentralization of
government; strengthening o f accountability o f public officials to the population; and
improved public expenditure management. The GPRS further foresees better use of
measuring results, monitoring and evaluation, and o f public information, communication
and dialogue.

46.    To complement the major PRSC thrust inthis area, capacity buildingprojects will
be reorganized by substituting one new project with an integrated approach
(Accountability, Capacity Buildingand Decentralization Project, FY04) for the originally
planned follow-ups to the two existing individualprojects (Public Finance Management
Technical Assistance Project, FY97; and Public Sector Management Project, FY99, both
closing in2003), and a previously foreseen stand-alone Decentralization Project. Further
support will be provided through AAA delivered within the context o f the multi-donor
support to capacity building, including through a common technical assistancepool.

47.    LendingEnvelope. Ghana's IDA allocation for FY03-05 was SDR 432 million
(US$570 million), and is SDR 444 million (US$586 million) for FY04-06. This would
cover future PRSCs, plus other lending. FY03 lending totalled US$220 million.

48.    A base case for the future CAS would allow continuation of commitments at
current levels. However, with strong performance and sustained reform, building on
continued vibrant dialogue on appropriate policy choice, and creating enhanced capacity
to absorb resource transfers, particularly as decentralization progresses, a high case can
be envisioned with an increase in IDA commitments. The PRSC, complemented with
other more rapidly implemented operations under the existing portfolio and with new
lending, will be the Bank's contribution to a major effort by development partners to
move toward programmatic and harmonized support to Ghana's poverty reduction
strategy.

49.    The Development Partnership. Donor coordination continues to be a strong
point inthe assistance to Ghana. The latest C G was held inApril 2002. Quarterly "mini-
CGs" allow for regular structured dialogue. The GPRS, and the extensive consultation
that preceded it, created a stronger partnership.    The preparation o f the MDBS has
deepened the commitment to highstandards o fpartnership: a common dialogue, common
review processes and convergence towards a common Progress Assessment Framework,
as embodied inthe agreement o f the principles ina Framework Memorandum(see Annex
3). The successful experience in the health sector has been important, where support to
one program, pooling o f resources and common disbursement arrangements reduced
transaction costs to government and improved the likelihood o f better outcomes. The
PRSC will deepen this development partnership.

                                              - 16-

               5.      THE POVERTYREDUCTIONPROGRAM
                                  FOR PRSCSUPPORT

 50.    Lessonsfrom recentadjustmentcredits andtheir use. Recent Bank support to
adjustment in Ghana has been under a series o f Economic Reform Support Operations:
ERSO I,11, and 111. The implementation o f the programs supported by these credits has
been broadly satisfactory. ERSO 111, which was approved at the beginning o f FY02,
stipulated triggers for movingto fbrther adjustment support. Progress incompliance with
triggers for hture adjustment lending established in ERSO I11is reported in Annex 1.
While slower than expected, since July 2001,considerable progress has been achieved in
addressing structural constraints to the country's growth andpoverty reductionprospects.
However, in areas such as divestiture o f state-owned assets, and reform of energy and
public sector, progress has been slow, especially when international market conditions
made the sale o f enterprises impossible or the domestic coalition in support of reforms
weakened. The recent experience points to five main lessons.

51.     First, flexibility i s crucial to be able to respond to evolving situations, to allow
fine tuning the program and to address issues not fully identified at the outset. Second,
Government commitment to reforms is critical if policy actions are to be sustained.
Recent reforms demonstrate that significant progress can be achieved, in a relatively
short period, when the authorities take the lead and adopt an appropriate communication
strategy in implementing the policy agenda. Third, selectivity and realism are essential
when the reform agenda i s vast. Inthese situations, there i s a need to define a hierarchy
and sequence of country-owned reforms. Fourth, donor coordination is vital to avoid
over-stretching the government. Fifth, quick-disbursing operations should be framed ina
context where they add value to other instruments and to sector-specific projects. These
lessons informed the design of the programdescribed below.

52.     The Program. The dialogue betweenthe Ghanaian authorities and Bank staff on
a program that could be supported by the Bank with a possible PRSC sought to buildon
the Government's GPRS and its policy matrix and the findings inthe JSA. The result i s
the program submitted by the Ghanaian authorities for PRSC support, which has been
articulated under three components (see Letter o f Development Policy, Schedule 1): (i)
promoting growth, incomes and employment; (ii)         improving service delivery for human
development; and (iii)   improving governance and public sector management. These are
the areas inwhich PRSC support would reinforce existing programs andprojects with the
elements o f opportunity and empowerment needed to reach the poverty reduction goals of
the GPRS. Clear objectives are strong, broad-based growth to reduce income poverty;
improved delivery o f human development services in the deprived areas to enhance
chances o f reaching the MDGs; and stronger governance (as the means to empowerment)
and raising the efficiency and quality o f resource utilization (eliminating waste and
leakage) for steadier progress on poverty reduction.

53.    Inthe area of growth, income and employment, the program foresees action on
two fronts: The first front is: (i)   eliminating factors that inhibit growth generally (high
public domestic debt, crowding out credit to the private sector and keeping interest rates

                                             - 17-

high, and limiting scope in the budget for financing services that are supportive of
development); and (ii)    reducing the cost o f doing business (including unreliable and
"high-price" supply o f critical inputs, especially energy, andhightransaction costs). The
second front i s removing constraints on rural development. This sector has been chosen
because: (i)it has the bulk o fthe natural resources; (ii) is home to the largest number o f
                                                         it
the people; and (iii)it has the largest proportiono fthe poor.

54.     Inthe areao fservice deliveryfor human development,the program focuses on: (i)
expanding access to education and health services, with particular attention to the needs
o f underserved areas and populations; and (ii)     improving the efficiency and equity o f
financing. By focusing on these under the PRSC, the authorities count on using to
advantage the spotlight on poverty in the GPRS to deal with the issues o f unequal
regional and gender outcomes in health and education, and sustainable and equitable
financing o f these critical services. They also count on sharpening the national focus on
reaching the MDGs. This lets the PRSC add value in areas where support is being
providedby sector projects.

55.    Inthe areaofgovernance andpublic sector management,the programfocuses on:
(i)strengthening the institutions o f participatory democracy and accountable rule; and (ii)
improving the efficiency o f the public services and the quality o f public expenditure
management. Here too, the areas identified for PRSC support have been selected with a
view to providing value-added to sectoral support by elevating the issues to the center of
Government, where collective interest generated by the GPRS would facilitate debate,
consensus building, and decision-making.

A.     PROMOTINGGROWTH,           INCOMEAND EMPLOYMENT

Recent Growth Performance

56.    Ghana's recent growth performance (over the period 1990-2001) has been modest
-- averaging some 4 percent. The growth rate o f the very important rural sector (which
has more than 60 percent o f the population who are also predominantly poor) has been
3.2 percent -- just a shade above that o f the population. This is mainly because the
farmers still depend predominantly on traditional techniques, including using low
amounts o f modem inputs. Insufficient access to credit continues to be a particular
handicap, especially among food crop farmers. Secondary sector growth (at 2.8 percent)
has been equally lackluster, owing to low investment in equipment over time, leading to
low levels o f productivity.   The tertiary sector grew much faster than the rest (at 5.8
percent), but fiom a low base (outside o f government administration), and reflecting
largely a surge in services supported to a significant extent by resource inflows fiom
abroad.

57.    Various studies (by Bank staff in collaboration with the Government, foreign
research organizations, and local think-tanks), and surveys o f the business enterprises
have converged on the diagnosis.         Investigations o f the sluggish growth, including
empirical analytical work using the Sachs-Wemer model, have concluded that the slow
growth (compared with other faster growing Africa countries and the High Performing

                                                  - 18-


Asian Economies) i s due mainly to a combination of weak macroeconomic policies and
adverse human resource conditions. Where macroeconomic policies are concerned, the
analyses show that highandpersistent deficits from lax fiscal policy have resultedinhigh
real interest rates and a reduction o f private sector access to bankingsystem credit. The
policies have also resulted in growth-inhibiting distortion o f other factor markets. As to
the quality o f human resources, the conclusions are that the high dependency ratio and
the disease burden on the population contribute to keeping the country's growth below
the long-term potential.

58.       The Issues. The structure o f the Ghanaian economy has changed little since
independence, and reforms undertaken since the 1980s have generated only short-lived
successes in stabilization. As a result, agriculture has remained dominated by subsistence
farming, and industrial activity has consolidated largely around a handful o f activities
that survived the industrial-cum-trade policy reforms of the 1980s. The exception is the
services sector, particularly inrecent years, where growth has been aided by expansion o f
the public sector and extemal donor flows. In this context, the following issues have
been identified inthe GPRS:

   0      high public domestic debt (29 percent o f GDP at end-2002), which limits credit
          to the private sector; keeps inflation and nominal interest rates high (13 percent
          and 25 percent, respectively at end-2002); and absorbs some 29 percent of annual
          government revenues in interest charges (average 2001-02), thus limiting scope
          for fimding basic infrastructure and development services;

   0      high-cost business environment and obstacles to competitiveness, due inpart
          to high input costs (transport, energy, labor) and in part to burdensome
          regulations and administrative processes which lead to low investment and,
          hence, lagging productivity. Trade related support infrastructure, while relatively
          developed, is costly and inefficient by regional and intemational standards. In
          addition,   insufficient access to utilities such as electricity, water and
          telecommunications are considered among the major obstacles to growth o f
          business in Ghana. Permissive public sector pay and employment practices have
          led to average labor costs that are highrelative to productivity at the low end, and
          labor regulations and practices do not favor new processes (e.g. performance-
          based remuneration) likely to enhance productivity.               Trade has been hlly
          liberalized, and average extemal tariffs are among the lowest in the West Africa
          sub-region. But there i s constant risk of real exchange rate overvaluation as a
          result of the persistent higher inflation rates relative to those o f trading partners.
          Moreover, business registration, unpredictability o f laws and policies, customs
          clearance, and taxation are also identified as major problemsby private sector. At
          end 2001, Ghana ranked inthe lower quarter of countries when entry regulations
          are compared across countries6.




 I t takes 126days to start a business inGhana according to The World Bank"Doing Business Data Base"

                                             - 19-


  a     stagnation of rural development owing to anti-rural biases in the policy
        environment. The opportunities for growth lie inirrigation development to expand
        the supply base for exportable horticultural crops and developing agro-processing
        to add value to and create internal demand for staple commodities.                Major
        constraints to the realization o f the country's potential are high interest rates and
        unavailability o f rural financing, inadequate registration, titling and land
        administration procedures, high transport and marketing costs, limited access to
        technology and lack o f active farmer-based organizations.

59.     The prospects for strong, broad-based growth are weak without the significant
reforms that the Government has planned.

60.     Planned Reforms. A first set o f reforms aims at overcoming two cross-cutting
inhibitors of growth: (i) limited scope for financing development by both the private
                          the
and public sectors; and (ii)   the high cost o f doing business. Re-creating the scopefor
financing development requires primarily reducing public domestic debt to a sustainable
level. The build-up o f public domestic debt to its current level o f 29 percent o f GDP
brought in its wake high inflation and nominal interest rates. The goal i s to reduce the
stock o f debt from 29 percent o f GDP in2002 to about 15 percent by 2005, paying down
the stock with a mixture o f savings from debt relief from the HIPC initiative7, budgetary
surpluses, proceeds from privatization o f parastatals, and external assistance. This would
be supported with increased budgetarydiscipline, including the elimination of subsidies
to parastatals which have been allowed to operate with soft budget constraints. The
objective i s to reduce pressure on interest rates and create scope for increased use o f
credit by the private sector, and free budgetary resources for non-wage recurrent poverty-
related spending.

61.     A second set o f reforms aims at addressing the high costs o f doing business and
improving the business environment by: (i)       creating a more stable supply o f energy
(electricity and petroleum products) as inputs into production and household
consumption, ensuring the viability o f the sectors by enabling them to charge economic
prices (albeit with a life-line tariff for the poor), reducing the need for budgetary
subsidies, and implementing a recently approved power reform program that is expected
to result in efficiency gains; and (ii)   enhancing international competitiveness through
trade facilitation and reducing the transaction costs of doing business by improving
regulatory and administrative processes. An area targeted for improvements is custom
clearance procedures, where automation (GCMYGCNET) can result intime savings and
reduction o f official discretion. This has been done successfully at the airport (under
PRSC-1) where clearances are concluded within 24 hours at most. For PRSC-2,
automation (GCMSGCNET) of customs procedures will be completed at Takoradi and
Tema ports, where 60 percent of the country's imports pass. Further actions are planned
for improvements in customs services. On the basis o f recent analytical work and
economic sector work planned on firm level competitiveness, during PRSC-2 a



7 The HIPC DecisionPointDocument (IDNR2002-2005) refers to the use for domestic debtreductionof
20 percentofreliefprovidedunderthe enhancedHIPC Initiative.

                                            - 20 -

comprehensive program to improve trade facilitation will be agreed upon for
implementation. In addition, a FIAS report on regulatory and administrative barriers to
business, currently being finalized, will form the basis o f a time-bound action plan o f
priority measures to remove identified constraints.

62.      A final set o f reforms is in the economic environment of the rural sector. This
sector has been selected because o f the economy's comparative advantage and its role as
a source o f inputs to industry and income for the largest segment of the population. The
planned reforms are: (i) increase farmer income in the cocoa sector by implementing
                            to
the medium-term strategy which involves adjusting the producer price upwards from
some 68 percent in2002 to about 70 percent by 2005, and eliminating as from 2003, the
economic rent previously accruing to local processors o f cocoa beans who received a
discount on their purchase o f cocoa beans compared to the f.0.b. price; (ii)to
operationalize an action plan to bring progress in selected areas (e.g. market access,
extension services, technology) critical for the development o f the rural farm and non
farm sub-sectors; and (iii) harmonize terms and conditions for and, thereby, increase
                              to
the supply o f micro-finance to small farmers (principally for food crop producers who
dominate the ranks of the rural poor). By supporting these growth-oriented reforms, the
PRSC brings value added to actions already supported by Bank-financed credits in the
area o f rural development, trade and infrastructure.

63.      Expected Outcomes. It is expected that, as a result o f the reforms and barring
unfavorable exogenous events, the real GDP growth rate would rise from 4.5 percent in
2002 to about 5 percent in 2005, with prospects for better performance in the years to
follow. This would result largely from improvements inthe general policy environment,
assisted by greater efficiency in management o f the public sector.             The related
improvement in the public finances would enhance the capacity to fund basic
infrastructure (especially planned farm-to-market roads) and extension services (in the
larger sense o f support to productive sectors).

64.      This outcome is expected from several intermediate results: (i)   reduced interest
rates to create room for private sector access to credit, as well as increased budget
allocation to development and other poverty reducing expenditure; (ii)improved
financial results at Electricity Company o f Ghana (ECG), Volta River Authority (VRA),
andTema Oil Refinery (TOR), leading to a considerable decline insubsidies requiredby
these companies and thereby allowing more development and poverty spending; (iii)
more viable energy sector capable of expanding and sustaining supply o f energy while
providing life-line protection for the poor; (iv) risinginternational competitiveness, based
on trade facilitation and falling transaction costs; and improved credit availability to the
rural sector, allowing food crop farmers (who make up the bulk o f the rural poor) to buy
modeminputsandfinance inventories to raise their incomes.

65.      Given the range o f the reforms and the time they might take, the Government's
growth target for 2003-05 i s a fairly modest 5 percent. To achieve this, it is expected
that agriculture would grow by an average of 4.8 percent, compared to 4.1 percent in
2002. The increase i s premised on the expected improvements in access to land; the
promotion of effective marketing and storage; and the minimization o f post-harvest

                                            - 2 1 -


losses. It i s expected that industry would grow at an average o f 5.2 percent, rising from
4.7 percent in 2002. The stronger performance i s expected to result from increases in
ago-industrial processing; lower transaction costs associated with production, lower real
interest rates resulting from a decline in inflation and inflationary expectations; and the
impact o f cost recovery pricinginutilities. It i s expected that services would grow at an
average o f 5.1 percent, compared to 4.7 percent in 2002. This improved performance i s
assumed to follow from increases in trade and commerce related to the stronger
performance by agriculture and industry, as well as tourism.

B.      IMPROVING SERVICEDELIVERYFOR HUMANDEVELOPMENT

B.l     Education

66.     Between 1995 and 2001, there was slow progress o f coverage at the primary
education level. Enrollments increased marginally and gross enrollment rate (GERs),
currently hovers around 80 percent.        In addition, most of this gain in coverage is
attributable to the dynamic response by private institutions to increased demand, which
have seentheir share intotal primary enrollments soar to 18.3 percent.

67.     The Issues. Among different challenges faced by the sector, the following are the
most pressing:

    0   Persistent inequalities in access at all levels.       Education outcomes in the
        Northern, Upper East and Upper West regions are considerably worse than the
        national average. In those three regions, gross primary enrollment is about 25
        percent lower than the national rate o f 80 percent. Depending on the district, the
        situation being worse in the Northern, Upper East and Upper West Regions, the
        percentage o f primary-aged children not in school ranges from 22 percent to 77
        percent. In addition, the GER for girls is still lagging by about 7 percent that for
        boys. Demand and supply-side factors both contribute to slow progress at the
        basic education level. In addition to other, financial obstacles hinder attendance
        andretention, especially for girls, andcontribute to existing disparities inaccess.


    0   Access, Quality and Efficiency. Access and quality o f education i s a concern at
        all levels. Completion rates at the primary level are relatively high (64 percent),
        and repetition is relatively low, but delayed enrollment is widespread, and
       dropouts frequent. The quality of education provided inpublic schools i s low. In
       2000, only 9.6 percent o f the students achieved mastery level in English, and 4.4
       percent in Mathematics (vs. 78 percent and 54 percent respectively in private
       schools). Uneven distribution and inefficient use o f humanresources contribute to
       low quality o f education, as well as delays in textbook distribution. Primary
       teachers lack motivation (working and living conditions) to stay in remote areas.
       Absenteeism and turnaround rates are both exceptionally high.

   0   Weak relevance and unsustainable funding mechanisms threaten education
       outcomes. Inadequate cooperation with the private sector and the weak relevance
       o f curricula, all contribute to the absence o f innovation. Low expenditures per

                                             - 22 -

        student, quasi-absence o f cost-recovery and a loan student scheme that does not
        favor the poor (inefficient allocation o fresources amongst institutions worsens the
        sector's overall performance), contribute to make the sub-sector financially
        unsustainable.

    0   Issuesofefficiencyandequitableuseof resourcesinthe educationsectorAs a
        whole, the education sector has constantly attracted a considerable share o f public
        resources (currently about 27 percent o f the recurrent discretionary budget).
        However, in 2002, 94.7 percent o f education recurrent expenditure went to pay
        salaries and only 5.3 percent remained for non-salary expenditures. Thus, the
        roots o f low performance lie ininadequate management planningand insufficient
        non-salary budget going directly to improve learning in the classroom, the latter
        due inpart to a low execution rate o f the non-salary recurrent budget o f the sector
        (about 64 percent in 2002). This situation, in addition to weak management o f
        teacher resources leads to inadequacy in allocation and not enough attention to
        deprived areas.     Management issues, including o f the wage bill, are major
        stumbling blocks at all educational and administrative levels.

68.     PlannedReforms. Given the challenges identified inthe GPRS, late in2002 the
Government completed an Education Sector Review and the President's report on
"Meeting the Challenges o f Education in the 21Stcentury".            Simultaneously, Ghana
became eligible to present a planto the Education-for-allEast-Track-Initiative (EFMTI)
and started preparing its proposal.       Drawing on the described work, an Education
Strategic Plan i s being finalized to identify a clear set of costed objectives embracing the
MDGgoals and consistent with the GPRS. The planwill identify a set of reforms aimed
at increasing access and improving efficiency and equity o f financing education by
strengthening management o fthe sector.

69.     While sector specific issues will be dealt with in the context o f the forthcoming
Bank-financed education project, the PRSC focuses on selected policy issues that require
broad consensus within Government to be tackled. First, it emphasizes improved access
andquality o fbasic educationindeprivedareas andpromotion o f gender equity. Second,
it supports improved allocation, efficiency andequity o f financing education. Addressing
these issues is critical both for the successful achievement o fthe sector's GPRS goals and
for progress towards the MDGs (see schedule 4).

70.     With a view to increase access in basic education, particularly in the most
deprived regions, the Government has launched a mapping exercise to better identify
underserved communities which would benefit from a higher allocation of resources.
The mapping exercise i s expected to cover about 35 o f the country's 110 districts by end-
2004.   Moreover, to promote gender equity in enrollment and retention and provide
equitable educational opportunities specific actions will be carried out. First, an incentive
scheme which will include a scholarship system targeted on girls will be implementedin
deprived districts. Second, all government fees for primary schools will be removed in
2004, prioritizing the most deprived communities, especially in the underserved regions
(Northern, Upper East and Upper West). Third, capitation grants will also be introduced
inprimary schools inthese deprived communities as well as inall basic schools for the

                                            - 23 -

 disabled to ensure that school activities, formally dependent on the fees and levies,
 continue. The quality o f basic education will also be improved by a more balanced,
 equitable and rational deployment of teachers, the provision o f an adequate supply o f
 textbooks and o f sufficient teaching and learning material, all with special attention to
 most deprived communities.       In this context, a teacher incentive program will be
 implemented in 2004, to facilitate their relocation to underserved communities while a
 more comprehensive approach to employment and pay issues are expected to be dealt
 within ofa broader context (see paragraph 94).

 71.    To improve the efficiency and equity offinancing education, the Government i s
determined to reform the education policy and to adopt measures to improve efficiency
and equity inthe use o f resources. Inthis vein, a draft Education Strategic Plan has been
completed and a meeting was held inMay, 2003 with Development Partners to mobilize
support. Moreover, a new Education Act will be submitted for Parliamentary approval
later in 2003.     Efforts will also focus on improving human resource and financial
management and ensuring an improved balance between salary and non-salary recurrent
expenditures. Given anti-poor bias incurrent cost recovery practices, the Government i s
determined to reform and make effective in 2004 a new cost-recovery policy starting
from the tertiary education level.

72.     ExpectedOutcomes. Bythe end o fthe 3-year PRSCprogram, it is expected that
the following outcomes will be reached on the way to MDGs:

                      Table 5: Education GPRS Outcomes for 2005
                                           -

                                      1990        2002      2005       2015


             National                 79          80        90         100

              ofwhich:

             - NorthernRegion         n.a.        62        70         100

           - Upper EastRegion         n.a         70        79         100

            - Upper West Region       n.a         56        63         100




73.     These outcomes are expected from several intermediate results: (i)    reduction of
drop out rates for girls from 39 percent to 30 percent over the period 2002-2005; (ii)
increase o f the teacher: pupil andpupil: textbook ratio inmost deprivedregions (see page
3 of Schedule 2).

                                           - 24 -


B. 2 Health

74.    Over the past five years, health status and the performance o f the health system
have improved inGhana. Measurable improvements were seen inlife expectancy, infant
mortality, and under 5 five mortality. Ghana compares favorably with other African
countries and i s on track to meet many o fthe MDGs.

75.    The Issues: The following are the main issues that constrain the sector's
development prospects:

    0  Persistenceof inequalitiesin health: Large regional inequalities exist andseem
       to be increasing in health access, need and use o f services between the poor and
       the non poor and between rural and urban populations. As a result, health
       outcomes inthe poorest regions are considerably worse than the national average.
       Table 6, below, shows that the under five mortality rate in the Northern, Upper
       East, Upper West and Central regions is significantly higher than the national
       average o f 110 per 1,000 live births. Despite investments to improve physical
       access, utilizationhas remained low.

    0  Budgetary under-fundingof the sector: Insufficient public financing is offset
       by a high rate o f private spending in Ghana, including user fees known as the
       "cash and carry system", which comprise approximately 11percent o f financing
       o f the health sector. The failure o f the existing exemption policies has left a
       growing financial barrier that substantially precludes the poor from using health
       services.   Only an estimated 49 percent o f women have supervised deliveries
       although uptake o fprenatal care, which i s free, is higher than 80 percent.

    0  Brain drain and unequal distribution of staff Despite an "additional duty
       hours allowance" that i s paid to health workers to top off their salaries and
       provide an incentive to remain in the public sector, Ghana continues to lose
       doctors and nurses to the UK and neighboring African countries. The distribution
       o f those staff who remain i s heavily skewed towards Accra and other urbanareas.

    0  The untapped potential contribution from private providers: The private
       sector, which provides more than a third o f all health services in Ghana, i s an
       untapped potential that could be more integrated into the MOH service delivery
       plans, particularly concerning access to health care for the poor.         However,
       private practice is less common in the remote areas and innovative ways will be
       requiredto encourage its development.

    0  The potential devastatingimpact of HIV/AIDS: HIV/AIDS already accounts
       for 12percent o f deaths inGhana, and it will be a major challenge to integrate and
       finance HIV/AIDS activities into the sector, particularly introducing Highly
       Active Anti-retroviral Treatment (HAART). (see para. 83)

76.    Planned Reforms. In 2002, Ghana has approved a second five year health
strategy and corresponding Program o f Work (POW). The POW describes the health
sector policy and is aligned with the GPRS. The key components of the Government's
policy are: (i) addressing HIV/AIDs threat, using the HIV/AIDS control strategy; (ii)

                                                     - 25 -


 shiftingfrom facility-based services byemphasizing communitybased care; (iii)                       reducing
 financial barriers by abolishing the cash and carry system, thereby ensuring that no one
lacking funds at the time of needs is denied essential health care; (iv) reforming the
financing arrangements for the entire sector by replacing the requirement to pay at the
time o f service with prepayment and insurance arrangements; (v) increasing the use o f
non-governmental and private health providers; (vi) emphasizing control o f malaria, TB,
and the elimination o f Guinea Worm, and strengthening reproductive, maternal and child
health, and EPI services; (vii) decentralizing resource management to budget
management centers; (viii) improving staff motivation and health worker incentives; and
(ix) undertaking inter-sectoral collaboration for health related issues like sanitation and
nutrition.

77.       Implementation o f the POW i s being supported by the health SWAP(Sector Wide
Approach) and the Ghana AIDS Response Project. The PRSC complements that support
by elevating to the center o f Government three issues that receivedparticular attention in
the GPRS. First, it draws Government's attention to existing inequities by supporting the
GPRS's priority to the most deprived regions. Second, it supports measures to encourage
health professionals to work in remote areas. Third, it also supports measures aimed at
ensuring sustainable financing arrangements, which protect the poor. Another important
dimension o f the PRSC i s that it also supports programs expected to have the greatest
impact on the MDGs (see schedule 4).*

78.       Bridging equity gaps in access to quality health services. The Government has
adopted the Community Based Health System - or CHPS - as its strategy to provide cost
effective and adequate quality basic primary health services to individuals and
households where they live. An important characteristic o f the CHPS approach i s that the
community i s involved in the planning and delivery o f services, meaning that the
program will address not only the supply-side issue o f health services, but also demand-
side issues. A phased approach to implementation, with priority attached to the most
deprived regions, has already begunan i s expected to allow for at 55 percent coverage at
the community level. In order to accelerate achievement o f the MDGs, the Government
has also introduced a program to reduce under 5 and maternal mortality that prioritizes
cost effective interventions such as immunization and bed net use for malaria control.
Analyses completed by UNICEF suggest that effective coverage could be expected to
reduce the under-five mortality rate by 15 percent at a cost-effectiveness o f
approximately $500 per child life saved in northern Ghana, where the under-five
mortality rate is an average 160/1000 across the 4 regions.                 This program has started in
two of the deprivedregions and will be expandedto include the other two regions during
the PRSC period. While employment and pay issues are expected to be dealt with inthe
context o f a broader reform (see paragraph 94), to facilitate achievement o f the sector's
goals an incentive scheme will be implemented in2004 to encourage relocation of health
professionals to underservedregions.




* A recent progress report indicates that o f all the indicators, maternal mortality is the target Ghana i s least
likely to meet.

                                                 - 26 -

 79.     In addition to removing barriers of geographical access to health service, the
 Government also intends to ensure sustainable financing arrangements that protect the
poor: While the cash andcarry system will be phased out, there i s still a need to maintain
 some form o f "exemption system" that identifies people who shouldnot have to pay for
 services. Several studies have been completed in Ghana conceming the problems with
 the exemption system including lack of funds and poor management.g The Government
 intends to reform this system and has adopted the decision to exempt all deliveries inthe
 four deprived regions, as part o f the actions supported by PRSC-1.                 This exemption
 policy will be expanded to the whole country during PRSC-2. Improvements in the
 resource allocation formula will also be made at the same time to ensure that more funds
 go to these areas to pay for this enlarged exemption program. Government i s also
 encouraging the development o f mutual health organizations (MHOs) as a strategy to
 provide financial protection for the poor." More than 250 MHOs already exist inGhana
 and the Government has drafted a health insurance law that place them under an
 umbrella-like National Health Insurance Fund. The law also establishes a reinsurance
 fund, to be financed partly from a National Health Premium of 2% percent on value
 added which i s planned to be administered on the same base basis as the value-added tax.
 Evaluation o f the financial and management arrangements of this Fund, which could
potentially serve as a broader social insurance scheme in the future, will be prepared
 duringPRSC-2.

 80.     Expected Outcomes. By the end o f the 3-year program, it is expected that the
 following outcomes will be reached on the way to MDGs:

                          Table 6: Health-GPRSOutcomesfor 2005


                                              1990        2000          2005        2015
         Under5 mortalityrate
         (per 1,000 live births)
           National                           119         112           95          41


        I   - NorthemRegion                1I n.a         171           130         n.a
                                              n.a      III155           116         n.a

                                                          156        III117     III n.a      III
            - Central
         Maternal mortality ratio
          (per 100,000 livebirths)




  See Garshong, E., G. Dakpallah, et al. (2001). `We are still paying' A study on factors affecting the
implementation o f the exemptions policy inGhana, HealthResearchUnit,Ministryo fHealth, Accra;
loThe GOGis usingHIPC funds to establish MHOs at the District level.

                                           - 27 -


81.      These outcomes are expected from several intermediate results: (i)      increase in
DPT3 coverage from 75 percent in2000 to 90 percent in2005; (ii) insupervised
                                                                    increase
deliveries from 49 percent in2000 to 55 percent in2005; (iii)  ensure that the share o f the
sector's recurrent budget spending on the four underserved regions increases from 32
percent in2000 to 39 percent in2005.


B.3      HIVIAIDS

82.      The HIV/AIDS epidemic has in recent years been receiving more attention from
the Government. A "strategic framework for HIV/AIDS" has been prepared to enable
Ghana to implement a balanced, diversified, multi-sector response, engaging all relevant
government sectors, non-governmentalorganizations andgrassroots initiatives.

83.      The Issues: Ghana has one o f the lowest prevalence rates o f HIV in the region.
However, the risk o f a rapid increase i s great and calls for commitment at the highest
levels of Government to sustain the National Response over the long term. The Ghana
AIDS Commission (GAC) estimates that nationally, sero-prevalence will rise from
around 3.6 percent today to somewhere inthe range of 4 to 9 percent by 2014 depending
on the efficiency o f control measures. The potential impact on the economy and society
makes HIV/AIDS one o f the single most important issues the Government o f Ghana will
face inimplementing its poverty reduction strategy. Inthe health sector alone, to treat 25
percent o f AIDS patients in2005 with a fill package o f treatment including ARVs would
require a tripling o f the current health budget, squeezing spending in other priority
programs. The epidemic i s also leaving numerous children as orphans and on the street.

84.      Planned Reforms. The GPRS describes a strategy to reduce the spread o f
HIV/AIDS epidemic that focuses on four areas. First, prevent transmission of HIV by
improving service delivery, intensifying behavior change and communication activities
and introducing special programs for high risk groups. Second, provide treatment or a
continuum o f care for People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) and their families.
Third, build capacity for organizations working with PLWHA, within the context of the
District Response Initiative. Fourth, reduce stigmatization and discrimination through
interventions with the judicial system and human rights organizations. Many o f these
activities are being implemented under the IDA-financed Ghana AIDS Response Project
and in collaboration with other development partners.       In spite of progress achieved
recently in the implementation of activities at the community level to prevent AIDS
transmission and provide care to PLWHAs and AIDS orphans, it is critical to scale up
the local initiatives program. Inorder to raise awareness for the local initiatives program,
including for the need to ensure access by the four deprived regions, and to make
progress towards the MDGs (see schedule 4), the Government has proposed to include it
inthe agenda supported by the PRSC. UnderPRSC-1, the authorities implemented 500
initiatives to prevent HIV transmission and provide care to PLWHA, orphans and
families. This program will continue and the Government i s determined to step it up in
the four most deprived regions, which have benefited significantly less, to date, from that
program.

                                             - 28 -

 85.    ExpectedOutcomes. By the end of the three-year PRSC period, Ghana expects
to maintain the HIV prevalence rate among pregnant women, aged 15-24, below five
percent, through increased financing (particularly in the four deprived regions) o f
community-based initiatives with an emphasis on AIDS orphans, PLWHAs, stigma and
discrimination, andvoluntary counseling and testing.

B.4     SpecialProgramsfor the Vulnerable andExcluded

 86.    The fourth Ghana Living Standard Survey and various poverty assessments have
documented the incidence o f vulnerability and exclusion. They found that the groups
most affected are: (i)  children indifficult circumstances, including victims o f child labor,
street children, school drop-outs, and orphans; (ii) people living with HIV/AIDS and their
families; (iii)displaced communities that have suffered from floods, droughts, and
similar events; (iv) disadvantaged women, including teenage mothers and sex workers;
(v) residents o f urban slums; (vi) the elderly with no family care or pension; (vii)
physically challenged persons; and (viii) victims o fharmful traditional practices.


87.     The Issues. The GPRS identifies the factors creating susceptibility to
vulnerability and exclusion as: (i)extremely low returns to farming or fishing,
particularly in the northem savannah and coastal belt; (ii)      lack o f viable alternative
economic activities in rural areas; (iii)   limited impact o f economic policies on gainful
employment for the poor; and (iv) limited opportunities for improved apprenticeship,
vocational and technical training. The strategy also recognizes that there i s a basis for an
effort to mainstream concern for vulnerability and exclusion into general national policy
making at both the macroeconomic and sectoral levels. While recognizing the laudable
work o f NGOs in assisting the vulnerable and excluded, it sees the need to develop
special national interventions to deliver targeted assistance to those in particularly
difficult circumstances.

88.     Planned Reforms. In line with the above, the authorities have developed two
types o f specific interventions with which to assist the vulnerable over the GPRS period.
The first is a program o f targeted material assistance, which will be carried out at the
district level on the basis of approaches related to Community Development and district
empowerment. It will consist o fproviding budgetary funding at the local level; and using
local governance structures to review, approve and support the implementation of
proposals. Criteria for reviewing these activities are being developed, and local
governance structures will implement the program. The second is an expansion o f the
Program for Street Children, including the incorporation o f a the element o f helping
integrate children into mainstream society. A vulnerability mapping exercise will be
carried out in 2004 to improve the knowledge base for managing targeting o f
interventions for the extreme poor andvulnerable.


89.     ExpectedOutcomes. By the end o f the three-year PRSC period, Ghana expects
to make the followingprogress on support programs for the vulnerable and excluded:

                                            - 29 -


   0   At least 20 districts have actually received budgetarysupport to carry out
      programs for the vulnerable and excluded;
   0   At least 3,000 children havebenefitedform the Street ChildrenProgram.

c.     IMPROVINGGOVERNANCE PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
                                    AND

90.    As outlined inthe GPRS, the promotion of growth andpoverty reduction will rely
on a governance framework that is characterized by a democratic, inclusive, and
decentralized state, a capable and motivated public service, an effective policy, budget
management and implementationprocess.

91.   The Issues. While Ghana has made significant progress in these areas, there is
considerable work ahead infour main areas:

   0  building a democratic, inclusive, and decentralized state - there has been
      limited progress in decentralizing human and financial resources to District
      Assemblies; administrative authority remains concentrated inthe capital Accra.

   0  improving performance of the public sector - there is need to: (i) the   review
      experiences o f recent public sector reforms, align these reforms with the goals and
      objectives o f the GPRS, and to ensure that public sector reforms gain new
      momentum; (ii)       strengthen wage bill control and develop a revised pay and
      incentive system for the public sector that would enable Government to attract
      and retain necessary skills to implement the GRPS. Presently, the unrewarding
      job environment makes the public service uncompetitive for talented managers
      and professionals, most notably in the area of medicine, tertiary education,
      economics, and public policy analysis. The Government's ability to improve the
      conditions o f public service to recruit and retain critical skills i s highly
      constrained, as the current wage bill already constitutes about 60 percent o f the
      Government non-interest recurrent expenditures. The reasons for the high wage
      bill include: (a) the current budget practice which does not provide incentives for
      managers to make rational staffing decisions; (b) the fact that almost eighty
      percent o f the public service are outside the civil service and are not subject to
      adequate monitoring and control; and (c) the weak oversight o f payroll
      management.

      strengthening the fiduciary framework and public expenditure management
      - there are:    (i)weaknesses inthe budget formulation, inparticular lack of
      consistency between the annual budget and the GPRS, insufficient links between
      resource allocation and policies, and the lack o f functional information in the
      budget classification structure; (ii)  weaknesses in the budget implementation, in
      particular lack o f compliance with rules and regulations, unpredictable
      expenditure authorization, the inadequate commitment control, and the weak
      procurement management and oversight; (iii)      weaknesses in the areas o f budget
      monitoring and reporting, in particular weak internal audit; failure to prepare
      reliable annual accounts fully within the statutory requirement o f three months
      after the end o f the fiscal year; and the inadequate performance o f the external

                                             - 30 -

        audit finction; and (iv) lack o f capacity in several aspects o f public financial
        management continue to undermine the effectiveness o f reforms.

    0   strengthening the capacity to monitor and evaluate the policy agenda:
        drawbacks include: (i)the lack of a monitoring & evaluation framework to
        provide oversight over the implementation o f the GPRS; (ii)      problems in using
        M&E findings to adjust Government policies; and (iii) inthe availability of
                                                                    gaps
        poverty related data, and insufficient use o fparticipatory M&Emechanisms.

92.     PlannedReforms. To meet the objectives o fthe GPRS o fimproving governance
and public sector management, the Government has chosen a strategic approach that
consists o f three elements: (i) a careful evaluation o f previous reform experiences aims at
clearly establishing impact, results and successes; (ii)      reforms will then be analyzed
against the priorities identified inthe GRPS to ensure consistency o f policy and reforms;
and (iii)to the extent possible, reforms will be integratedinto a consistent framework that
strives for complementarity o freform initiatives to increase effectiveness.

93.     Building a democratic, inclusive and decentralized state. The GPRS attaches
high priority to further strengthening the regulatory framework for decentralization. A
key element inthis context i s the establishment o f a new Local Government Service that
aims at ensuring an effective administration for the District Assemblies and the Regional
Coordinating Councils. The legal instrument for the creation o f the new service is the
Local Government Service Bill which is expected to be enacted in 2003. Based on a
decentralization implementation action plan, to be approved during PRSC-2, public
servants currently attached to the central government would be transferred to local
governments. The PRSC supports this process that is expected to fundamentally change
the provision o fpublic services.

94.     Improve performance of the public sector. The transformation o f Ghana's large
and inefficient public sector into a professional and effective service has been on the
political agenda for many years. While the GPRS emphasizes the importance o f public
sector reforms it is the Government's view that previous reform programs have not
yielded expected results. In collaboration with the World Bank and the UK, the
Government has launched an independentreview o f all public sector programs, including
the World Bank Public Sector Management Reform Program. The results o f the review
will provide the basis for a Cabinet discussion about scope and focus o f future reforms
which will aim at addressing priority issues such as size, motivation and capacity of the
public sector, the reduction o f the significant number o f subvented agencies, the
improvement o f the efficiency o f the Central Management Agencies, the lack o f
performance orientation, and the lack o f compliance with formal rules under existing
Government policies. The findings and recommendations o f the review will be presented
to Cabinet which i s expected to issue a policy statement inlate 2003 with orientations for
a comprehensive public sector reform, including public sector pay and employment
issues. The PRSC supports this process which, building on the policy statement, will
result in the definition o f a time-bound public sector reform program to be launched in
2004.

                                         - 31 -

95.     In the meantime, the Government is determined to continue ongoing actions to
update the payroll system and to improve control of the wage bill. As a first step, a
comprehensive census o f the public sector i s planned to be completed in 2003.
Subsequently, the census results will be used to update the existing payroll systems and
to establish a credible database of public sector employment to prevent fiaud and
negligence inpayroll management.

96.    A key instrument to support the Government's reform program will be a new
Accountability and Capacity BuildingProject in FY04 that will integrate public finance
andbroaderpublic sector reform. The new project will complement budgetary assistance
by the World Bank (PRSC) and other development partners in the context o f the Multi-
donor Budget Support Initiative.

97.    Strengthening thefiduciary framework andpublic expenditure management. The
GRPS recognizes the importance o f urgently improving the system o f public finance to
ensure success in the fight to reduce poverty.    The Government is implementing a
comprehensive reform program that aims at addressing key weaknesses o f the public
financial management system. Particular attention will be attached to the implementation
of the recommendations o f the ongoing CPAR and CFAA to reduce the fiduciary risks
andleakages inthe use o fpublic resources.

                 Box 2: Ghana-Public ExpenditureManagement

                                            - 32 -



98.       The reform program o f the Government which will be supported by the PRSC
includes inter alia: (i)a new Financial Administration Bill to improve the general legal
framework      for   transparent   and accountable public        expenditure    management.
Implementation o fthe new bill i s planned to beginimmediately after its passage into law
by Parliament in2003; (ii) Central Internal Audit Agency Bill, which will strengthen
                              the
independence o f the audit function and define standards of practice in intemal audit, will
be presented to Parliament for passage into law after approved by Cabinet inthe context
o f PRSC-1. Its implementationi s plannedto beginduringPRSC-2; (iii)         a new integrated
financial management system (BPEMS) i s beingimplemented that will rationalize budget
and expenditure management and provide accurate and timely information. The new
system has been deployed on a pilot basis to the Ministry o f Finance and the Accountant
General's Department. It will be subsequently rolled out the other central government
agencies. It i s presently anticipated that Government core accounting for the
Consolidated Fundwill be transferred to the new system before the end o f 2004; (iv) the
Government i s presently simplifyingthe Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (the key
budget planning instrument) to improve efficiency and revitalize the MTEF process. It is
also envisaged to improve consistency between the MTEF and the GPRS and to
strengthen the linkages between resource allocation and policy priorities; (v) new cash
management and commitment control systems have been introduced to further strengthen
expenditure management; (vi) overall reporting on budget execution, including poverty-
related expenditures will be further strengthened to improve accountability and
transparency; and (vii) the ongoing reforms o f the external audit function are expected to
address the problem o f delayed or outstanding audit reports.

99.      The Government will conduct PERs each year during2003-05 and use the results
to informresource allocation to sectors inline with the GPRS. Aware o f existing capacity
constraints, the Govemment will also develop a comprehensive capacity building plan
that aims at addressing the relevant needs at all levels o f the public financial management
system.

100.     The comprehensive reform o f the public procurement system is another key
priority area. The enactment o f the new Procurement Bill - envisaged for 2003 - i s a
critical first step to establishing a credible and transparent legal framework that meets
international standards. DuringPRSC-2, the institutional framework specified inthe Bill
will be made operational.      This includes the establishment o f the Public Procurement
Boardthat will monitor the implementation o fthe reformprocess. The Boardwill publish
its first annual report in2004.

101.     Notwithstanding the fact that inthe broader sub-Saharan context, Ghana ranks 4th
in the 2001 and 2002 Transparency International Corruption Perception (behind
Mauritius, Botswana and Namibia), the Government attaches importance to further
progress in reducing fraud and combat corruption.              In 2003 two key watchdog
institutions, the Serious Fraud Office and the Commission o f Human Rights and
Administrative Justice will receive additional resources aimed at strengthening their
operational efficiency. Other activities that are planned for 2003 include the adoption o f

                                          - 33 -


the Freedom-of-Information Bill which would liberalize access to Government
information. To improve transparency and stimulate public debate the Government also
intends to disseminate budgetinformation ina simplifiedformat to a broader audience.

102.   To strengthen the capacity to monitor and evaluate the policy agenda, the
Government has prepared a comprehensive GPRS Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
adopted in March 2003. The plan includes submittingto Parliament progress reports on
GPRS implementation, the preparation o f which will entail: (i)       regular conduct o f
household surveys, participatory M&E activities and expenditure tracking; (ii)      poverty
and social impact analysis; and (iii) carrying out Strategic Environment Assessments to
review how sectoral policies impact on the environment andnatural resources.

103.   Expected Outcomes. By the end o f the three-year PRSC period, Ghana expects
to have:

    a  Increased decentralization o f administrative and fiscal authority to facilitate local
       development;

    a  Made progress towards a professional and motivated public service, through
       satisfactory implementation of a revised public sector reform program;

    a  Improved quality, transparency and accountability in the management o f public
       expenditure, by ensuring improved control systems, timely and reliable budget
       reporting and compliance with generally accepted public finance standards, in
       particular the newprocurement rules;

    a  Established a more effective budgetary process that translates policy priorities
       into budget and that allows for monitoring and evaluation o f policy
       implementation;

   a   Operationalized the GPRS M&E system that lays the ground for an evidence-
       based decision makingprocess.

   a   Strengthened parliamentary oversight o f Government activities, namely by
       submitting to the new GPRS Oversight Committee the GPRS Annual Progress
       Reports; and

   a   Progressed in the involvement o f civil society in the public policy making
      process, including by establishing citizen report cards inat least three sectors.

                                             - 34 -

                    6.     THE PROPOSED CREDITAND GRANT

A.      PRSC-1CREDITANDGRANTADMINISTRATION

104.    The technical arrangements and the steps to follow in respect to the IDA credit
and grant administration are described below. The proposed financial structure for the
PRSC-1 is as follows:

        PRSC-1:US$88 million equivalent (IDA credit)

                  U S 3 7 million equivalent (IDA grant)

Borrower andCreditAmount.

105.    The Borrower will be the Government o f Ghana. A single-tranche credit of SDR
63.9 million (US$88 million equivalent), would be made available upon credit
effectiveness, anticipated to be in July 2003. The operation closing date would be June
30, 2004. It is believed that the current GPRS cycle is likely to require support of two
additional single-tranche PRSCs.

106.    Grant Amount.        Additionally, there would be a grant of SDR 26.9 million
(US$37 million equivalent) that would be made available upon PRSC-1 effectiveness,
anticipated for July 2003.

107.    For FY03, Ghana was allocated grants amounting to SDR 51.4 million (US$ 69.3
million equivalent).    Part o f this allocation (SDR 24.5 million or US$ 32.3 million
equivalent) was applied to the Health Sector-Wide program (SWAP) and the remainder
(SDR 26.9 million or US$ 37 million equivalent) i s being applied to PRSC-1.          The
decision to apply the resources in this manner follows the guidelines on grants as per OP
8.45.

108.    There are strong strategic reasons for this choice.      Three projects are being
proposed for Ghana in FY03. The Health SWAP and the PRSC-1 have been selected
among them for blended financing on account of: (i)    the Government's particular interest
inusinggrant financing for the critical human development services supported by these
two operations; (ii)the greater ease in gaining popular acceptance o f the poverty
reduction activities supported by the SWAPandPRSC-1 when important components are
identified with grant financing; (iii)the higher development impacts when popular
support enables intended beneficiaries to actively accept and use the services provided;
and (iv) the greater integration o f these IDA-supported activities with those of other
development partners inthe MDBS who use grants exclusively intheir financing.

109.    The blend financing will strengthen the benefits expected from PRSC-1 in many
ways. First, the availability o f grant financing, which may be identified with components
dealing with unequal opportunities o f access to poverty reduction programs, for instance,
made it easier to build consensus within Government for these programs. Second, the
easier dialogue permitted the adoption of policy changes with strong foreseeable impact

                                             - 35 -


on the MDGs.         Examples include: (i)abolition o f fees for supervised deliveries
immediately in four deprivedregions, with extension to the rest o f the country in 2004
(this allows immediate access to these services by an estimated 172,000 expectant
mothers who would otherwise have done without these services); (ii)             initiation o f the
implementation of high impact rapid delivery programs for U5MR and MMR in two
deprived regions, with extension to the remaining deprived regions by 2005; (iii)              the
financing and implementationo f special programs of assistance and orientation for street
children in 2003, with extensions to other vulnerable groups in 2004-05; and (iv)
initiation o f the incentive scheme (including scholarships) to retain girls in primary
school indeprived districts. The Bank will work with the Government to monitor closely
the outcomes inthese critical areas and use the results to further cement national support
for the poverty reductionprogram.

110.    Disbursements. The operation          will follow IDA'S simplified disbursement
procedures for adjustment operations."       Inother words, the PRSC-1 proceeds will be
disbursed in compliance        with the stipulated single-tranche release conditions.
Disbursement will not be linked to any specific purchases, and no procurement
requirements are needed. Once the PRSC-1 i s approved by the Board, the Borrower will
open and maintain a dedicated deposit account in U.S. dollars with its Central Bank for
the borrower's use. Upon notification o f release o f the tranche, the Association will
deposit the proceeds o f the credit and the grant into the deposit account when requested
to do so by the Borrower. If, after deposit inthe deposit account with the Central Bank,
the proceeds o f the credit and grant or any parts thereof are used directly for ineligible
purposes (i.e., to finance goods or services on the standard negative list), as defined inthe
development financing agreement, the Association will require the Borrower to either (i)
retum that amount to the deposit account for use for eligible purposes or (b) refund the
amount directly to the Association.

111, Auditing. Although an audit o f the deposit account will not be required, the
Association reserves the right to seek an audit of the deposit account at any time. Inthat
event, through the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, the borrower would (a)
report the exact sum received into the deposit account; (ii)    indicate to IDA details o f the
consolidated fund account to which the Ghanaian cedis equivalent o f the PRSC-1
proceeds would have been credited; and (iii)submit a report on receipts and
disbursements for both the deposit account and the consolidated fund account to enable
IDA to review consistency o f the withdrawal with the development financing agreement
and achievement o fthe objectives o f the operation.

112.    Ownership and implementation. The Govemment has full ownership o f the
program to be supported by the proposed PRSC-1, given that: (i)          it is fully aligned with
the GPRS and draws heavily on the authorities' own policies andprograms section of the
GPRS; (ii) Government officials were actively involved in its preparation; and (iii)
            top
important reform measures were adopted as prior actions which were critical to finalize



  Operational Memorandum: Simplifying Disbursements under Structural and Sectoral Adjustment Loans,
February 8,1996.

                                          - 36 -


preparation o f the operation. The implementation o f reform program funded by this
operation will be coordinated by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. The
Minister o f Finance and Economic Planning relies on a broader Ministerial Economic
Management Team to leadpolicy changes.

113.    Monitoring. As indicated in para. 3, the PRSC-1 i s the Bank's participation in
the Multi-donor Budget Support (MDBS). During 2003, Bank staff will work with the
other development partners to implement the "Framework Memorandum" agreed for the
MDBS Program and seek convergence on reporting requirements, ideally for 2004
onwards (see paras 116-119). DuringPRSC-1, the following reporting requirements will
be followed to monitor progress in program implementation: (i)      quarterly reports on
macro-economic developments, to assess progress on the implementation o f the
framework agreed between the Government, the IMFand the Bank, with a lag o f no more
than eight weeks after end o f each quarter; (ii)
                                                quarterly reports on budget expenditures
with breakdown by Ministry, Department, and Agency with a lag of no more than 8
weeks after the end o f each quarter. These reports will also present the breakdown for
Items 1-4 o f the Ghanaian budget (personnel, administration, services, investment),
identify expenditure authorizations, payments vouchers issued, and payment vouchers
liquidated, and specify poverty-related and HIPC financed expenditures; (iii)report on
                                                                               a
progress on the PRSC Policy Matrix and triggers, to be submitted during September
2003; (iv) a report on progress on the PRSC Policy Matrix and triggers, later in2003 or
earlier 2004, to be made available taking into consideration the preparation o f a possible
PRSC-2. Inaddition, the achievement o f PRSC targets will be assessed inthe context o f
the GPRS annual review that will document implementation and outcomes o f its reforms.

114.    Selected key measures already implemented in the context of PRSC-1. The
Government o f Ghana has already carried out the following actions to implement its
reform agenda. Those actions identifiedinbold were triggers for PRSC-1.

    Topromotegrowth, incomes, and employment:

      0   as part of more improved economic pricing of energy, electricity tariffs
          were raised by a combined total of 72 percent in late 2002 and early 2003
          and an automatic tariff adjustment mechanism was adopted. Retail
          petroleum prices were brought to import parity levels in January 2003
          and an automatic petroleum price adjustment formula was made effective
          in May 2003. These measures were implementedwith a view to making
          the energy sector viable and reduce its dependence on budget subsidies,
          while a life-line for the protection of the poor is assured through cross-
          subsidization;

      0   decision on power sector reform to restructure VRA, including the
          separation of transmission from generation, and confirmation of role of
          private sector on thermal generation; and

      0   a survey of regulatory and administrative costs on business was
          undertaken towards preparing an action plan for reducing transaction
          costs on business.

                                            - 37 -



     Toenable the disadvantaged to access basic educational and health services:

           mapping for targeting assistance to schools was completed for 5 deprived
           districts ;
           implementation of national policy of Community-based Health Planning
           Services was launched; and
           fee exemption policy for maternal deliveries has been implementedin four
           underserved regions (Northern, Upper East, Upper West and Central).

    Toimprove governance andpublic expenditure management:

           a Local Government Service Billwas submitted to Parliament towards creating
           the legal framework for devolving authority to local communities;
           an independent review o f all relevant public sector programhas been launched
           that aims at aligning these reforms with the strategic priorities o fthe GPRS;
           a comprehensive census o f public sector employees has been initiated as a
           critical first step to improve the control o f the wage bill, update the payroll
           system and develop a medium-term pay and employment policy;
           a Financial Administration Bill was submitted to Parliament, to regulate
           financial management of the public sector and ensuring effective and efficient
           management o f state revenue, expenditure, assets, liabilities and resources o f
           the government;
           a Central Internal Audit Agency Bill was approved by Cabinet, to
           improve independence of the audit function and define standards of
           practice in internal audit;
           a Procurement Bill was submitted to Parliament, to provide the legal
           framework       for   ensuring that     public    resources     finance   quality
           expenditures during purchases; and
           a computerized BPEMS was made operational in M o F and CAGD to
           provide the technical elements required for improving efficiency in the
           management of public expenditures.

115.     Measures for PRSCs 2 and 3. As indicated above, the Bank, the DPs and the
Government o f Ghana have agreed to work towards a common policy framework in
2004, in time for PRSC-2.        In addition, it is expected that the ESW pieces to be
concluded in FY03 would provide input into the dialogue inthe remainder o f 2003. In
view o fthe work with the DPs towards convergence in2004 and the expected availability
o f the results o f ongoing analytical work, it has been judged prudent to use reasonably
broad formulations o fmeasures for PRSC-2, including the triggers that follow below.

                                           - 38 -


 116.   PRSC-2 Triggers. The decision as to whether IDA will proceed with the PRSC-
2 will be defined by progress satisfactory to IDA in the following areas (and shown in
bold inthe PRSC policymatrix):

     Topromote growth, incomes, and employment:

       0   launch power sector reform, including the implementation of the first year
           of the public-private partnership plan;

       0   complete automation (GCMWGCNET) of customs procedures to speed up
           clearance times at Takoradi and Tema ports, where 60 percent of the
           country's imports pass through; and

       0   implement 2003 tranche of time-bound action plan to remove key
           regulatory and administrative barriers with a view to improve the
           investmentclimate.

    To enable the disadvantaged to access basic educational and health services,

       0   establish incentive schemes, including scholarships, to enable girls to
           complete primary school in deprived districts;

       0   extend nationwide fee exemption policy on maternal deliveries; and

       0   adopt new health recurrent expenditure allocation formula to protect
           most deprived areas.

    To improve governance andpublic expenditure management:

       0   begin implementation of the Procurement Bill and make operational
           Public Procurement Institutions (Public Procurement Board, Secretariat,
           EntityTender Committees, andTenderReviewBoards);

       0   Cabinet issues policy statement on public sector reform with orientations
           for a comprehensive public sector reform, including public sector pay and
           employment issues; and

       0   expand BPEMS to cover Accra sites of the Ministries of Education,
           Health, Roads and Highways.



B.      ALIGNMENT WITHTHEIMF

117.    The PRSC has been prepared inparallel and closely coordinatedwith the PRGF,
following the agreed institutional division o f labor with the IMF taking the lead on
macro-economic sector issues while the Bank takes the lead on structural and social
issues. Ina number o f areas where the mandates o f the two institutions overlap, the work
i s being coordinated to ensure that consistent advice i s provided to the authorities. Inthis
context, the Fund and the Bank recently undertook the review with the authorities of the
Expenditure Accountability Assessment Plan (AAP).Future IMF Article IV and PRGF

                                            - 39 -

reviews will provide an important input into the assessment o f the macro-economic
 situation o f the Bank. Similarly, it i s expected that the Fund will rely on the Bank's
 assessment o f structural and social reforms.

c.      ALIGNMENTWITHOTHERDONORS'              SUPPORT

 118.    There have been extensive consultations among the Government and development
partners (Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, the United
Kingdom, the United States, the African Development Bank, the European Union, the
Nordic Development Fund and the UN system) to support Ghana's poverty reduction
agenda. Under the mini Consultative Group (CG) meetings, progress has been made
towards improving policy dialogue with the Government.              In recent years, donor
coordination has been strengthened in the health sector, with DPs having joined to
support GoG's program, and several o f them pooling their contributions in a joint
(SWAP) support program to the health budget. Steps are also being taken to prepare a
programmatic approach to education support. Support to the roads sector i s also well
coordinated.

119.    InMarch2003, agreement was reached onthe principles o fa common framework
for multi-donor support (MDBS) between the Government o f Ghana and participating
DPs (currently include the African Development Bank, Canada, Denmark, European
Union, Germany, The Netherlands, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and the World Bank).
A copy o f the draft Framework Memorandum for the MDBS is attached as Annex 3.
Other DPs have indicated that they intend to align their support with the process to the
extent possible, even if they will not be full participants. Under the MDBS framework,
the following are the main goals: (i)   support to the implementation o f GPRS through the
GoG's budget ensuring consistency in the policy dialogue; (ii)     move towards a common
progress assessment framework; (iii)     reduction o f transactions cost; (iv) enhancing the
predictability o f resource flows; and (v) joint reviews between the Government and
interested development partners.

120.    Given procedural and timing requirement differences, for the calendar year 2003,
some Bilateral DPs and the EU have decided to focus on 5 reform areas o f the GPRS.
These areas are: public finance, budget process, public sector reforrn, governance, and
decentralization Against this background, these Bilaterals and the EU will soon sign an
arrangement (see draft dated April 10 in Annex 4) which supplements the rules agreed in
the context o f the Framework Agreement. Inthe context o f this agreement, bilateral DPs
and the EU will focus on the five reform areas noted above, which were considered
critical for the successful and efficient implementation o f the GPRS. For these areas, a
policy matrix has been agreed and will be used as the basis o f dialogue between the
Government and participating DPs. A subset of the policy matrix will be defined as
triggers.   These DPs expect to disburse their assistance in two tranches. First, a
disbursement will take place linked to the approval o f a PRGF, and a second
disbursement is termed "perfonnance payment". Attainment of the triggers will
determine the performance payment.

                                           - 40 -

121.    In view of the developments described above, during 2003, there will be two
policy matrices (PRSC and the Bilateral DPs and EU). While the PRSC policy matrix
covers all GPRS components, the Bilateral DPs and EUpolicy matrix focuses only on the
five areas referred to in the previous paragraphs. A detailed analysis o f both matrices
shows that all measures of the DPs and EUmatrix inthe areas o f public expenditure and
financial management, and public sector reform are part o f the PRSC policy matrix. In
terms o f local government service delivery and governance, the overlap i s at about 50
percent. Annex 4 shows that 11 out o f the 12 conditions for disbursement o f the
"performance payment" by the bilaterals and the EU overlap with the PRSC-1 matrix.
All parties involved have agreed that 2003 will allow to buildthe experience to move
towards convergence in the use o f the common framework for the MDGs during 2004.
During PRSC-1 appraisal, consultations took place with the bilateral DPs and the EU,
who endorsed the PRSC policy matrix. Inthese consultations, it was agreed that after
PRSC-1 is considered by the Bank's Boardit will be urgent to work towards agreeing on
a common matrix for progress assessment framework andharmonization o f reporting and
reviewing procedures. Inthe meantime, duringthe reviews planned for 2003, like it was
done for the PRSC appraisal, coordination will continue to facilitate movement o f the
parties inthe discussions with the Government

122.    The commitment o f the parties involved in the MDBS is to develop a common
progress assessment framework for all participating DPs. The dialogue between GOG
and DPs over the content o f the matrices in the PRSC-1 and that for other DPs should
therefore be pursued in the coming months. Flexibility in the design of the PRSC-2
matrix is therefore seen as an important feature inthe design o f the PRSC.

D.      ANALYTIC UNDERPINNINGSOFTHE PRSC

123.    The PRSC is built on the analytical work and dialogue that assisted the
development of the GPRS. Additional analytical work, which supports the PRSC with
respect to policies and programs relating to fiduciary and environmental safeguards, has
been carried out.

124.    In the area of poverty, analytical work was carried out jointly with the
Government, based on the household expenditure survey 1998/99 (GLSS4) to provide
input for poverty assessments prepared in 2000/01 and used first for the I-GPRS and,
later, the full GPRS.     Additional knowledge came from independent work by the
authorities, which was published in October 2000 in a comprehensive report entitled
"Poverty Trends inthe 1990s", using data from the 1991/92 and 1998/99 GLSSs. A new
Poverty Note is under preparation by Bank staff (completion expected June 2003), which
will update knowledge in this area and, in particular, attempt to clarify what effect the
policy and terms o f terms shocks o f 1999-2000 may have had on the poverty situation.
The findings o f the FY03 Poverty Note would be used during the preparation o f PRSC-2
for adjustments to the poverty effort judged as appropriate.

125.    Inthe area of growth, poverty and public policy, two recent integrative reports
prepared by Bank staff provided key inputs for the formulation o f the PRSC. These are
CEMs entitled "Ghana - Growth, Private Sector, and Poverty Reduction", FY96, and

                                                -41 -


 "Ghana    -  International Competitiveness, Opportunities and challenges Facing Non-
 Traditional Exports", FYO1. The first dealt primarily with policies to make growth pro-
 poor and deliver human development services with greater poverty impact. The second
 focused on promoting growth by enhancing international competitiveness and facilitating
 the development o f non-traditional exports. A new C E M on Growth, Poverty and Public
 Sector Management (completion expected June 2003) i s under way. Preliminary findings
 o f the field work carried out in March 2003, confirmed the appropriateness o f the focus
 on reducing the weight o f the public sector on the economy as part o f the growth
 agenda12. Additional knowledge from the final report will be built into the design o f
 PRSCs 2 and 3. Inthe area o f micro-finance, the December 2002 Bank report "Rural and
Micro Finance Regulation in Ghana: Implications for Development and Performance o f
the Industry", informed o f the PRSC-1 approach to support the GPRS goal o f
 strengthening development financing.

 126.    Inthe area ofpublic expenditure analysis, the Government has carried out PERs
 annually since 1997, with the results used to inform budgetary choices in the following
year. In parallel, analysis o f public sector reform and public expenditure management
 and policies have been carried out under the ongoing IDA-assisted PUFMARP and
PSMP projects funded several reviews and diagnostics as the basis for the design o f
reforms. In addition, and in coordination with bilateral and multilateral partners such as
UK-DFID,CIDA Canada, andthe European Union, complementarywork was carried out
on medium term public expenditure planning and management, budget management risk
analysis, auditing and fiscal decentralization, which permitted the development o f the
MTEF and a set o f recommendations in different PEM areast3. In FY02, a Bank-
sponsored PER looked into the particular issue o f aggregate resource constraint and
macroeconomic stability, in order to complement the analysis o f institutional issues
carried out in the context o f public sector reform projects and allocative concerns which
were the focus o f national analysis. A new comprehensive PER is being launched in
FY03, with the results expected inearly FY04, to underpin the design o f PRSC-2.

 127.    On fiduciary concerns, a CFAA was prepared in 2001 and its recommendations
were used to reinforce work supported by the Budget Preparation and Expenditure
Management System (BPEMS),                 Public Finance Management Reform Program
(PUFMARP) and the related work under the AAP/HIPC monitoring. As a result o fthese,
budget execution andreporting is being improvedwith recent progress summarized inthe
HPC-AAP status report (Annex 5) agreed between the Bank and the IMF and the
Government. To take stock o f progress achieved and to agree on a set o f priority actions
to further strengthen Ghana's fiduciary management, a new CFAA will be completed in
June 2003.      In the meantime, the PRSC in addition to the recommendations of the



l2 Using the Sacks and Wamer (1997) framework and the O'Connel-Ndulu specification, the team
concludes that "international growth experience delivers a profound message to Ghana-persistent fiscal
expansion and high level o f government spending are clearly harming long term growth and poverty
reduction".
l3Donor-funded reports on "Risk analysis" and "Review, Reporting and Assessment Mechanisms" were
elaborated in the last 6 months in the context of the MDBS, moving a wealth o f information on PEM
issues.

                                           - 42 -

previous one, has drawn on the mission report o f the FY03 CFAA inidentifying priority
actions to reduce fiduciary risks (Annex 6).

128.   Interms ofCPAR, Ghanafigures inthe range of countries considered suitable for
a PRSC. The last CPAR was carried out in 1996 and recommended that comprehensive
procurement reforms be undertaken. These have been developed in the context of the
Bank-financed PUFMARP. A new Public Procurement Bill has recently been submitted
to the Parliament and is expected to be enacted in 2003. With a view to building on
recent progress and agreeing on a road map to further improve public procurement
management, a CPAR is currently underway which is planned to be completed by end
May 2003.      However, building on the March 2003 CPAR mission findings and
recommendations (Annex 7), the PRSC's policy matrix has already identified prior
actions and triggers considered critical to further strengthen Ghana's procurement
practices.

                            Table 7: Analytic Underpinnings




    CEMIDPR                  19951200112003      CEM FY03 will be ready inJune 2003.

    PER                      1999/2000           To be carried out annually, starting inFY04.

    CFAA                     200112003           CFAA will be finalized inJune 2003. PRSCbuilds
                                                 on CFAA 2001recommendations and also includes
                                                 key actions identified inthe context ofthe FY03
                                                 CFAA preparation.

    CPAR                     2003                A CPAR is currently under preparation andwill be
                                                 finalized inJune 2003. Key recommendations have
                                                 already been identified and included inthe PRSC
                                                 policy matrix.




129.   A final reference worth highlighting is that o f a Monitoring and Evaluation
System that was developed by the Government to ensure the M&E of the GPRS. The
system was designed, following extensive consultations with stakeholders and identifies
52 indicators that will support the evaluation o f results as the implementation of the
GPRS proceeds, and could well be the basis for monitoring all poverty-related
development activities inthe near fiture.

E.     ENVIRONMENTAL      ASPECTS

130.   The proposed operation has been rated a structural adjustment credit govemed
under Operational Directive 8.60, and does not require an environmental assessment
rating.

                                             - 43 -

131.    The Government o f Ghana is aware o f the importance for poverty reduction to
meet the Millenium Development Goals (MDGs) o f ensuring                       environmental
sustainability. The cross-sectoral nature o f the environment and its direct and indirect
linkages to economic growth and poverty reduction agenda, has been taken into account
in the preparation of the GPRS. Ghana has a robust environmental institutional
framework and considerable capacities to set, regulate and enforce environmental
management standards. The main frameworks are the 1991 National Environmental
Policy and the 1992 National Environmental Action Plan. With the transformation o f the
former Environmental Protection Council (EPC) into an Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA), in 1994, and the creation o f a Ministryo f Environment, GoG showed its
commitment to providing support for appropriate environmental management.

132.    Over the years, GoG and donors have provided support for strengthening the
capacities at the EPA to engage in setting environmental standards and tracking
compliance o f social and environmental safeguards. InGhana, the EPA has since the late
1980s adopted environmental impact assessment as a management tool to screen
undertakings likely to pose adverse impact on the environment. Environmental screening
and assessment became legal in 1999 with the promulgation o f the Environmental
Assessment Regulations, L.I. 1652. In Ghana, Environmental Impact Assessment is
recognized and applied to most development projects. In this regard, procedures have
been established to screen and evaluate all development projects and programs that have
the potential to give rise to significant social and environmental impacts. Under the
country's Environmental Assessment Regulations o f (L.I.1652), an EL4i s mandatory for
seventeen types o f activities classified as critical. These include mining, petroleum and
gas field, development, construction o f dams, harbors and roads, logging and disposal.
The Government is aware o f the importance to effectively implement the environmental
laws and regulations.

133.    The Government o f Ghana recognizes the need to better comprehend the potential
and likely risks, impact and opportunities of the GPRS on the social and physical
environments so as to develop corresponding preventive and mitigationhemediation
plans. It has consequently earned out a pilot Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA)
exercise in February 2003. The SEA discussions were focused on review and appraisal
o f sectoral policies (e.g., land, forestry, water, housing, health, and transport), using
sustainability criteria related to three types o f effects: economic growth, environment and
natural resources, and social and cultural conditions.         The results o f the pilot SEA
exercise, together with an outline o f the next steps (possible preparation o f full SEA) will
soon be considered by the Government.

F.      POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT ANALYSIS

134.    In developing policy measures, the GOG and its development partners have
agreed on a program to ensure that over time, sufficient analysis o fthe poverty and social
impact of policies (PSIA) i s completed, and feeds into the discussion o f policies for each
subsequent round o f PRSCs. Most o f the policy reforms have benefited from some prior
or ongoing analysis, though the depth o f the analysis on distributional issues and the
degree o fpublic debate has varied.

                                            - 44 -


 135.   Some o f the existing impact analysis work on key policy issues includes a social
impact assessment o f the "right-sizing" o f the civil service, or national institutional
renewal process, a socioeconomic study o f those tertiary education students who may be
eligible for scholarships, a social impact assessment o f land tenure, and a rapid analysis
o fthe impact o f value added tax ando fpetroleum price increases. This existingwork has
been reviewed and i s summarized inAnnex 8.

 136.   The process of identifyingareas for PSIA in a participatory manner has been led
bythe GOG. With support o fDFID, a workshop took placeinFebruary, 2003, to consult
a large number o f government and civil society organizations on priorities for PSIA.
Subsequently, the GOG identified 16 potential policy issues that would benefit from
distributional impact analysis. Further consultations were held with representatives o f
numerous sectoral ministries to discuss the role o f PSIA within their sector, and
specifically how such work would feed into their policy agenda.

137.    Itis recognizedthat it will take some time to cover allpolicy issues with adequate
PSIA and debate and involvement o f stakeholders.            In order to narrow down to a
reasonable number PSIAs that could be completed prior to PRSC-2, ideally before end
December 2003, a ranking took place according to the following criteria:

            Potentially large expected size and direction o f impacts;
        a   Prominence o f issue inthe GPRS policy agenda andPRSC;
        a   Timingand urgency o fpolicy or reform;
        a   Level o f national debate surroundingthe reform; and
            Lack o f existing analysis.

138.    Based on these criteria, four key reform issues emerged: (i)       changes to the tariff
structure inthe energy (petroleum and electricity) sectors and how the overall structure o f
the sector affects quality and access o f services to the poor; (ii)     proposed changes in
health care such as a proposal to provide exemptions for maternal delivery; (iii)
substantial institutional changes with decentralization which may affect access to or
quality o f services or resources; and (iv) analysis o f the policies to promote growth inthe
agricultural sector and the degree to which these could benefit smallholders.             It is
intendedthat once this set of PSIAs has been completed, a second roundwill take place
to identify the next most important policy areas requiring further analytical work.

139.    Given the importance to ensure that the PSIA work remains operationally
focused, with a high likelihood o f feeding into policy, in several cases the PSIA will be
anchored within the sectoral ministry, but have a reviewing committee for terms o f
reference, methodology, draft review and comment. The reviewing committee includes
stakeholders within the sector, development partners, the National Development Planning
Commission (currently responsible for the GPRS andmonitoring and evaluation) and the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. For those PSIAs being financed by other
donors, Bank sectoral staff would provide technical guidance and comments on terms of
reference and draft reports.     Other donors and the National Development Planning

                                                 - 45 -

 Commission also plan to carry out other PSIAs not directly related with the program
 supported by the PRSC. For all PSIAs, workshops and fora for policy debate and
 dissemination form an integral part o f the proposed process. More detail on the planned
PSIAs is presentedbelow andinAnnex 9.

Energy sector strategy and the poor

 140.     As referenced above, one o f the most pressing priorities for further analysis i s the
cost recovery measures being taken in the energy sector.                      These measures were
implemented to reduce existing GOG debt or significant budget subsidies, and to
contribute to financial sustainability o f the sector.                 These tariff changes were
accompanied by the introduction o f a cross-subsidy (petroleum) and a lifeline tariff
(electricity) to protect the poor.          While increasing fuel prices by 95 percent, the
authorities considered the cross subsidy between kerosene and LPG on the one hand
(both consumed disproportionately by the poor), andpremiumwhich i s consumed largely
by the relatively well to do inAccra. Additionally, in anticipation o f the possible impact
o f cost recovery pricing for utility services, subsidies for lifeline water and electricity
customers were made effective, amounting to about $50 billion inthe 2003 budget. To
the extent that both cost recovery measures result in important budget savings and make
room for added social and poverty-related spending and/or delivery of services that
previously were unavailable to the poor, their impact on the poor might be further
ameliorated. Distributional analysis o f whether such measures are well targeted, how
they are being implemented, and what sort o f indirect effects such policies would have,
such as on the ability to hrther expand access to the system, will be carried out prior to
PRSC-2 given the large number o f people these policies may affect.14 This work, which
will be supported bythe World Bank, will be combined with FY04 Economic and Sector
work on the energy sector planned which i s planned to include an overall assessment of
the sector, an analysis o f its structure, andthe potential role o fprivatization.

Changes to health care and the poor

141.      Inthe context ofthe program supported byPRSC, the Governmenthas decidedto
introduce an exemption policy for matemal deliveries. Potential issues include how to
ensure the most effective targeting, how different stakeholders might react, and what sort
o f implementation issues might be encountered. However, the specific scope o f PSIA
work on changes in the health sector policy will be agreed upon with a broad number o f
sectoral stakeholders during a forthcoming MOH/Development Partners Summit Meeting
to take place in June 2003. This PSIA would be carried out in the context o f the health
sector SWAp.

Economic transformation policy for the agricultural sector and the smallholder/
subsistence farmer


14In2001anassessmento fthe lifeline tariff for electricity was carriedout, butneedsto bebroadenedwith
further informationonincome, andonthose not yet connected to the system. Giventhe scope ofthe PSIA
work inthe energy sector, it may require phasingthe work. Probably, an initial phase could be completed
byNovember, 2003, and a subsequentphasebyMarch, 2003.

                                            - 46 -


142.    Other reforms supported by the PRSC, that met the criteria above, include the
choice o f policies within the rural sector and the need to assess the extent to which they
are salient interms o f alleviating poverty and reducing inequityfor small-holder farmers.
DFID plans to finance such analysis to be managed by the National Development
Planning Commission and completed before end 2003. This study should complement
planned Bank Economic and Sector work on the constraints and opportunities for
expanding growth in the rural sector, with a focus on factors that could spur high-value
growth (agro-processing for non-tradable agricultural goods, expanding export of non-
traditional agricultural products, supporting the development o f ago-business
marketing). Bank sector staff will review terms o f reference and provide comments on
draft and interim reports.

Pro-poordecentralization

143.    G T Z K f W has been one o f the active donors in supporting the GOGs
decentralization initiatives. It plans to support the completion o f a PSIA on how the
decentralizationprocess i s likely to affect the poor. The terms o f reference for this work
is currently in being drafted and i s expected to be discussed among stakeholders, with a
view to be completed by endJune, 2003. The final report and dissemination is expected
byNovember, 2003.

G.      BENEFITSAND RISKS

144.    Benefits. The benefits to be expected from the proposedPRSC-1 maybe viewed
in three ways. The main and ultimate benefit is the human progress expected from the
growthand service delivery outcomes o fthe implementationo fthe program supported by
the operation. To the extent that the growth objectives become attainable, especially in
the rural sector, including the generation o f higher levels agricultural non-traditional
exports, improved employment and income prospects become a reality for a large number
o f Ghanaians. Similarly, to the extent that the expansion o f basic health and education
services become possible, the PRSC-1 would contribute to the attainment o f the Human
Development Goals o f the GPRS. This includes, in particular, the delivery of such
services in the currently deprived areas o f the Northem, Upper East, Upper West and
Central regions o f the country. Inaddition, there are two intermediate benefits. The first
derives from its contribution to closing the extemal financing gap, thereby, helping
maintain macroeconomic stability, which is one o f the key objectives sought by the
Ghanaian authorities as they implement the GPRS. With adequate external funding, the
pressures on the cedi should lessen and, along with it, the pressure on prices from
continuing depreciation of the currency. The second relates to its generation of funds to
help implement the budget, thereby enablingthe Government to execute the policies and
programs underpinning the budget. This is important for the funding o f development
support services and social expenditures.

145.    Risks. There are four risks to the success o f the program: (i) reforms may
                                                                          the
not be sustained owing to weakening commitment as elections approach or in response
social opposition to the program; (ii)   the macro-financial context may deteriorate and

                                             - 47 -

 make program implementation difficult as a result o f exogenous shocks such as adverse
 terms o f trade or increasing regional instability; (iii) fiduciary weaknesses may limit
 impact; and (iv) capacity limitations may lead to only partial implementation.

 146.    The first risk is that the program may not be sustained arises from the possibility
                                    -  -
 that the government's commitment to the reforms may weaken as the 2004 elections
 approach, or that there would be social opposition. This risk is mitigated by two factors
 inthe design of the program. There is a good plan of continuing use of communication
 and dialogue to strengthen support for the program. This has shown its efficacy already -
the dialogue and communication that preceded the many difficult tax and tariff measures
taken in late 2002 and early 2003 seemed an important factor in gaining              them
acceptance. The recent by-election victories by the Government inthe months following
those measures corroborate this view. Further, the inclusion o f poverty reduction
measures with tangible and early impact (e.g. fee-free access o f poor mothers to delivery
services) would help increase the social acceptability o f the program.

 147.    A second risk is that exogenous shocks such as unfavorable terms o f trade
(widening the external financing gap) or increasingregional instability (creating the need
for unforeseen security expenditures) could disrupt the macro-financial context of the
program. The strong relation with the MDBS development partners helps mitigate the
risk o f such events causing the program to fail. The partners have pledgedtheir support
inthe form ofpredictable and sufficient multi-year financing, as long as the program is
implemented with commitment.            They stand ready to adjust the timing o f their
disbursements to provide adequate financing as long as the program remains sound.

 148.    A third risk relates to residual fiduciary weaknesses. Although Ghana has made
strides in the area o f probity in public resource management (in the broader sphere o f
corruption, Ghana placed 4th in both the 2001 and 2002 Transparency International
ranking of sub-Saharan African countries, behind Mauritius, Botswana, and Namibia),
there are residual risks of the misapplication o f public finds.      This risk is steadily
decreasing. The progress made on budget management inthe second half o f 2002 (better
commitment control, prompt reconciliation o f budgetary and banking system accounts,
and frequent reporting) have diminishedthe risks inthis area. The roll-out o f the BPEMS
inthe keyministries in2003 reduces these risks further. This riskis further mitigatedby
the elevation to national attention o f fiscal transparency communications, budget account
disclosures, and Parliamentary oversight of resource use and development results - all as
part andparcelo fthe GPRS process.

149.    A fourth risk is that implementation capacity may fall short o fthe requirements o f
the program. The Bank, the IMF, and other MDBS partners are helping reduce this risk.
This i s being done by supportingthe program as conceived by the authorities, including
its gearing (allowing phasing in o f complex reforms). The Bank continues to provide
advice on structural reforms with a strong AAA program. The IMF continues to offer
macroeconomic management advice (including fiscal) via the services o f a resident
Technical Advisor. In addition, donor support under the MDBS would make critical
technical assistance available periodically to deal with unforeseen difficulties.

 Incaseof reply the                                                     MINISTRY OF FINANCE 4%
 number and date of this
 letter shouldbeauoted                                                   ECONOMIC PLANNING
                                                                            P. 0. BOX MB 40
Our Re$ No.                                                                      ACCRA
YourRe$
Tel                                   REPUBLICOF GHANA
                                                                             May29,2003




                                                  GHANA

                  POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT AND GRANT (PRSC-1)


             Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
             President
             The World Bank

                            LElTEROF DEVELOPMENT POLICY (LDP)

             Dear Mr. Wolfensohn

             1. Iam writing to request, on behalf of the Government of Ghana, the first
                  Poverty Reduction Support Credit and Grant (PRSC-1) from the International
                  Development Association (IDA) to        support the programmes and policy
                  measures outlined in our Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS). This
                  letter sets out the actions and activities that the Government will undertake
                  over the medium term 2003-2005 to implement its development agenda. I
                  am attaching a policy matrix we have prepared in collaborationwith the Bank
                  team and other development partners that sets out the contents of this letter
                  in a summary.

             2. As you are aware, the present Government of Ghana has since coming into
                  office in January 2001 engaged in a broad programme of reform with the
                  support of the Bank, the Fund, and Bilateral development partners. In his
                 State of the Nation Address on Thursday February 13, 2003, the President
                  reiterated his commitment to the broad policy framework, shared his vision
                 of how to promote growth and reduce poverty while strengthening the
                  people's resolve for the rule of law and good governance based on
                 democratic principles.

                                                                       Schedule 1
                                                                      Page 2 o f 28

3. The GPRS, recently approved and recognized by the Boards of the IMF and
   the World Bank, provides a comprehensive approach to poverty reduction
   and long-term growth. The dimensions of poverty in Ghana in the 1990s and
   the lessons of economic reform since the mid 1980's form the basis of the
   GPRS and the programme of reform which Ipresent in this letter.

4. Prepared through an extensive consultative process with civil society and
   other stakeholders, the GPRS identifies five priority areas for sustained
   growth    and accelerated poverty         reduction;  namely,   (i) ensuring
   macroeconomic stability, (ii) enhancing production and employment, (iii)
   enhancing human resource development, (iv) developing special programmes
   for the vulnerable and excluded, and (v) improving governance. These five
   thematic areas form the thrust of the proposed reform programme for which
   we are requesting support for the Poverty Reduction Support Credit and
   Grant. Ghana has already begun the implementation of the GPRS and made
   modest gains, especially in the areas of delivery of basic social services
   including primary education, primary health care, water and sanitation.

5. In developing the reform programme, Government has been guided by the
   disturbing fact that although Ghana experienced a growth rate averaging 4
   percent throughout the 1990s, the pattern of growth has been fragile and
   urban centered. Moreover, the source of growth and the nature of economic
   policies have not transformed economic performance or led to a reduction in
   poverty, especially among farmers who constitute the bulk of the rural
   population. Government recognizes that there is the need for new directions.
   It has, therefore, adopted a programme of reform aimed at improving its
   efficiency in accelerating growth and poverty reduction, especially in the
   delivery of public services to those most in need - the rural population, those
   in the deprived districts, the vulnerable and the excluded. To this end the
   reform programme rests on three pillars:

          a. PromotingGrowth, Incomes and Employment
          b. Improving Service Delivery for Human Development
          c. Improving Governance and Public Sector Management

6. Government believes that these are the three areas in which PRSC support
   would reinforce existing programmes and projects with the elements of
   opportunity and empowerment neededto reach our development goals.

7. The first pillar recognizes that there can be no meaningful poverty reduction
   without a strong economic foundation and sustained growth. It brings
   together the first two thematic areas of the GPRS- ensuring sound
   macroeconomic management, nurturing growth through private sector
   development, and expanding employment opportunities and income

                                                                         Schedule 1
                                                                       Page 3 of 28

    generating activities for the poor. Government intends to create the
    conditions necessary for more rapid growth, especially in the agricultural
    sector given its major and traditional role in the performance of the
    economy. Government also intends to build on the achievement of recent
    years in terms of macroeconomic stabilization, reducing budget deficits,
    making domestic revenue mobilization more efficient and adopting
    instrumentsthat facilitate the growth of the private sector.

8. The second pillar brings together the GPRS themes of enhancing human
    resource development, and developing programmes for the vulnerable and
    excluded in society. We intend to focus our efforts on the issues of access,
    equity, and how to efficiently finance delivery of health, education and social
    services.

9. The third pillar recognizes that good governance is the key factor in making
    the development process sustainable. It integrates measures to build a
    democratic, inclusive and decentralized state, improve the performance of
    the public sector, strengthen public expenditure management, and
    strengthen the capacity to monitor and evaluate the policy agenda.

10.The Government believes that the proposed operation from the Bank
    together with direct budgetary support from our bilateral development
    partners would make it possible to implement measures aimed at achieving
    the objectives outlined above, and lay the foundation for Ghana to become a
    middle-income country in the shortest possibletime.

11.The remainder of the letter is organized as follows. It begins with a brief
    background and the range of policy challenges that we face. It briefly
    identifies the GPRS priority areas as the road map for the reform programme.
    It then describes the medium-term (2003-2005) reform programme which
    focuses on the three overarching pillars. Finally, it describes the monitoring
    and evaluation strategy.

                 1.BACKGROUNDAND POLICYCHALLENGES

12, Since 2001, the Government has aimed at formulating and implementing
    policies that will help to bring about a sound macroeconomic environment
    necessary to promote growth and poverty reduction. In the 2002 budget,
   Government sought to consolidate the modest gains achieved in 2001,
   especially in reducing inflation and in strengthening stability in the core
    macro indicators. Our goal was to mobilize potential resources (especially
   domestic tax revenue) more intensively so we can enlarge our development
   initiatives. Government also sought to improve public expenditure
   management; allocate resources (including HIPC relief) toward priority areas

                                                                        Schedule 1
                                                                       Page 4 of 28

    identified in the GPRS; move towards full cost recovery for utilities; reduce
   the burden of domestic debt on public finances; and enhance agricultural
    productivity and rural incomes.

13. As you are aware, we made notable progress in stabilizing the economy not
    least by curtailing inflationary expectations, reducing fears of exchange rate
    risk and bringing back the confidence of investors, both domestic and
    foreign. We also met several challenges; including (i) higher-than-expected
    expenditures on wages and salaries; (ii) accelerated payments of arrears
    relating to both non-statutory and statutory payments; (iii) higher-than-
    anticipated subsidies to utility companies; and (iv) substantial shortfalls in
   expected foreign inflows. The net effect was a higher than expected
    government domestic borrowing. All these threatened to underminethe goal
   to lay the foundation for accelerated growth and poverty reduction.

14.The experience of the Government during the fiscal years 2001 and 2002 is
   that the setbacks in achieving economic policy objectives are but symptoms
   of larger problems that call for a concerted reform agenda. And to be
    successful, this agenda must be comprehensive and focus on major
    macroeconomic, structural, and institutional measures that interact to
    undermine growth and impede poverty alleviation efforts. In particular, the
    agenda must be deliberate in the design and delivery of targeted poverty
    alleviation measures. It must also address the weaknesses in budget
    implementation, public financial management, the domestic investment
    climate, the energy sector, the role of the public sector, and our vulnerability
    to external trade shocks.

15. It is in light of these that Government intends to pursue a reform programme
   that aims at specific structural and institutional measures and reforms in the
   three areas which constitute the overarching pillars. Government is aware
   that without these concerted measures with monitorable targets, attaining
   sound macroeconomic performance may be difficult, and even if attained, it
    may not translate into any significant improvement in living conditions if
    initial structures such as access to markets and the availability of social
   amenities are unequal.

16. It is our expectation that our development partners, through the Multi-Donor
    Budgetary Support (MDBS) group, will also support the reform programme
   described in this letter. The MDBS arrangement aims at supporting GPRS
    implementation through direct budgetary contribution. At the March 24, 2003
    Mini-CG meeting, development partners and the Government endorsed the
    Framework Memorandum (FM) that will guide the MDBS arrangement.

                                                                       Schedule 1
                                                                      Page 5 of 28
17.The Government believes that the MDBS mechanism represents a major
    improvement in development partnership as far as aid policy and
    coordination are concerned. Among other things, we have sought in the FM
    for the MDBS partners to harmonize their procedures, performance
    assessment, disbursement mechanisms, planning and evaluation missions
    around the Government of Ghana budgetary cycle. In 2004, it is expected
    that we will match the policy matrix agreed with the Bilateral DPs and the
    European Union with the policy matrix that supports the PRSC.

          2. THE GHANA POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY (GPRS)

2.1 A Vision for Development

18.The Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS),          recently approved and
    recognized by the Boards of the Bank and IMF, represents our medium-term
    vision for development. It's preparation was preceded by two other national
    development strategies; namely, the Ghana Vision 2020: The First Step
    (1996-2000) and the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper: 2000-2002
    (I-PRSP). It is our view that the Vision 2020 represented a major departure
    of development vision from the earlier development plans. Its specific goal
    was to build upon the gains of the Economic Reform Programme (ERP) to
    create the conditions for accelerated growth. It provided the framework
    within which to design and implement a series of industrial policies aimed at
    making Ghana a middle-income country by the year 2020. However, the
    implementation of the Vision 2020 met considerable challenges in part
    because of weak national ownership, and inadequate financing.

19. The design of the GPRS by the new Government benefited from the Vision
    2020 and the Interim-PRSP.The GPRS takes cue from vision 2020's emphasis
    on accelerated growth through the development of resource-based
    processing industries using domestic resources, but goes further to focus on
    rural transformation as the basis for pro-poor accelerated growth. Its
    preparation went through an extensive consultation process to ensure
    national ownership and commitment needed for effective implementation.
    Furthermore, all policy actions were costed and considerable efforts made to
    ensure that the priority programmes found expression in the budgets.

20. The GPRS acknowledges that notwithstanding the substantial growth in the
    economy in the 1990s there has been a widening gap in standards of living
    between the rural and urban areas, between different regions of the country
    and between genders. Poverty reduction is therefore seen as a major social,
    political and economic undertaking that needs to be tackled simultaneously
    through accelerated growth and provision of programmes and projects for
    poverty reduction.

                                                                        Schedule 1
                                                                       Page 6 of 28


2.2 Goalsand Objectives of the GPRS and Planned Reforms

21. Given the multidimensional nature of poverty and the need for
    simultaneously pursuing growth and poverty reduction, the GPRS provides a
    comprehensive set of policies, strategies, programmes, and projects to
    support growth and poverty reduction over a three-year period (2003-2005).
    It is informed by the conviction of the government that the economy of
    Ghana needs to be managed effectively to enable wealth creation by
    transforming the nature of the economy to achieve growth, and accelerated
    poverty reduction. This goal will be achieved by:

   0   Ensuring sound economic managementfor acceleratedgrowth;
   0   Increasing production and promoting sustainable livelihoods;
   0   Direct support for human development and the provision of basic services;
   0   Providingspecial programmes in support of the vulnerable and excluded;
   0   Ensuring good governance and increased capacity of the public sector;
       and
   0   The active involvement of the private sector as the main engine of growth
       and partner in nation building.

22. Strategies for poverty reduction include prudent fiscal and monetary policies;
    private sector-led industrial productionthrough the application of science and
    technology; sound and sustainable management of the environment;
    promotion of commercial agriculture using environmentally friendly
    technologies; agro-based industrial expansion; export promotion based on
    diversification and competitive advantages; increased investments in social
    services; and accelerated decentralization as the key mechanism for policy
    implementation.

23. Specific programmes, projects and institutional reforms are currently
    underway to support the realization of the objectives of the GPRS. Public
   sector reforms, in particular, are intended to align with the objectives of
   decentralization and pro-poor service delivery. Progress on improving
   financial management are important to manage fiduciary risks to assure
   Ghanaians and development partners that budget resources will be used to
   support government's policy goals and GPRS implementation in particular.
   The objectives of the GPRS are also consistent with the Millennium
   Development Goals and the efforts towards the realization of the goals are
   represented in the capsule below:

                                                                      Schedule 1
                                                                     Page7 o f 28




2.3 Poverty Reductionand Useof HIPC Funds in 2002

24. In 2002, Government began the implementation of the GPRS. Actual
   expenditures for basic services, and income generation activities for the poor
   and vulnerable of the society amounted to US$320 million (excluding donor
   funded poverty expenditures). The amount represents 25.5 per cent of total
   Government Expenditures.

25.About 75 per cent of those expenditure was on basic human development
    services - primary health care, basic education, sanitation and safe drinking
    water. The rest of the resources were spent on employment generation,
    good governance, human rights, public safety, and disaster managementand
    in improving the well being of the vulnerable in the society. Emphasis was
    also placed on the creation of employment opportunities through training in
   vocations and employable skills of the youth including those with disabilities
    and the provision of credit and food-processing machinery to women.

2.4 Poverty Reductionand Use of HIPC Funds in 2003

26. In preparing the 2003 budget, the government ensured the integration of the
    poverty reduction programmes of all MDAs into the budget process. To
   implement programmes and projects more directly affecting the poor,

                                                                         Schedule 1
                                                                       Pane 8 o f28

    Government has allocated a total of US$545 million made up of US$418
     million from GOG, and US$80 million from the HIPC fund for 2003 and about
     US$47 million of HIPC resources carried over from 2002. The total poverty
     reduction allocation in 2003 excluding donor resources represents 29.6 per
    cent of total government expenditure and it is expected that with increase in
    the share of non-interest and non-wage expenditures recurrent poverty
     related spending will increase in subsequent years.

27. The resourceswill be used to improve human development through increases
    in accessto basic services in education, health and sanitation, safe water and
    for improvements in incomes of the poor and vulnerable in the society
    through employment generation and the provision of productive assets.
    Priority will also be given to the implementation of special programmes for
    the vulnerable and excluded such as the physically challenged, and also
    mitigating the impact of disasters on victims and protection of the rights of
    women and children.

           3. THE POVERTYREDUCTIONSUPPORT PROGRAMME

28. As mentioned earlier, there can be very little poverty reduction without
    growth, but we also acknowledge that growth does not necessarily lead to
    poverty reduction. Our approach to deliver on the commitments made, even
    Growth and Prosperity" as we call the GPRS, is two-pronged - promoting
    as we sought the viewpoints of the people in developing our "Agenda for

    growth and reducing poverty.

29. On growth, we aim to increase the scope for financing our development and
    improve the environment for doing business in Ghana, while at the same
    time improving the performance of the rural sector in the interest of the
    poor. We will also address those issuesthat have hindered us from improving
    on the delivery of services for human development.

30. In addition, we recognise that we need to go the extra mile to ensure that in
    the area of good governance we actually implement what we intend and that
    what is intended for the poor does get to the poor. Government aims to
    ensure the rule of law and the promotion of human rights as well as the
    attainment of social justice and equity.      We also intend to protect the
    disadvantagedand the needy in society through special programmes.

31. We admit that the Ghanaian public service has not been able to support the
    implementation of our development agenda for a number of reasons. There
    are capacity constraints, which need to be addressed as a matter of urgency
    - these include weaknesses of the public financial management system and
   the restructuring of the public and civil services to improve on efficiency and

                                                                        Schedule 1
                                                                     Page 9 of 28

    effectiveness. In the area of public sector reforms, past efforts   have not
    delivered the anticipated outcomes. Government intends to proceed with
    greater focus, more vigour and commitment. We envisage that the reforms
    we are pursuing in the economy, in the human resource sector, and in the
    area of service delivery both in the public and private sectors will reduce
    implementation constraints identified and, to a large extent, help to improve
    on the absorptive capacity of the economy.

The policy reforms under each of the three main pillarsare detailed below.

3.1 PromotingGrowth, Incomesand Employment

3.1.1. TheIssues

32. As the GPRS points out, the structure of the national economy and for that
    matter the composition of national output has not changed much since the
    1950s.The economy predominantly depends on agriculture. The composition
    of the agriculture sector has changed very little. We have added a few more
    staples and more export crops have been introduced. The average farm size
    is still small, agriculture production remains largely rain-fed, traditional
    production techniques still dominate, and most agricultural products are
    exported unprocessed.

33. The composition of the industrial sector has been no different. Studies show
    that efficient firms are those that export. Most firms in Ghana's
    manufacturing sector are not involved in exports. Only about a third of firms
    export some of their output and these export crops comprise no more than
    35 percent of their output.

34. The annual growth rates of the agricultural and industrial sectors have not
    reached the 5 percent mark throughout the 1990s. During the last 20 years,
    the only noticeable change in the composition of national output has been a
    modest growth of the service sector led largely by the financial sector and
    retail trade. As indicated in the GPRS, various studies and surveys of the
    business enterprises have identified the following key issues as critical in
    inhibiting growth :
                   High public domestic debt
                   High-cost business environment
                   Stagnation of rural development.

3.1.2. Strategy

35.The first subset of reforms aims at overcoming the inhibitors of growth: (i)
    the limited scope for financing development by both the private and public
    sectors; and (ii) the high cost of doing business. The broad objectives of the

                                                                           Schedule 1
                                                                        Page 10 o f28

    medium term macro-framework are to promote private sector-led growth
    including small-scale business development, in a manner consistent with
    poverty reduction. Re-creating the scope for financial development requires
    curtailing the fiscal deficit, limiting public sector borrowing, and reducing the
    domestic debt to a sustainable level. Reforming debt management is a key
    area of reform we intend to pursue as part of our strategy to promote
    growth, incomes and employment.

36. Our goal of domestic debt management reform is to reduce the stock of debt
    from the current 29 percent of GDP to about 13 percent by end 2005, paying
    down the debt with a mixture of debt relief from the HIPC initiative,
    divestiture receipts, and external assistance. We intend to reduce our debt
    service burden through improvement in the sustainability of the domestic
    debt, including increased budgetary discipline and the elimination of budget
    subsidies to parastatals and therefore putting an end to their soft budget
    constraints. We believe the combination of these measure will ultimately
    create more fiscal space, and make it possible to direct resources to social
    services and poverty reduction programmes.

37. The second subset of reforms is aimed at addressing the high costs of doing
    business and improving the business environment while protecting the poor.
    The specific measures include:

       Creating a more stable supply of energy for production and also for
       household consumption, and ensuring the viability of the electricity and
       petroleum products sub-sectors by enabling them to sell at economic
       prices. At the same time we will be pursuing a programme of cross-
       subsidization for the poor (through the provision of life-line protection)
       and eliminating the need for budgetary subsidies.

   0   Enhancing international competitiveness by facilitating trade, especially in
       adopting measures that reduce the cost of unloading imports containers,
       enhance the speedy clearance of goods from the ports, and reduce the
       length of custom procedures.

   0   Improving business climate by reducing overall transactionscosts of doing
       business by eliminating the excess burden of regulationsand
       administrative processes.

38. In view of the importance of energy which not only affects the prospects of
   growth but also the struggle against poverty for the majority of low income
   households, Government has over the past 3 years gradually been adjusting
   tariffs for water and electricity in order to keep the water and energy sectors
   viable while protecting a life-line protection for the poor. Tariffs for electricity
   and water were raised by 60 and 40 percent respectively in August 2002 and

                                                                        Schedule 1
                                                                     Page 11of 28

    by a further 12 percent in March 2003. This should bring substantial
    improvements in the finances of the utility companies and contain their
    subsidy burden on the budget. To ensure that utility tariffs are fully aligned
    with current market conditions, an automatic adjustment mechanism is now
    in place and the Public Utilities Regulatory Commission (PURC) has been
    charged with the responsibilityto administer it.

39. In line with government policy orientation of an efficient and reliable energy
    sector, a Power Sector Reform plan was approved by Cabinet in April 2003.
    The plan aims at enhancing electricity generation, transmission, distribution
    and regulation and promoting the role of the private sector, especially in
    thermal generation of power. The specific measures include (i) forming two
    electricity companies, one for the Southern sector and the other for the
    Northern sector of the country (ii) making Volta River Authority (VRA)
    continue with hydro power generation while private investment is allowed in
    thermal generation; (iii) taking way transmission from VRA and given it to a
    new company and (iv) make the Energy Commission focus its work on
    licensing and technical inspection and answerable to the Minister of Energy.
    We will continue the implementation of these measures, includingthe public-
    private partnership plan, over the next three years in order to ensure a stable
    supply of energy in the country.

40. With regard to petroleum products, retail prices were increased by 60
    percent in February 2001 in order to halt the operating losses of Tema Oil
    Refinery (TOR). This was followed in mid-January 2003 with a further price
    adjustment of about 90 percent bringing retail prices to import parity levels.
    In terms of major institutional reform to make the petroleum sector more
   efficient, a National Petroleum Tender Board (NPTB) established in March
    2003 will henceforth have the mandate and independent authority to make
   adjustments in petroleum products prices according to an automatic
   adjustment formula without further approval from the Ministry of Energy. In
   order to amortize TOR debt build-up due to past mis-pricing of petroleum
   products, a Debt Recovery Levy (DRL) was announced in 2003 budget as
   part of the adjustment formula and this has been approved by parliament.
   Before the end of 2003, Government intends to review the experience with
   using the automatic pricing formula, and on that basis consider the possible
   liberalizationof petroleum products in 2004.

41. In the area of trade facilitation, government believes that simplifying and
   speeding up custom procedures are paramount. To this end government is
   moving ahead with the automation of customs procedures at the nation's
   major entry ports. The project has been completed at the airport and it is to
   be extended to the seaports of Tema and Takoradi - the entry points of 60
   percent o f t he country's imports by the end of the year. It is expected that

                                                                      Schedule 1
                                                                    Page 12of 28

    custom clearance procedures at the seaports will fall from 2 days to 1day
    and from 24 hours to 2 hours at the airport.

42.The Government has set out to improve the business environment and to
    remove obstacles to firm-level competitiveness. As preparatory to removing
    burdensome      regulations  and     simplifying  administrative processes,
    government has completed a survey of the regulatory and administrativecost
    of doing business. In this context, the government is determined to
    implement a time-bound action plan to reduce the cost of doing business. In
    terms of reducing the time cost of doing business start-ups in Ghana and
    improving compliance with the Companies Code,               Government is
    computerizing the operations of the Registrar- General's Department (RGD).
    We have also decided to decentralize the operations of RGD by establishing
    offices in all regional capitals. This will also enhance the RGDs revenue
    generating capacity.

43. The third sub-set of reforms aims at improving the economic environment of
    the rural sector. This particular sector has been selected because of the
    economy's comparative advantage in the agricultural sector, its      link to
    industry, and its potential as a source of income and employment for the
    largest segment of the population. In addition, it is a response to the fact
    that farmers were the one group that benefited least from the gains made in
    poverty reduction in the 1990s. government therefore intends to ensure that
    in our two-pronged strategy for growth and poverty reduction, the rural poor,
    the majority of whom are farmers, can and does benefit. The specific
    measuresto be undertaken include

    0    Enhancing the incentive structures for cocoa farmers and
    0   Establishing sound micro-finance schemes to improve access and
        harmonize the terms and conditions of the supply of credit for the
        predominantly small and medium scale farmers, especially food crop
        farmers who dominate the ranks of the poor.

44. Government has set out to improve and sustain the cocoa industry through
    higher farmer incomes and improved farm maintenance. It has subsequently
    increased producer prices on 4 occasions since 2001, reaching a level of
   about 68 per cent of F.0.B price in 2003. The objective over the medium
   term is to increasethe farmers' share of F.0.B price to about 70 per cent and
   also increase total annual production to about 419,000 metric tonnes by
   2005.

45.Aware of our dependency on cocoa and our vulnerability to adverse price
   movements, the government has sought to diversify our export base into
   other non-cocoa activities. Notable among these are the President's special

                                                                          Schedule 1
                                                                       Page 13 o f 28

    initiatives in cassava, palm oil, and cotton. These are also intended to
    stimulate private enterprise, improve productivity and create jobs both in
    agriculture production and in processing. Under the cassava initiative, a
    factory has been established in the Central Region (identified as one of the
    deprived districts by measure of income levels). This factory is to be fed by
    out-grower farms in seven districts. About 5000 farmers are being organized
    and assisted to cultivate cassava for processing into high-grade industrial
    starch. The government is also implementing a programme to alleviate
    poverty for people, particularlyfor the rural communities using the forest and
    wildlife sector. Under the National Forestry Plantation Development
    Programme there are plans to achieve a target of 30,000 hectares annually
    for the medium-term through the poverty alleviation focused community
    plantations.

46. We also intend to revamp the micro-finance sector The key measures to be
    undertaken include

    0    Coordination of all micro-finance initiatives by a central agency housed in
         the Ministryof Finance and Economic Planning
    0     Stakeholder review of existing policies
    0     Streamlining and expansion of revolving credit schemes to ensure that
         more people can engage in profitable ventures, create wealth and reduce
         poverty.

47. Government regards continued macroeconomic stability as critical for a
    framework that promotes growth, incomes and employment generation.
    Government intends to pursue a medium term economic programme for
    2003-2005 that aims to accomplish the following objectives.
    0    Improve the standard of living of all Ghanaians by accelerating real GDP
        growth to above 5 per cent;
    0    Increase poverty spending, financed in part through debt relief under the
         HIPC Initiative;
    0    Reduce inflation to single digit by end of 2004 and beyond; and
    0    Rebuild gross official reserve holdings to 3 months of imports of goods
        and services by 2005.

48. Agriculture is expected to play a progressive role in achieving our growth
    objective. Agricultural growth is expected to rise from 4.1 percent per annum
    in 2002 to 4.8 percent per annum by 2005. The service sector, which has
   consistently enjoyed the fastest growth, is expected to experience a modest
    growth rate of 5.1 percent in 2005 compared to the 4.7 percent growth rate
    in 2002. Industry is projected to experience increased growth with the
    implementation of agro-processing initiatives proposed in the GPRS. The
   overall targets for the period 2003-2005 are provided in Appendix Table 2.

                                                                                                     Schedule 1
                                                                                                 Page 14o f28


49. For 2003 the objective are the following:

           0    A real GDP growth rate of at least 4.7 per cent;
           0    Maintaining the rate of inflation to no more than 22 per cent by end
                2003;''
           0    An overall budget deficit equivalentto 3.9 per cent of GDP;
           0    A domestic primary budget surplus of 2.9 per cent of GDP; and
           0    The rebuilding of gross official reserve holdings equivalent to 2.3
                months of imports of goods and services.

50. On the monetaryfront, our monetary policy in 2003 aims at reducing the rate
       of inflation and minimizing exchange rate volatility. With the support of a
       strengthened fiscal position, this should ensuring that adequate bank credit is
       available to support the growth of the real sector It is also expected that the
       flexible exchange rate policy will continue to provide incentives for increased
       production of exportable goods, and enhance competitiveness on international
       markets.       Monetary and fiscal prudence in 2003 are expected to play a
       complementary role to slow down the rate of depreciation of the cedi and
       make the economy more stable for productive activity to flourish.

3.2. Improving Service Deliveryfor Human Development

51. In the area of improving service delivery for human development, access and
       equity issues will be prime concerns with emphasis placed on the deprived
       areas of the country. Government also intends to focus on efficiency as well
       as equity in the financing of education and health, to ensure a greater
       poverty impact of our actions in these areas.

3.2.1Education

52. Despite progress made over the years in providing access to education,
      Ghana still faces many challenges especially with regard to quality and
      management efficiency. Inequalities in access persist on regional and gender
      lines while issues of quality remain of concern.


Increaseaccess/ completionand quality in basic education, patticularlyin 3 most
deprivedregions (Northern, UpperEastand Upper West)




l5 The target for inflation has recently been revisedupwards to account for the unexpected spike inthe rate
o f inflation as a result o f the recent increase inpetroleum prices o f over 90 per cent, as well as increases in
utilitytariffs o fabout 12per cent.

                                                                          Schedule 1
                                                                        Page 15 o f 28


53. Our strategy on education focuses on addressing inequalities in access;
    shortfalls in spending; the limited and restrictive non-salary expenditures;
    and the acute management gaps, particularly in teacher deployment and
    supervision, distribution of learning material, retention of qualified personnel
    and coordination of donor support. To develop capabilities in all regions of
    the country, the strategy focuses on better prioritisation and targeting as well
    as developing stronger partnerships with the non-state sector. Efficiency
    measures are also critical to achieving outcomes in education, particularly in
    the elimination of the severe management gaps and improving donor
    coordination. Efficiency measures will therefore underlie government
    investment in the sector.

54. To address the issues of access, completion and quality in basic education, a
    number of initiatives have been undertaken. We have established a list of
    deprived districts based on 11weighted criteria related to quality, access and
    management efficiency to be used to target financial and material support
    such as funding for rehabilitation, construction, head teachers' impress,
    provision of textbooks, other teaching and learning materials and school
    furniture. To target assistance to schools in deprived areas, school mapping
    has been completed for eight deprived districts, for the identification of
    underserved communities in basic education. Our intention is to continue to
    prioritize financial and material support to deprived districts on the basis of
    the updated list. School mapping will be continued in the medium term to
    cover an additional ten and then twenty districts within the period.

55.To address gender biases in completion of primary education, all
    government-controlled fees for girls in public primary schools would be
    eliminated by the end of 2004 in the deprived areas. I n addition incentives
    (including scholarships) will be providedto retain girls in school. Government
    will, by the end of 2004, introduce capitation grants in public primary schools
    in underservedareas and in all public primary schools for the disabled.

56. Measures to improve the quality of education include teacher retention, the
   adequate supply of core textbooks and other teaching and learning materials.
    Currently a number of scattered programmes exist to attract and retain
   teachers in certain deprived areas and operated by various stakeholders.
   Our intention is to conduct an evaluation of these existing programmes to
    inform the proper implementation of the teacher relocation and retention
   scheme. The scheme will first be piloted in specified deprived areas and
   expanded nationwide. Improvement in pupil: teacher ratios especially in
   deprived regions are expected in the order of the following: Northern 35:l
   will be maintained; Upper East 51:l to 45:l; Upper West 37:l to 35:l. The
   pupil-textbook ratio is also expected to improve to 1:4in the 3 most deprived

                                                                          Schedule 1
                                                                       Page 16 of 28

     regions- Northern, Upper East and Upper West- so that each child has access
    to textbooks in the four core subject areas.

Improve eficiency and equity of financing education with attention to greater
poverty impact

57. An EducationStrategic Plan (ESP) has recently been completed and contains
    targets and indicators that will assist in delivering the necessary reforms and
    reducing poverty. The intention is for a sector-wide approach with
    Government exercising responsibility for sector planning and supported by
    partnerships with the home, schools and local and wider communities. Our
    ESP also includes a framework to access international support under the
    Education for AII/Fast Track Initiative (EFA/FTI) to enable Ghana achieve its
    medium term education targets and ultimately the MDGs.

58. As part of the reforms contained in the ESP, a revision of the tertiary cost
    recovery strategy is to be undertaken in 2003 and efforts made to implement
    the revised policy in 2004. An increase in non-salary expenditures as a share
    of total expenditures from 5.31 per cent in 2001 to 8.5 per cent in 2005 will
    be made to ensure a more even balance in expenditures. Additionally,
    efforts will be made to improve budget execution measured by an increase in
    the proportion of non-salary recurrent expenditures from 63.4% in 2002 to
    85% by 2004.

59.The expected outcomes for the education sector based on the various
    interventions include an increase in national GPER from 80% to 90% with
    specific targets for the three most deprived regions. Specifically girl's GPER
    is expected to increasefrom 76% to 90% by 2005. This will go a long way in
    helping Ghana attain the MDGs.

3.2.2Healtb

60. Health outcomes have improved over the past decade and Ghana records
    some appreciable gains such as a life expectancy rate of about 60 years in
    1998 which is high compared to other countries within the sub-region, and
    an infant mortality rate of 57 per 1000 which means that Ghana has the
    lowest IMR in West Africa. In spite of these attainments, there are wide
    geographical disparities in outcomes, particularly in under-five and maternal
    mortality and in child malnutrition. The three northern and the Central
    regionsare particularly disadvantaged in this regard.

61. Underlying constraints in the provision of quality health care are efficiency
   and financing gaps. These include limited decentralisation, inadequate
   motivation of professional staff, ineffective supervision and monitoring, and

                                                                                         Schedule 1
                                                                                      Page 17 of 28

      weak links between facilities and communities. Financing constraints are
      reflected in weaknesses in the implementation of the user-fee exemption
      policy, yet-to-be established links between the exemption policy and the
      proposed national health insurance scheme, concentration of considerable
      resources at the regional level and limited success with partnership of other
      government agencies and the private sector.

 62. In order to bridge the equity gaps in health care, the following direct
      interventions will be made.             Resource allocation criteria16 and a facility
      distribution plan are being developed to improve targeting of poor groups
      and geographical areas. In addition, the GPRS proposes a redistribution of
      health workers in favour of deprived areas and the provision of outreach
     services and clinics in deprived rural and peri-urban areas will be increased.

63. In view of the current rapid loss of our well-trained and qualified health
      personnel, Government considers that managing to retain the existing
      numbers of health professionals in the deprived areas, will be a major
     achievement.

64. To ensure the availability of health workers especially in deprived areas
     therefore, Cabinet is expected to review and approve a programme of
      relocation and retention of health professionals.                    These measures are
     expected to be reflected in the 2004 budget and will cover in a phased
     manner, the provision of financial incentives, accommodation, opportunities
     for career development and expanding enrolment in training institutions in
     deprived regions.

Bridge equity gaps in access to quality health care services (Northern, Upper
Easf, Upper Westand Central)

65. To address inequities in access to quality health care, the Community Based
     Health System (CHPS) adopted and launched by Government, emphasizes
     basic primary services and includes community outreach activities. Our
     intention is also to implement a high impact rapid delivery programme for
     under-five and maternal mortality within at least 2 deprived regions by the
     end of 2003 and covering 4 regions by end 2005. The focus of the
     programme is on the following interventions: EPI-PIus17; IMCI-PIUS'~;and
     Selected Ante-natal interventi~nsl~and using specified operational strategies


   A study onGeographic Resource Allocation inthe health Sector o fGhana, has beenalready undertaken
for the MinistryofHealthunder a contract with the Oxford Policy Management Unitin2001.
"Topreventimmunizablediseases,VitaminAdeficiencyandintestinalparasites
   To prevent and care for pneumonia, diarrhoea, malaria and malnutrition
I 9To prevent matemal andneonataltetanus and low-birth weight resulting frommalaria and severe
anaemia inpregnancy as well the mother-to-child transmission ofHIViAIDS

                                                                         Schedule 1
                                                                     Page 18 of 28

     including health centre-based delivery and community-based promotion and
    outreach/mobile services.

66. Government recognizes that the MMR is quite high and that our women die
    in childbirth even though the nature of the causes (including haemorrhaging,
    infections, eclampsia etc.) is preventable. Government has in the past
    supported four free ante-natal visits, while user fees are charged for delivery.
    We recognize that the reduction of maternal mortality and morbidity is very
    dependent on a pregnant women's access to essential obstetric care. To
    improve on maternal mortality, therefore, Government has adopted an
    exemption policy for deliveries, to be operationalised immediately in the four
    underserved regions (Northern, Upper East, Upper West and Central) where
    maternal mortality is high and supervised deliveries are low.        It is our
    intention to extend this exemption to the entire country by end of 2004. This
    measure we believe is an action that will go a long way to improving our
    health outcomes in the area of maternal health and also enable us achieve
    the MDG targets that we are signatory to.

EnsuringSustainableFinancingArrangements that Protect the Poor

67.The Ministry of Health has finalised and adopted a second Five-Year
    Programme of Work (POW) and Common Management Arrangements for
    2002-2006 utilising a sector wide approach involving several partners. Under
    this second POW, the reforms to the public sector role in health delivery,
    begun under the first POW will be pursued vigorously. The overall goals of
    the second POW are to reduce the inequalities between the north and south,
    urban and rural areas, and on gender.         It also promotes strongly, the
    implementation of the CHPS (referred to in par. 82).

68. Drawing on the Ministry of Health report A Profile of Inequalities in Ghana"
                                               "
    published in 2000, Government intends to improve on equity in financing.
    Government aims to adopt and implement, a new recurrent expenditure
    allocation formula to be used in the 2004 budget process, which will favour
    the most deprived areas. This is expected to result in an increase in the
    share of the sector's recurrent spending for underserved regions from 32%
    to 39% by 2005. Recurrent expenditures for health at the district level are
    expected to be not less than 42% for the period. This will enable district
    hospitals provide a greater range of services at that level.

69. We are determined that payment at the point of service delivery should not
    prevent access to essential care. We propose that over time, pre-payment
   schemes and insurance should replace fees applied at the point of service
   delivery. We are convinced that exemptions may still remain a requirement
   for a pro-poor health strategy to distribute the cost burden according to

                                                                                 Schedule 1
                                                                             Page 19of 28

     ability to pay and to health needs. In this regard, the existing exemptions
     system will be reviewed and modified to improve protection for the poor
     whilst the evaluation of the financial implications and management
     arrangements for the National Health Insurance (NHI) are finalised. By
     2005, steps would have been defined for the implementation of the NHI.
     Meanwhile, the total amounts spent on exemptions are expected to increase
     by no less than 10% annually for the period 2003 - 2005.

70.The expected outcomes for the health sector include an improvement in
     U5MR and MMR; a significant reduction (15% on average) in U5MR in the
     intervention regions after 3 years of full implementation is expected. The
     Maternal Mortality Ratio estimated at 2.620per 1000 live births in 2001 is also
     expected to decline as a result of these ante-natal interventions and the
     exemptions for maternal deliveries. The increase in the capacity of districts to
     provide a greater range of services offered at that level, an improved ability
     to adopt health policiesthat are pro-poor and sustainablewill all go to ensure
     these outcomes. The number of doctors in deprived areas is also expected
     to increase at best and at worst remain stable during the period and overall
     to retain health sector personnel, especially in deprived areas.

Retention of Health andEducation Personnel

71. On retention of health services personnel and for education, Government
     reiterates is concern with the present situation where the country is
     experiencing a high attrition rate and intends to do all that is necessary to
     retain its qualified staff. It acknowledges the good quality of staff trained
    and recognizes that to retain them Government would need to offer
    competitive remuneration and attractive conditions of service.                        It
    acknowledges the need to keep in mind the fact that such differential
    conditions of service may have implications for the wider reforms being
     planned for the entire public service, but also considers that salaries for
    health and educational personnel may need to be re-considered as costs of
    service delivery and not be narrowly defined as personal emoluments.

3.2.3.ReducingthespreadoftheHIV/AIDS epidemic

72. I n recognition of the severity of HIV/AIDS and the need to promote and
    coordinate a unified national response, we established the Ghana AIDS
    Commission, a multi-sectoral body providing leadership in the coordination of
    all HIV/AIDS related activities, in advocacy, monitoring and evaluation and
    resource mobilisation. The government has since developed a National


2o2001Annual Report ofReproductive and Child HealthUnit, MOH.The MMRstated inthe GPRS of 2
per 1000was based on earlier estimates available.

                                                                          Schedule 1
                                                                       Page 20 of 28
    HIV/AIDS and STI Policy to guide national response and a national HIV/AIDS
    Strategic Framework.

73. The challenges faced in this area include the relatively higher prevalence
    rates of certain key population groups in certain areas and the increasing
    number of orphans and vulnerable children with the level of infection and
    very limited gains in behaviour change. A renewed focus on HIV/AIDS
    prevention is key to achieving sustainable poverty reduction, given the low
    costs relative to treatment. Increased resources are required to provide for
    care and support for those living with the disease and their families, to
    reduce exclusion and further enhance prevention.

74. Currently, efforts of Government in responding to HIV/AIDS are being
    supplemented       by   donor   projects,  non-governmental organizations,
    community-based organizations and faith-based organizations. About 800
    Local Response Initiatives have so far been developed and are being
    implemented.      We will continue the implementation of these and the
    development of new initiatives at the local level over the period. Government
    will accelerate the implementation of these community programmes in 2004
    and will place emphasis on deprived regions which have as of now,
    developed few local plans for reducing the spread of AIDS and have thus not
    benefited much from the funding availablefor local initiatives on HIV/AIDS.

75. Additionally, a nationwide policy for behaviour change and communication
    activities related to HIV/AIDS is being developed and will be adopted by 2004
    for implementation. An improvement in the messages for HIV/AIDS
    prevention is expected as a result of this and ultimately a reduction in the
    prevalenceof HIV.

3.2.4SpecialProgrammesfor the VulnerableandExcluded

76. A national programme for street children has been initiated by government
    with a target of meeting the needs of 1,500 children with an integrated
    package of services and 3,000 children benefiting from at least one service
   all by 2005.      The integrated package of services offered includes the
    provision of formal or informal education/vocational skills training (depending
   on age and background), health services and counseling. Parents/guardians
   of the affected children will also be supported with micro finance where
   necessary. We have initiated programmes to re-integrate children with their
   families wherever possible. Lessons learned from this initiative for street
   children are being documented and the approach is likely to be replicated
   nationwide if successful.

                                                                        Schedule 1
                                                                     Page21 o f 28

77. Vulnerability mapping is also planned for 2005, using information from
    nationwide householdsurveys.

3.3 Promoting Good Governanceand PublicSector Management

78. Key elements of our reform efforts in the area of governance have focused
    on instituting controls and enhancing the effectiveness of public expenditure,
    strengthening public financial management, increasingthe efficiency of public
    procurement, improving public service performance and customer focus,
    cementing the rule of law and ensuring the appropriate social order, through
    strengthening the legal sector and police service, and empowering
    governance institutions and civil society to contribute to the attainment of
    national developmentobjectives.

3.3. PublicExpenditure Management
     l a



79. Government is complementing its current debt management efforts with
    measures aimed at forestalling any accelerated and/or unsustainable growth
    of the deficit.   The establishment of the Economic Policy Coordinating
    Committee (EPCC) has strengthened coordination and oversight of public
    expenditure management. Quarterly expenditure ceilings for each MDA are
    established and agreed by Cabinet, and EPCC monitors performanceagainst
    the ceilings via sub-committee reports (on expenditure,              revenue,
    commitments). The Financial Administration Regulations (FAR) Bill currently
    before Parliament will buttress the efforts underway aimed at strengthening
    the public expenditure regulatory framework, and will provide a strong basis
    for Government's actions towards modernizing and strengthening the
    regulatory framework. Once passed, we will ensure strict enforcement of
    sanctionsfor non-compliancewith rules set out by the Law.

80. As regards budget formulation, the Government in 1998/99 adopted the
    Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) which classifies the budget on
   the basis of outputs and activities and links them to specific MDA objectives
    on a three-year rolling basis. This has led to improvements in the quality of
    budget preparation at the MDA level. We have adopted a new chart of
    accounts, and will continue to pursue improvements in the framework for
    budgeting, by taking steps to align functional classifications with GFS.
    Government will strive for further improvements through: reviewing and
    strengthening the MTEF process, the institution of systems for tracking
   expenditures and commitments on a monthly basis, as well as the full
   disaggregation of the General Government Services item in the budget. In
   addition to ensuring greater transparency in the formulation of the budget,
   enhanced efficiency of public expenditure will be pursued through inter alia
   the revival of the PER process.

                                                                        Schedule 1
                                                                      Page22 o f 28


81. Over the last year, we made operational on a pilot basis in the Ministry of
    Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP) and the Controller and Accountant
    General (CAGD) the Budget and Public Expenditure Management System
    (BPEMS) which seeks to integrate and computerize all phases of the
    revenue/expenditure management cycle. The BPEMS also              ensures the
    receipt of real-time information, thereby allowing timeliness, facilitating
    transparency and limiting discretion in decision-making.            In 2004,
    Government intends to extend the BPEMS to cover the three additional
    ministries responsible for a significant amount of public expenditure, namely
    the ministriesof Health, Educationand Roads and Highways.

82. In line with enhancing accountability in the management of public resources,
    Government has been pursuing the strengthening of its internal audit
    function. Cabinet has completed review and approval of the Central Internal
    Agencies Audit Bill. It is expected that Government will soon begin to realize
    all the benefits of the internal audit function, and be assured that the
    functionality and integrity of the public expenditure management system is
    maintained. We see passage of new legislation in this area as critical to
    improving compliance with established procedures for internal control, and
    ensuring the achievement of the highest level of performance in the conduct
    of assigned responsibilities.

83. We have also focused attention on improving public resource spending
    efficiency. Our efforts are in hand, as evidenced by the progress made with
   the reforms of the public procurement system being undertaken. The value
    of public procurement ranges from between 20 and 25% of GDP with
    upwards of 80% on non-wage Government expenditures being made via the
    public procurement system. In the late 1990s, it was clear that given the key
   weaknesses in the system - the lack of well-functioning systems for
    monitoring the conduct of activities and/or tracking commitments, the non-
    uniformity of procedures due to the multiplicity of circulars and the existence
   of outdated, unrealistic directives - Government needed to embark on a
   comprehensive reform of the systems of public procurement to ensure that
   the resources deployed through them were used in the most economic and
   efficient manner, and to entrench `value-for-money` as the underlying
    principle.

84. MFEP through its Policy Procurement Oversight Group (PPOG) has pursued
   the development of a comprehensive, well-articulated policy governing public
   procurement. With assistance from our development partners, and after
   widespread consultation, these efforts have culminated in the preparation of
   the Procurement Bill (currently before Parliament) that, when enacted, will
   provide the appropriate framework to safeguard the integrity of the country's

                                                                                  Schedule 1
                                                                               Page 23 o f 28
     public procurement system, and establish a central oversight function - the
     Procurement Board - and tender review authorities at each level of public
     procurement. The Procurement Board will be vested with the requisite
    autonomy to determine the strategic focus of future procurement policy, set
    standards of practice, ensure compliance with policies, enforce sanctions,
    evaluate the effectiveness of national procurement practices and oversee the
    development of requisite skills within MDAs.

85. As you are aware, Government has placed a lot of importance on improving
    public financial management systems. In March 2002, Government's Public
    Financial Management Committee developed short, medium and long-term
    action plans'' to address identified weaknesses within the country's public
    financial management systems. These plans provided a sound platform for
    the formulation of implementation strategies, and with the support of its
    development partners, we have begun work on priority activity areas, and
    the emphasis placed in this area has begun to pay off.                   Progress with
    addressing short-term priorities has been good.

       0   Updateof National Accounts
       0   Tracking of HIPC/Poverty related activities
       0   Reductionof Payroll leakages
       0   Regular Bank Reconciliation of Accra Treasuries which account for
           80% of GoG expenditure
       0   Introduction of Commitment Control System

    Progress in the above-mentioned areas helped to address several
    weaknesses identified in the 2001 CFAA                  and the HIPC Expenditure
    Accountability Assessment carried out in 2001 The Government commitment
    to address those weaknesses is demonstrated by progress reported in the
    status report on the HIPC Assessment Action Plan, recently agreed between
    the Government and the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.

86.The medium-term reform actions, to be implemented between 2003 and
    2005 aim at consolidating gains made to date and focusing the reform
    processon achieving the necessary improvements in efficiency, accountability
    and transparency within the shortest possible time and at minimal cost. It is
    expected that these measures would eventually help address the findings
    and recommendations of the recent assessment on public procurement and
    financial management.




21     Government o f Ghana: Comprehensive Financial Management ReformAction Plan(March 25,
2002).

                                                                        Schedule 1
                                                                     Page24 o f28


3.3.2. PublicSectorReform

87. It is clear to Government that an efficient and effective public sector is a
    prerequisite for sustained economic development. Various initiatives have
    been undertaken in this area since we adopted the policies set out in the
    Economic Recovery Programmes of the mid-1980s. As you are aware, the
    initial emphasis of these efforts was on cost-reduction through institutional
    downsizing. This was followed by a more strategic approach which included
    financial management reform, efforts to enhance revenue generation and a
    reorientation of the public sector. Government sees this approach as having
    brought some improvements, for example with regards to the introduction of
    information technology into the public sector, improvements in the
    performance of the revenue agencies and the introduction of the MTEF.

88. However, despite efforts carried out to date under programmes such as the
    National Institutional Renewal Program (NIRP) and the Civil Service
    Improvement Program (CSPIP), evidence suggests that current public sector
    capacity is at a level below that required to effectively implement and ensure
    sustainability of Government's priority programmes Iike the GPRS. Effective
    implementation of reform efforts will hinge on Government putting in place
    effective institutional structures, roles and procedures particularly for the
    Central ManagementAgencies (CMAs), as well as for the Subvented Agencies
    (SAs); enforcing compliance with established rules; and tackling condition of
    service and compensation issues- which we intend to do so as to ensure the
    success of our reform programmes and of the Growth and Poverty Reduction
    Strategy.

89. It is clear that a comprehensive sector-wide approach to restructuring the
    public sector is needed. As a first step, we have embarked on an in-depth
    review of reform efforts undertakento date. A census of the public sector is
    underway and will be completed by the end of the year. The results will
    allow updating of databases and strengthen our payroll management efforts
    with a view to gaining firmer control of our wage bill. Work on a refocused
    strategy for public sector reform will continue, and the intention is for
    Cabinet to issue a policy statement on public sector reform, including public
    sector pay and employment with a view to define a time-bound revised
    reform program. Next steps of implementation of the revised time-bound
    reform programme should follow.

3.3.3.Decentralization

90. Government continues to pursue greater involvement of communities in its
    efforts to reduce poverty, generate growth and ensure accountability of the

                                                                        Schedule 1
                                                                      Page 25 o f 28
    central and local government machinery. The District Assembly system
    initiated in 1998 aimed at creating a forum where local representativesof the
    people and other agencies jointly agree on local development priorities and
    the actions required to achieve them.            It is into this system of
    institutionalized grassroots participation that we are seeking the best way to
    transfer discretion and the resources requiredto address local priorities.

91. Our Decentralization Action Plan is currently being finalized. Among other
    things, it seeks to ensure an appropriately-phased devolution of power and
    responsibility for service delivery, and makes provision for the input and
    involvement of non-governmentalorganizations. We recognize the need for
    a comprehensive effort to build and strengthen capacity at the District level,
    and actions are being taken to build the requisite capacity at the sub-national
    level for strategic programme and project selection. The Local Government
    Service Bill currently before Parliament seeks to ensure that appropriate
    control is vested at the sub-national government for human resource
    development.

3.3.4.Enhanced TransparencyandParfi'cipation

92. Government intends to cement the political democratization process that has
    made Ghana a shining example for the rest of the continent.                The
    Constitution provides a strong foundation for the establishment of good
    governance, and we see our efforts in this area as being crucial to ensuring
    sustainability of reforms, programs and initiatives being undertaken in pursuit
    of its development policies. Government's National Governance Programme
    (NGP) established in 1997 with development partner support has moved the
    agenda forward on a number of fronts. The NGP has assisted Governmentto
    refine and operationalize a framework for national governance, notable
    achievements include the computerization of court processes leading to the
    development of the Fast Track Court, assistance in the development of
    business plans for a number of governance institutions and helping
    Government institute a Thematic Group on Governance to monitor and
    coordinate governance activities of the Consultative Group of donors.

93. We intend to continue to pursue activities that will strengthen the electoral
    process, including dealing with voter register integrity; supporting the work
   of various governance institutions - such as the Commission on Human
    Rights and Administrative Justice (CHRAJ), the National (NMC), and the
    National Commission for Civic Education (NCCE); and enforcing the
   provisions of the Constitution with regards to the promotion and protection of
   fundamental human rights. It is essential that Parliament be supported to
   enable it adequately fulfill its oversight mandate, and we will continue our

                                                                          Schedule 1
                                                                       Page26 o f28

    efforts in this area, as well as with strengthening the Judiciary, its processes
    and its organs of enforcement.

94. In addition to the above, Government is strengthening the legislative
    framework for enhanced accountability and the protections of rights and the
    rule of law. The proposed Freedom of Information Law, currently before
    Parliament, seeks to provide greater access to government information, and
    action will be taken to ensure the necessary supporting oversight
    mechanisms at both national and local level are put in place. This year, the
    budgets of key accountability institutions - SFO and CHRAJ - have been
    increased in real terms.

95. Aware of the weaknesses of our domestic revenue mobilization, the
    government is already taking a range of measures designed to strengthen
    revenue collection and administration. In addition to the creation of a
    National Tax Audit Team, we have established a Revenue Agencies
    Governing Board (RAGD) to enhance coordination in all aspects of domestic
    revenue mobilization.

                4. MONITORING AND EVALUATIONOF GPRS

96. To effectively monitor and evaluate the implementation and outcomes of
    programmes and projects in the GPRS an M&E Plan has been developed. A
    Parliamentary Committee has been established to oversee the GPRS
    implementation process. After extensive consultations with all relevant
    stakeholders 52 indicators to be monitored were identified. An M&E system
    that will be used to track the indicators to assess progress of the GPRS
    implementation has also been put in place. Aligned with the GPRS M&E plan,
    and expanded as needed, is the quantitative matrix to monitor PRSC
    implementationwhich was prepared in collaborationwith Bank staff.

97. Various studies will be conducted to explore linkages between interventions
    and their impacts on growth and poverty reduction. In addition, other
    participatory monitoring tools such as the citizens' report cards will be used
   to assess programme impacts. Surveys will be used to track expenditures to
    determine the extent to which resources were used for the actions that had
   direct impact on the target group.

98.A number of Poverty and Social Impact Assessment (PSIA) studies will be
   conducted. Three of such studies will be conducted in 2003. The criteria for
   the selection of these studies will include the expected size and direction of
   impact, prominence of issue in government's development agenda,
   anticipated policy reform, and the level of national debate surrounding the
   issue and related reform.

                                                                       Schedule 1
                                                                     Page 27 of 28


99.To evaluate the impact of the GPRS on the poor in a more comprehensive
   way a CWIQ is being conducted in 2003 by the Ghana Statistical Services
   (GSS). In 2004 a more extensive household survey (GLSS5) capable of
   disaggregating to the district level will be conducted. Meanwhile, data from
   GLSS4 and the 2000 Census is being mergedto complete the development of
   a district level Poverty Map. The results of the poverty map will be published
   by the end of the year. In 2004 the GSS will also launch a vulnerability
   mapping exercise.

100. Finally, the M&E system has launched a Strategic Environment
   Assessment (SEA) programme aimed at assessing the impact of the GPRS
   policies on the environment to ensure that growth arising from GPRS
   implementation can be sustained. A workshop on SEA was organized to
   launch the programmeon February26ththrough the 28th2003.

                                 5. CONCLUSION

101. The policy measures described in this letter are fully consistent with the
   Government's commitment to spearhead the drive towards growth, the
   diversification and deepening of the economy, poverty alleviation, social
   equity and prudent economic management. The annual Budget Statement
   and Economic Policy will continue to be the main instrument for delivering
   the programmes outlined in the GPRS. It will be the instrument to show the
   flexibility of Government to the changing needs and the Government's
   responsiveness to special needs of the different communities and the
   different sectors of the economy.

102. The implementation of the reform programme presented in this letter shall
   remain the responsibility of the various Ministries, Department and Agencies
   as part of their normal functions in the production and delivery of public
   goods and services. The overall coordination of the programmes and
   activities shall remain the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and
   Economic Planning.

103. On behalf of the Government of Ghana, Iwish to thank IDA for the
   programme assistance provided under the ERSO I11in 2001 and recently for
   the 2ndHealth Sector Project. The ERSO support was critical in layingthe

Hon. Yaw bsafa-Mhb, M.P.
Mirrister of Financeand Ecanctmic Planning

                                                                                                 Schedule 1
                                                                                             Page29 of 30

      APPENDIX TABLE1: WILL THE MILLENNIUM                       DEVELOPMENT        GOALS      (MDGS) BE
      MET?

fi    The linkbetweenthe MDGs& GPRSTargets - Status at a Glanceas at May 2003

MillenniumDevelopmentGoal             CorrespondingGPRS Target                     Will MDG be State            of
                                                                                   met?              supportive
                                                                                                     Environment
Halve proportion o f those in extreme Reduce proportion below poverty line         Probably          Strong
poverty                               from 39%   - 32%; and extreme poverty
                                      from 27% -21%

Halve proportion o f people suffering Reduce    proportion     o f   underweight   Unlikely          Fair
from hunger                           children under five from 25% -21%

By 2015,      all children complete   *Longterm target -Achieve UPE                Potentially       Fair
primary schooling                     *Increase Primary GER from 80% - 90%
                                     by 2005

Eliminate gender disparity inprimary  Increase GER for girls from 76% - 90%        Potentially       Fair
& secondary education by 2005 and by2005
to all levels by 2015


Reduce Under-five Mortality by two-   Reduce    Under-five      Mortality     from Probably          Strong
thirds                                1lO/lOOO to 95/1000


Reduce maternal mortality by three-   Reduce Maternal mortality rate from          Probably           Strong
quarters between 1990 and 2015        200/100,000 to 160/100,000

                                      Increase proportion o f births attended by
                                      skilledhealthpersonnel from49% - 55%
Halt & reverse the spread o f Reduce new infections in 15-49 age group             Potentially        Fair
HIV/AIDS                              to 24% by 2005

Halt & reverse the incidence o f No specific target                                Insufficient data  Fair
malaria & other major diseases


Integrate principles o f sustainable  Reduce proportiono f forest loss by 10%      Potentially        Fair
development into country policies
and programmes and reverse loss o f
environmental resources

Halve the proportion o f people       Increase proportion o f population with      Potentially        Fair
without access to safe drinking water sustainable access to an improved water
by 2015                               -- UrbanAreas -
                                      source
                                         InRuralAreas -from40%-54% by2005
                                                       from 70% - 78% by 2005

Deal comprehensively      with L D C  Cancel proportion o f official bilateral aid Potentially        Strong
debt and make debt sustainable inthe
long term                             Reduce debt service as proportion o f
                                      exports

Private                  13.6    13.6    13.8    14.1
Public                   6.1     9.4     10.4    10.5
Gross national saving    20.3    21.2    22.2    22.6
Private                  19.2    17.3    17.0    16.5
Public                   1.2     3.9     5.2     6.1


u
b
2
M
E
u
0

P  'i




         0
         Y




  u

       I

              B
rr(




        I    I

.-E




       U
       eBe
       M




       L
       U
       0
       2
       u

       zY
       z
       8
       I
       0
       V
       I
       e
       3
       E
       M




       3
       5eR
       I
       3
       3
       -


-0
8     .-x
      3
      2




             m
             0 1    W

         M
      W
2L 2
   5    32

                                                                                               Schedule 3
                                                                                               Page 1o f 5


                                  QUANTITATIVE        MONITORING   INDICATORS




Exuandsuuulv of                             PRSC-1
energy services
economicallv while Increasedavailability of Reducesubsidies    MoFEP      450 billion cedis in Annual
protectingthe Door electricity                                            2002

                                            Reduce systemloss  PURC       26% in2002

                                            PRSC-2

                                            Reducesubsidies    MoFEP      50 billion in2003    Annual

                                            Reducesystem loss  PURC       NiA                  Annual


                                            PRSC-3

                                            Reduce subsidies   MoFEP      NiA                  Annual

                                            Reducesystemloss   PURC       2004-NA (target      Annual
                                                                          in2005 is 18 %)

Improvetrade                                PRSC-1
facilitation
                   Increasedexport growth   Increasedexports   BOG        1,867 million US$    Annual
                                                                          2001

                   Reducedtrade related     Reduced            Customs    Clearancetime at
                   administrationbarriers:  administrationtime            customsreducedas
                                                                          follows:
                                                                          KIA -from 24 to 2
                                                                          hours;
                                                                          TemaandTakoradi
                                                                          -from2 days to 1
                                                                          day
                                            PRSC-2

                                            Increasedexport    BOG        2003 -USS2,31        Annual
                                            growth                        million

                                            Reduced                       Clearancetime at
                                            administrationtime            customsreducedas
                                                                          follows:
                                                                          TemaandTakoradi
                                                                          -from 2 days to 1
                                                                          day

                                                                                                 Schedule 3
                                                                                                 Page2 o f 5




                                            PRSC-3

I                                           Increasedexport       BOG         2004- US$2,56      4nnual
                                            growth                            billion

 Improve             Increasedprivate       PRSC-1
 Investment          investment
 Climate                                    ForeignDirect         BOG         US$89 million in   Annual
                                            Investment                        2001

                                            Reducedtime for       GIPC/MoPSD  Ghana - 126days in
                                            businessregistration              2001

                                            Creditto the private  BOG         2002 - 47 percent
                                            sector as a share of
                                            domestic credit23
                                            PRSC-2                                               Annual

                                            ForeignDirect         BOG
                                            Investment

                                            Reducedtime for       GIPCiMoPSD
                                            businessregistration

                                            Creditto theprivate   BOG         2003-55 percent
                                            sector as ashare of
                                            domestic credit
                                            PRSC-3

                                            ForeignDirect         BOG
                                            Investment

                                            Reducedtime for       GIPCMoPSD   Ghanamoves closer  Annual
                                            businessregistration              to 2001 IDA
                                                                              averageof I 8 days

                                            Creditto theprivate   BOG
                                            sector as ashare of
                                            domestic credit




          ~~




        23 Credit from deposit money banks to the private sector.

                                                                                             Schedule 3
                                                                                             Page 3 o f 5




Improve rural                              PRSC-1
sector farm and
non-farm growth    Increaseagriculturereal Agriculture growth  MOFEPIMOFA   2002: 4.5%       4nnual
                  growth

                  Increasedrural sector    Producerprice       Cocoa        2002: 68% F.0.B
                  householdcash crop                           BoardiMOFA
                  income:cocoa

                  Increasedexports of      Increasedexports of Cocoa        Cocoaexports:
                  cash crop: Cocoa         cash crop: Cocoa    BoardMOFA    2001: US$381.1
                                                                            million
                                                                            2002: US$463.4
                                                                            million
                                           PRSC-2

                                           Agriculture growth  MOFEP/MOFA   2003: 4.7 %      4nnual

                                           Producer price      Cocoa        2003: 69%ofFOB
                                                               BoardIMOFA   price

                                           Increasedexportsof  Cocoa        Cocoaexports
                                           cash crop: Cocoa    BoardiMOFA

                                           PRSC-3

                                           Agriculture growth  MOFEPiMOFA                    Annual

                                           Producer price      Cocoa        2005: 70% F.0.B
                                                               BoardiMOFA

                                           Increasedexports of Cocoa        Cocoaexports
                                           cash crop: Cocoa    BoardMOFA

Increaseaccess,   Increasedenrollmentin    PRSC-1
completion and     3 northemregions
aualitv in basic  (70%inNorthem, 79%       Gross Primary       MOE-EMIS/GSS In2002:          Annual
education,        in UpperEast, and63%     EnrollmentRate                      80% National
particularly in   inUpperWest) by2005      (GPER)
three most                                                                  --- 62% Northem
                                                                                70%UpperEast
deprivedregions                                                                 56%UpperWest
                                           PRSC-2                                            Annual

                                           GPER                MOE-EMIS/GSS In2003:
                                                                               %National
                                                                            -%Northem
                                                                            -% UpperEast
                                                                            -% Upper West
                                           PRSC-3                                            Annual

                                           GPER                MOE-EMISIGSS In2004:
                                                                               %National
                                                                            -% Northem
                                                                            -% Upper East
                                                                            -% Umer West

                                                                                                      Schedule 3
                                                                                                      Page 4 o f 5




Improved             Increaseofactualnon-    PRSC-1
efficiencvand        salary recurrent
eauitv of financing  expendituresas a share  Actual MOEnon-      CAGD andMOE        2002-63.6%        Annual
education with       of total education      salary recurrent    actualexpenditure
attentionto greater  recurrentexpenditures   expenditures as a   retums
povertyimpact        from 5.3 percentin      percentageof
                     2002 to 8.5 percentin   budgetedMOEnon-
                     2005                    salary recurrent
                                             expenditures
                                             PRSC-2

                                             Actual MOE non-     CAGD andMOE                          Annual
                                             salaryrecurrent     actual expenditure
                                             spending as a       returns (audited
                                             percentageof        accounts)
                                             budgetedMOE non-
                                             salary recurrent
                                             education
                                             expenditures
                                             PRSC-3

                                             Actual MOEnon-      CAGD andMOE                          Annual
                                             salary recurrent    actual expenditure
                                             spending as a       retums(audited
                                             percentageof        accounts)
                                             budgetedMOEnon-
                                             salary recurrent
                                             education
                                             expenditures
Bridgeeauitv gaps                            PRSC-1
in access to aualitv Improvementsin
healthcare           maternal and child      DPT3 coverage rate  MOHannual          2001 DPT3         Annual (MOH)
services             healthinthe most        by region           reports and GDHS   Northern: 82.3%   4-yearly
                     deprivedregionsas                                              Upper East: 77.1% (GDHS)
                     measuredby a                                                   Upper West: 91.2%
                     reductioninthe under                                           Central: 81.3%
                     five mortality rate and
                     an increasein
                     superviseddeliveries
                     (as a proxy for matemal % supervised        MOH annual         2000 - Supervised
                     mortality):             deliveriesbyregion  reports andGDHS    Deliveries- 49%

                     U5MR in2005             PRSC-2
                     (per 1000)
                     Northern: 130           DPT3 coverage rate  MOHannual                            Annual (MOH)
                     Upper East: 115         by region           reports and GDHS                     4-yearly
                     Upper West: 117                                                                  (GDHS)
                     Central: 107                                MOH annual
                                             % supervised        reports and GDHS
                     By 2005, % Supervised   deliveriesby region
                     Deliveriesat 55%

                                                                                                 Schedule 3
                                                                                                Page 5 of 5




                                          PRSC-3

                                          DPT3 coveragerate   MOHannual                          Annual (MOH)
                                          by region           reports andGDHS                    4-yearly
                                                                                                 (GDHS)
                                          %supervised         MOHannual
                                          deliveriesby region reports and GDHS

Ensuresustainable Reductioninout of       PRSC-1
financing         pocketspendingand
arrangementsthat  increasedutilization of Amount ofmoney      MOHFinancial     2001 - 16billion  Annual
protectthe Door   healthservicesby the    spent on exemptions Report           cedistotal
                  poor                    per region
                                          PRSC-2

                                          Amount ofmoney      MOHFinancial                       Annual
                                          spent on exemptions Report
                                          per region

                                          PRSC-3

                                          Amount ofmoney      MOHFinancial                       Annual
                                          spent on exemptions Report
                                          per region.

                                                                                                 Schedule4
                                                                                                 Page 1of 1

                         Ghana PRSC and MillenniumDevelopmentGoals
                                    -
                                                                                              PRSC Monitoring
                                                                                              Indicators
                          Increaseresourcesgoingto deprived                                   Executionrate ofnon
UniversalPrimary          districts for educationonthe basis of    expendituresas share of    salary recurrent
                          updatedlists andschoolmapping            total expendituresfrom     expenditures of the
                          (PRSCI-3)                                5.3%in2002 to no less      education sector budget
 Target: Ensurethat by                                             than 8.5%in2005
2015, all childrenwill be Implementteacher retention scheme in
able to completea full    most depriveddistricts(PRSC2-3)         NationalGPER increases
                                                                   from 80 to 90%(2002-
                          Ensuretimely delivery of textbooks for   2005)
                          primaryschools inmost deprivedareas
                          (PRSC2-3)

                          Provideincentives(scholarships)to        From2002 to 2005,          Gross Primary
                          enablegirls to completeprimary school in primary school drop out    EnrollmentRate
empowerwomen              depriveddistricts (PRSC2-3)              rate for girls reducedfrom (GPER)
                                                                   39%to 30%
Target: Eliminategender   Eliminateall school fees for primary
disparity in primaryand   school pupils in deprivedareas (PRSC2-3) From2002 to 2005, girls'
secondaryeducation,                                                GPER increasesfrom 76%
preferablyby 2005, and                                             to 90%
to all levelsofeducation
by no laterthan 2015
Goal 4: ReduceChild       ImplementCommunity-basedHealth           Increasedutilization of    DPT3 coveragerate
Mortality                 PlanningandServices (CHPS), with         healthservices in most
                          priority to mostdeprivedregions(PRSCl-   deprivedregions, leading
Target: Reduceby two      3)                                       to reductioninU5MR in4
thirds, between 1990and                                            most deprivedregions
2015, the under-five      Implementhigh impactrapiddelivery
mortality rate            programfor U5MR andMMR within 4
                          most deprivedregions (PRSC1-3)

                          Reformexemptionsystemto provide
                          subsidies for the poorest(PRSC1-3)
Goal5: Improve            ImplementCHPS, with priority to most     Increaseinsupervised       % superviseddeliveries
Maternal Health           deprivedregions(PRSCl-3)                 deliveriesfrom49% in
                                                                   2000 to 55% in2005,
Target: Reduce by three   Implementhighimpactrapid delivery        leadingto areductionin
quarters, between 1990    programfor U5MR andMMR within 4          maternalmortality ratio,
and2015, the maternal     most deprivedregions (PRSCI-3)          particularly in4 most
mortality ratio                                                   deprivedregions
                          Adopt exemptionpolicy for deliveriesin4
                          most deprivedregions (PRSCI) and
                          extendto rest of country (PRSC2-3)
Goal 6: Combat            Implementcommunityinitiatives to        HIV/AIDS prevalencerate     HIV/AIDS prevalence
HIV/AIDS, malaria,        preventHIV transmissionandprovide        for pregnantwomen aged     rate for pregnant
and other diseases        :are to PLWHAs, AIDSorphansand           15-24maintainedbelow       women aged 15-24
                          familiesinmostdeprivedregions           5% in2005
Target: Have haltedby     CPRSC1-3)
2015 and begunto
reversethe spread of      [mplementCHPS, with priority to most
HIV/AIDS                  leprived regions(PRSCI-3)

                          implementhigh impactrapiddelivery
                          xogram for USMR andMMR within 4
                          nost deprivedregions(PRSCI-3)

                                GHANA

         POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT

                               Annexes




ANNEXES:

Annex 1:  Progresson ERSO I11Triggers
Annex 2:  Status Report on Triggers for the HIPC Floatingcompletion Point
Annex 3:  Framework Memorandum MDBS
Annex 4:  Multi-Donor Budgetary Support Program
Annex 5:  Expenditure Accountability Assessment andAction Plan (AAP)
Annex 6:  GhanaPublic Financial Management
Annex 7:  Ghana CPAR 2003: Summary o fKeyFindingsandRecommendations
Annex 8:  IssuesandBackground Impact Analysis
Annex 9:  SummaryList ofPrioritized Studiesfor PRSC-2
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Annex 11: KeyEconomic Indicators
Annex 12: Key Social Indicators
Annex 13: KeyExposure Indicators
Annex 14: Ghana- Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex 15: IMFPublic InformationNotice
Annex 16: Timetable o fKey ProcessingEvents

                                                                                                   Annex 1
                                                                                               Page 1of 1

                          ANNEX1: PROGRESS ERSOI11TRIGGERS
                                                      ON




 1. Poverty Reduction: (i)  preparation o f an Action   Final GPRS transmitted to the Bank and the IMFon
Plan for     implementing the GPRS, including           February 20, 2003. Annual tranche o f the GPRS
reduction o f regional disparities concerning access    integratedwith the 2003 budget.
to education and health; and (ii)  integration o f the
GPRS with the annual budget, beginning with the
2002 budget.
2.   Decentralization o f Functions       to  District  Local Government Service Bill submitted to
Assemblies, including strengthening of the capacity     Parliament in early 2003. Decentralization o f
o f local Governments.                                  functions to DAs delayed due to non enactment o f
                                                        Local Government Service Bill.
3. Continued Implementation o f Restructuring Plan      Electricity tariff raised inAugust 2002 (60 percent)
conceming the Energy Sector: (i)the adjustment o f      and inMarch 2003 (12 percent). Henceforth,
tariffs to reach economic levels; and (ii) progress in automatic adjustment mechanisminplace.
implementing a restructuring plan (unbundling o f
transmission and generation functions) for VRA and      Important increase (90%) o f prices o fpetroleum
ECG (involving divestiture).                            products made effective on January 17, 2003.
                                                        National Petroleum Tender Board henceforthhas
                                                        the mandate to make adjustments inpetroleum
                                                        prices accordingto the automatic adjustment
                                                        formula.

                                                        Restructuring plan o f VRA (separation o f
                                                        transmission and generation activities and
                                                        confirmation of private sector role inthermal
                                                        generation)  - Cabinet decided favorably inApril
                                                        2003
                                                        Divestiture o f ECG - not met. In early 2003,
                                                        consultant report on power sector reforms points to
                                                        unfavorable international market conditions as a
                                                        constraint to meet objective.
4.    Enhanced      Govemance,       including      the NACP adopted. This has beenaccompanied by a
implementation o f a National Anti-Corruption Plan broadpublic discussion o f corruption issues. A
(NACP).                                                 number o f high level former Government officials
                                                        and managers o f public companies have been
                                                        prosecuted.
                                                        Cabinet approvedreforms to strengthen the internal
                                                        audit functions.
                                                        New Procurement Bill and Financial Administration
                                                        Billsubmittedto Parliament inearly 2003.
5. Strengthening Monitoring and Evaluation by key Role of stakeholders in monitoring has increased.
stakeholders and civil society.                         M&E of GPRS prepared in participatory manner
                                                        adopted in early 2003. The Parliament's role has
                                                        been enhanced in monitoring GPRS (Oversight
                                                        Committee established).
6.    Promotion    o f    Non-Traditional     Exports:  Limited progress so far. Important areas include
formulation o f an export-led growth strategy with      importlexport      regime,  labor   laws,   industrial
the aim o f accelerating the growth o f non-traditional relations with unions, and trade and support
exports.                                                infrastructure and services.

                                                                                            Annex 2
                                                                                          Page 1of 2


                   ANNEX2: STATUSREPORT ONTRIGGERSFORTHEHIPC
                                   FLOATING     COMPLETIONPOINT
                                            (February2003)


PRSP. Preparation o f a full PRSP and satisfactory              The full PRSP was finalized and sent to
implementation for at least one year, as evidencedby the joint  the IMFand World Bank inFebruary
staffassessment o fthe country's annual progress report.        2003.

Macroeconomic stability. Continued maintenance o f              The final review o f the PRGFprogram
macroeconomic stability as evidenced by satisfactory            couldnot be completed. A new three-year
implementation o f the PRGF-supported program.                  PRGF-supported programis proposed for
                                                                Boardconsideration inApril 2003.

Use of budgetary savings. The use o fbudgetary savings from     The tracking system is inplace and HIPC
interimdebt service reliefhave beenused inthe priorityareas     relief is additional to budgetary spending
indicated inTable 6 and monitored inthe framework for           on social sectors. The GPRS hasjust been
poverty reduction expenditures. Informationon the use of these  finalized and therefore there is not yet an
savings andon poverty expenditures has beenpublishedintime annual progress report.
to be considered ina public review o f GPRS implementation,
as input to the annual progress report on the GPRS. The
increase intotal spending onthese priorities must equal or
exceed HIPC relief (less relief usedfor domestic debt
reduction) duringthe interimperiod.

Governance
     0  Procurement reform. Regulatory and oversight body to    New procurement code hasbeen
          implementnewprocurement code hasbeen                  approved by cabinet andwas sent to
          established.                                          parliament inearly 2003. Preparatory
                                                                work for the new regulatory and oversight
                                                                body is expected to beginonce the bill
                                                                has been approved.
     0  Internal audit. Operational intemal audit capacity has  Staffing efforts underway, but
          been established through full staffing o f existing   unattractive pay and conditionsreportedly
          intemal audit positions.                              hamperingrecruitment.

Public expenditure management
    0    Reports on cash expenditures and commitments by        Newreporting systemimplemented, but
         MDAs,classifiedby function, havebeenpublished          data not yet published.
        monthly inthe Government gazette, following
         implementation o f new reporting system.

    0   A computer-based financial management information       System has been installed on a pilot basis
         systemto underpinthe new expenditure reporting         at the MoF andCAGD. It is envisaged to
        system has been installedon a pilot basis inthe         test the new system before it will be
        MinistryofFinance, CAGD, andat least two key            rolled out to other ministries.
         sector ministries.


Decentralizationof Government functions
    0   Devolutiono fresponsibilities to local districts, as    Local service bill sent to parliament in
        evidenced by (i)  submissionto Parliament o f a local   early 2003. District Composite Budgets
        service bill to enable the decentralization o f human   not yet implemented inpilot districts.

                                                                                              Annex 2
                                                                                          Page 2 of 2



       development o f DistrictComposite Budgets inpilot
       districts.
Education
   4   The primary gross enrollment rates for girls has         The primary gross enrollmentrate for
       increased from 72 percent in2000 to 74 percent.           girls reached 77 percent in2001/02.
             ~        ~




Health
   4   The percentage o fhouseholds with access to safe          Ruralwater coverage is estimated at 44
       water has increased from 40 percent in2000 to            percent.
       46 percent inrural areas.
   4   Recurrent health expenditures at district and lower       Estimatedshare o f expenditures on health
       levelGovernments have risen from 42 percent o fthe        at district and lower levels remained at 42
       total recurrent healthbudget in2000 to 45 percent.       Dercentin2001.

Energy Sector
   4   An automatic price adjustment mechanismhasbeen            Pricing formula not implementedin2002.
       put inplace andimplementedmonthlyto reflect               Will be applied from March2003.
       changes ininternationalmarket prices inlocal
       currency inthe petroleum sector, and includes all taxes
       incorporatedinto the adjustment formula at end-March
       2002.
   0   A strategy for achievingfull economic pricing inthe       Strategy established and implemented
       electricity sector, including lifeline pricing to ensure  since August 2002.
       affordability for low income users, has been
       implemented.

                                                       Annex 3
                                                     Page 1o f 6




          ANNEX 3: FRAMEWORKMEMORANDUM


          BETWEENTHE GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
                          AND
                 DEVELOPMENTPARTNERS


     MULTI-DONORBUDGETARYSUPPORT PROGRAMME
         INSUPPORT OFTHE IMPLEMENTATIONOF
         GHANA POVERTYREDUCTIONSTRATEGY


Mini-ConsultativeGroup Meeting, 24 March2003, Accra, Ghana


                         Draft

                                                  Annex 3
                                                Page 2 of 6




                       TABLE OF CONTENTS



Preamble

Introduction

Assumptions andPrinciples

ProgressAssessment Framework

Review Process

Responsibilities of the Government of Ghana

Responsibilities of the Development Partners

Anti Corruption

Termination

Continuation

                                                                                   Annex 3
                                                                                Page 3 o f 6

    1. PREAMBLE

1.1 This Framework Memorandum (FM) describes the common framework for the
    development o f grant, credit and loan agreements through the Multi-donor Budgetary
    Support Programme (MDBS) to support the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy
    (GPRS). This FM has been reviewed and accepted by the Government o f Ghana
    (GoG) and Development Partners24(DPs) inAccra on 24 March 2003.

1.2 This Framework Memorandum (FM) will be supplemented by individual
    arrangements between each individual DP and the GoG. The contents in the
    individual funding arrangements take legal precedence over this Framework
    Memorandum. However, DPs will establish funding arrangements that are compatible
    with the spirit and provisions o f this FM. This arrangement does not constitute an
    international treaty.

1.3 Amendments to this FM can be made by way o f an exchange o f letters in terms
    acceptedby all DPs involved inthe MDBS andthe GoG.

    2. INTRODUCTION

2.1 The GoG and DPs consider the Framework Memorandum for Multi Donor Budget
    Support as the common basis for support to the implementation o f GPRS through the
    GoG's budget.

2.2MDBS i s open to other DPs who might wish to participate. The agreement to
    participate does not imply that all the participating DPs will be providing resources in
    any given year. However, it does imply that the spirit o f this arrangement will be
    respected. MDBS DPs currently include, the African Development Bank, Canada,
    Denmark, European Union, Germany, The Netherlands, Switzerland, United
    Kingdom, and the World Bank.

2.3 The objectives o f MDBS are to harmonize DPs' policies and procedures in order to
   minimize transaction costs for the GoG. This includes:
    0   agreeing to common benchmarks against which performance i s assessed;
    0   improving dialogue between DPs andthe GoG;
    0   basing funding commitments and disbursements on the achievement of agreed
        targets.

2.4 Other potential advantages include: reduction in competing demands on the GoG
    from DPs, reduction in tied aid, promotion o f GoG accountability for service
   delivery, facilitation o f broad-based discussion on reform agenda, and improvedDP
   co-ordination.

                                                                                 Annex 3
                                                                              Page 4 o f 6

2.5 The MDBS also aims at increasing the predictability o f donor flows.         This will
    benefit overall economic development and the implementation and efficiency o f
   programmes inpriority sectors.

3 ASSUMPTIONS AND PRINCIPLES

3.1 The MDBS assumes the following:
    0  The GPRS sets out the GoG's poverty reduction strategy.

    0  The Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) budget process provides the
       instrument to allocate resources in line with priorities set out inthe GPRS within
       the resource envelope.

3.2 The following principles apply:

    0  The GoG andDPs agree that triggers for performance-based disbursement should
       berealistic, withinthe power ofthe GoG to achieve, and limited innumber.
    0   DPs will work closely with the GoG to harmonize procedures andpractices with
       respect to both MDBS and improved harmonization inrespect o f the GPRS cycle
       i.e. policy dialogue, priorities, planning, conditionalities, disbursement cycles,
       reporting, monitoring, accounting, assessment and audit.


4 PROGRESSASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK

4.1 The Progress Assessment Framework is the set o f policy reform measures and
   poverty reduction goals that will be usedto assess progress o f GPRS implementation.

4.2 The GoG and DPs will use the progress assessment framework and GPRS review
   process as tools for dialogue on progress on GPRS implementation. Through a
    continuous process, it will allow the GoG and the DPs to assess progress towards
    agreed medium term objectives and the implementation status o f specific measures.
   Progress will help to determine appropriate levels of future funding for the budget.

4.3 The MDBS is based on a common set o f policy and poverty reduction goals. These
    goals are agreed between the GoG and the participating DPs and will be based on the
    goals o f the GPRS. For 2003 the progress assessment framework will consist o f two
   matrices (MDBS Policy Matrix [bilaterals and EU], and World Bank Poverty
   Reduction Support Credit). The two matrices for 2003 will be the subject o f separate
    arrangements. All participants in this FMintend to work towards the use of a single
   matrix based on the GPRS.

5 REVIEW PROCESS

5.1 Subject to the individual bilateral arrangements between the GoG and each DP, the
   review process for MDBS will be common for all DPs and based on the GoG review
   process o f the GPRS. Participants will meet on an agreed schedule to jointly review
   implementation and the attainment o f objectives.

                                                                                 Annex 3
                                                                               Page 5 o f 6


5.2 The timing o f review meetings through the year will be decided in such a way that the
    budget process is facilitated and that the PRSC requirements and the bilateral DPs'
    need for inputs to their decision-making processes are accommodated to the extent
    that i s possible.

5.3 The review process will use information gathered through ongoing processes to
    ensure that individual DPs do not set up a parallel review process. The review process
    should endeavor to minimize additional technical work. However, should the quality
    o f regular information prove not to be satisfactory, the DPs and the GoG will
    establish by discussion a timeframe and the possible support DPs could offer to build
    the capacity needed to provide this information.

6 RESPONSIBILITIESOF THE GOG

6.1 There are three over-arching requirements:
    0   The GoG i s expected to maintain an appropriate macro-economic framework.
        This will usually be within the context o f a PRGF arrangement with the
        InternationalMonetary Fund;
    0   The GoG i s expected to develop an appropriate monitoring and evaluation system
        i s developed by the GoG and will be used to assess progress on the
        implementation o f the GPRS and to provide feedback for the further
        strengtheningo fthe strategy.
    0   Progress is made inreforms represented inthe progress assessment framework as
        mutuallyestablished from year to year.

6.2 The GoG, in accordance with its rules, regulations, policies, and procedures, and
    subject to the availability o f h d s will:
           Implement the GPRS.
      0    Ensure that total expenditures and sector allocations effectively reflect the
           GoG's poverty reduction commitment andthat the budget i s comprehensive.
      0    Provide the DPs with the agreed upon reports.
      0    Co-ordinate and organize the semi-annual MDBS meetings, inconjunction with
           the MiniConsultative Group. These meetings will be used for programreview,
           information sharing, andprogress reporting.
      0    Co-ordinate andorganizejoint assessment missions.

7 RESPONSIBILITIESOFTHE DEVELOPMENTPARTNERS

7.1 The DPs are committed to working in partnership with the GoG and facilitating
    implementation o f the GPRS both through direct budget support and complementary
    support provided through DPs' wider development cooperation programmes. To the
    extent possible and consistent with their internal laws, policies, procedures and
    individual bilateral agreements with the Government, DPs commit themselves to:

                                                                                 Annex 3
                                                                               Page 6 o f 6

     0   Support implementation o f the GPRS by informing the Government as to the
         level o f their planned budget support with indicative commitments for the
         following years. The actual commitments will be made in individual bilateral
         arrangements between each DP andthe Government
     0   Work towards achieving the goal o f a programmatic approach withina common
         framework.
     0   Endeavor to co-ordinate the timing o f their disbursements in line with the
         Government's budgetary requirements.

7.2 The DPs will endeavor to follow the principles enshrined inthe FM. Reference to its
    key processes should be includedin individualbilateral funding arrangements to the
    maximum extent. These arrangements will mainly provide further details on the
    obligations o f each participant and the procedures for disbursing funds together with
    any standard conditions for development cooperation that the individual DP may
    have. The DPs agree to keep such general conditions to a minimum.

8 ANTI-CORRUPTION

8.1 The Government and DPs agree that corruption undermines good governance and
    wastes scarce resources. The GoG and DPs intend to cooperate closely in order to
    ensure transparency, accountability andprobity inthe use ofpublic resources.

9 TERMINATION

9.1 Any differences or controversy that arise inrelation to the MDBS shouldbe settled by
   means o f dialogue and consultation between DPs and the GoG. The GoG and each
   DP will promptly consult with the other participants whenever a DP proposes to
    suspend or terminate, in whole or in part, support to the GPRS. If a DP invokes
   remedial measures or if support from a DP i s no longer available, the GoG will
   promptly review and make necessary revisions to the Program, in consultation with
   the other DPs, to ensure that the expenditure framework corresponds with the
   available resource envelope.

10 CONTINUATION

10.1    The MDBS represents a substantial shift in terms o f DP policy dialogue with the
        GoG, as well as DP co-ordination. DPs and the GoG undertake to expand and
       improve the arrangements established for 2003 in pursuit o f the principles in
        Sections 2 and 3.

                                                                                     Annex 4
                                                                                   Page 1o f 7


          ANNEX4: BILATERALDPSAND THE EUROPEAN               COMMISSION-MDBS

  ArrangementbetweenGovernmentof Ghana andBilateralDPs andthe European
                              Commission25    - (10 April Draft)

MDBS POLICYMATRIX FOR 2003

1. For the calendar year 2003, the Bilateral DPs and EUwill focus on five key reform
    areas considered critical for the successful and efficient implementation o f the GPRS.
    These areas are: public finance, the budget process, decentralisation, public sector
    reform and governance. These areas derive from the dialogue that has been pursued
    over the last year in the context o f the Mini-Consultative Group meetings and the
    National Economic Dialogue. For these areas, a policy matrix is set out below and
    will be used as the basis o f dialogue between the Government andparticipating DPs.
    A subset o fthe policy matrix will be defined as triggers. Attainment o f these triggers
    will determine the performance payment (see below).

2. Whenprogress has beenachieved inthese central areas, the DPsmay want to focus in
    greater detail on specific sector issues in areas such as health, education, agriculture,
    roads, private sector and energy. This will facilitate harmonizationwith the PRSC and
    GPRSperformance assessment frameworks.

DISBURSEMENT MECHANISM FORTHE BILATERALDPSAND EU

3. The following i s the basic disbursement mechanism that will be employed. However,
    DPsmayhave variations intheir respective approaches to disbursement that would be
    definedbytheir bilateral agreements andbe made knownto all partner signatories.

4. MDBS bilateral DPs and the EU will deliver two tranches annually: 1) a base
    payment in the first quarter (2nd quarter in 2003); and, 2) a performance payment in
    the third quarter. While individual DPs will require some flexibility, it is intended
    that the split between the performance tranche and the base tranche will be on a 50/50
    basis. In2003, there will be two parts to the performance payment (a) public finance
    management       and   (b) governance       (including   public    sector    reform  and
    decentralization). These two parts will be allocated on a 50hO basis.

5. Disbursement of the base payment will be determined by a positive outcome o f the
    annual IMFPRGFreview inthe year previous to the Ghana budget execution year.

6. For the performance payment in2003, disbursement o f either part o f the performance
    payment will be made upon satisfactory assessment o f achievement o f all six triggers.
    The disbursement may be made at a later stage, no later than the end o f the fiscal




25African Development Bank, Canada, Denmark, EuropeanUnion, Germany, The Netherlands,
Switzerland, UnitedKingdom

                                                                                 Annex 4
                                                                              Page 2 o f 7

    year, provided triggers are satisfactorily fulfilled and the individual development
    partners are able to accommodate such delay.

    Installments will be deposited in a foreign exchange account in the name o f the
    Government held at the Bank o f Ghana. Within 48 hours the Bank o f Ghana will
    credit the Cedi equivalent (using the Central Bank (buying) exchange rate on the date
    o f `purchase') to the Central TreasuryAccount and will be used as budgetrevenue. In
    the event interest accrues on the foreign exchange account, this will be added to the
    Central Treasury Account.

    The Bank o f Ghana will immediately acknowledge receipt o f the foreign exchange
    funds, inwriting, to the respective DP and the Ministry of Finance. The Ministryo f
    Finance will acknowledge receipt o f the Cedi equivalent on its Central Treasury
    Account, in writing, to the respective DPs, copied to the Chair o f the MDBS DP
    group.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FUND

9. DPs recognize that the Government may require a flexible and responsive technical
    assistance (TA), which i s not available in public institutions or ongoing projects to
    support reforms and review processes required to implement the GPRS. The GoG
    and DPs believe that these needs could be met by a pooled funding arrangement that
    would allow the GoG to identify, procure, budget, monitor and evaluate TA. While
    not all DPs can contribute to the fund, it is expected that a percentage o f the total
    Budgetary Support will be used to support priority actions for the successful and
    efficient implementation o f the GPRS. Thereafter, the percentage will be determined
    annually, based on performance and mutually agreed TA needs. This mechanism
    should ideally lead to all TA being programmed and budgeted like any other
    resources regardless o f the source o f funds.

10. Everyattempt will be made to planthe use o fthe pooled TA with other DPs unable to
    participate in the pooling o f resources but also supporting the GPRS to ensure that
    planning o f TA is undertaken in a harmonized manner and avoid duplication o f
    resources.

DIALOGUE AND REPORTING

11.Regular dialogue betweenthe signatories to the Programme is essential for continued
    DP commitment to the Programme.           In order to keep all DPs informed, regular
    dialogue will be throughthe quarterly Mini-Consultative Group Meetings.

12. However, for purposes o f this programme, substantive discussions would take place
   twice a year. The first MDBS assessment will be conducted 17-27 June 2003. This
   would be undertakenthrough a sub-group o f the Mini-Consultative Group, chaired by
   the Minister o f Finance, and including key representatives o f the Government andthe
   MDBS DPs (including DP observers).            The GoG and DPs will produce regular

                                                                                  Annex 4
                                                                                Page 3 o f 7

     monitoring reports-to inform the policy dialogue. The reports will include the
     following:


1REPORTING                                                                   I RESPONSIBLE   1
 Quarterly DP-reports to the Government on disbursement (programme, sector DPs
 and project) andprojections o f disbursements for the next two quarters
 Quarterly reports on expenditures against the budget and on a set o f macro- GoG
 economic indicators
 A report onprogress onthe policymatrix andtriggers                            GoG
 Annual report (inMay) onprogress on the implementationo f the GPRS           ~GoG

 TIMETABLE

                     EVENT
                     IMF PRGF expected to make first disbursement following board approval.
                     IMF and Bank board endorse the GPRS.
                     MDBS First Disbursementtied to the approval of the PRGF
                     GoG (NDPC) produce the first annual assessment of the GPRS



                     MDBSASSESSMENT GOGANDDPS:
                                           BY


                     a) Assess progress against 2003 triggers
                     b) Take decision onperformance tranche
                     c) Agree matrix and triggers for 2004
                     d) DPs agreeprocessfor harmonizationofthe two arrangements.
                     e)  Policy Dialogue basedon the reports set our above
                     Chair o f MDBSDP Group passes from DFID
                     PRGF FirstReview
 December

 ASSESSMENT

 13. Annually, ajoint assessment between GoG and DPs will be undertaken to scrutinise:

     0   the quarterly and annual reports produced by the Government o f Ghana as
         specified inthe section on `Dialogue andReporting';
     0   the assessment by the Government of the triggers and indicators specified in the
         policy matrix, as stipulated above; and
     0   (from 2004) activities fundedbythe Technical Assistance Fund.

 14. The 2003 Assessment will be carried out (tentative dates) 16-27 June by ajoint team
     comprising representatives from GoG and DPs (including the World Bank).

                                                                                   Annex 4
                                                                                Page 4 o f 7

Audit

15. The following audit arrangements will be established:

    0  The Ghana Audit Service (GAS) carries out an independent annual external audit
       o f the Government Accounts. The annual audit report by the GAS shall be
       presented to MDBS DPs as soon as it becomes available.
    0  Inthe event that GAS is unable to deliver their ambitious target to reduce the time
       lag between the end o f the fiscal year and the availability o f the audit report, the
       Accountant General may be asked to commission an external audit to produce a
       timelier audit o fthe Government accounts.
    0  Inthe event this is required, GAS will contract assistance from an internationally
       recognized audit company. The MDBS DPs would finance this audit. The terms
       o f reference for this selected external audit and a shortlist o f audit companies
       would bejointly prepared and agreed by the GoG, GAS andthe MDBS DPs. The
       GoG andthe MDBS DPs would endorse the selection o f auditors.

The audit reports will be discussed as part o f the annual review mechanism.

LEAD PARTNERS

16. The chair o f the D P N D B S group rotates on an annual basis. (DFID i s currently the
   chair). Duringthe design o f the MDBS programme certain DPs have been identified
   to co-ordinate discussions on the areas covered in the policy matrix. This practical
   distribution of the workload will be useful during the MDBS Assessment in June.
   GoG and DPs should explore whether the concept o f lead partners can be useful in
   takingforward MDBS andthe wider development agenda inGhana.



 AREAS FOR        GoGAPPRO\'AL       DPsAPPROVAL                       ISSVES
 AGREEMEKT

                                                                                                          Annex 4
                                                                                                      Page 5 of 7



          (DRAFTMDBSBILATERALAND EUPOLICYMATRIXFOR2003 (10THAPRIL, 2003)
          THE 12TRIGGERS TO DERTERMINEDISBURSEMENTOF THE PERFORMANCE
          TRANCHE ARE INITALICSAND ARE NUMBERED)


          Public finance management
          Overall objective: improve financial management


      OBJECTIVE                  TRIGGERITARGET2003                   VERIFICATION                  SUBSEQUENTYEARS
BPEMSimplemented        I.A computer basedfinancial            PUF.VARP ProgressReports      BPEMS roll-out to all MDAs
inall ministries        management information system                                        Maintenancearrangements in
                        operational on apilot basis: MoF and                                 place.
                        CAGD.
Improvedquality and     2. Monthlyfinancial reports            Reportssubmitted              Shorterperiodof submission,
usefulness of financial (commitments and expenditures)                                       100%coverageonce BPEMSin
reports producedby      produced, reconciled with theBOGwithin                               place
CAGD                    8 weeks.
Transparencyand         3. Procurement Bill laid before        Dateof gazettenotification    PublicProcurementBoard
value for money in      Parliament                                                           established;
public expenditure                                                                           Training planbeingimplemented
                                                                                             Transparency of largeprocurement
                                                                                             deals.
Improvedextemaland      Reducednumber of overdueextemal         31 reports for Parliamentare Furtherreductionintime-lag;
intemal auditing        audit reports andreducedtime lag in     overdue.The auditreport on   follow-up fromParliamentary
controls                submission of the MDA annual auditto   MDAs for 2000 hasjust been    discussion
                        Parliament                              submittedto Parliament('1 8
                                                               months).
                        Following the approvalofthe regulatory                               Implementationactionplanon
                        frameworkbill, an actionplan (staffing                               course
                        andtraining) for internalauditinghas
                        beendevelopedand costed.

Overall financial       Medium-TermAction Planfor financial    Planandbudget                 ImplementationMedium-Term
managementimproved      managementreformsaccepted, costed                                    Action Planon course
                        and integratedinto budget
                                                                                             Presentationofthe budget
                        Following approvalofthe Financial                                    statement to Parliament brought
                        Administrationbill, atrainingplanis     Dateof gazettenotification   forward.
                        costedandintegratedinto budget                                       Training planimplemented

                                                                                                                    Annex 4
                                                                                                                 Page 6 of7

            Translation of the GPRS into the Budget

OBJECTIVE                                                       VERIFICATION                      SCBSEQUENTYEARS
Total budget is           4. Shipfrom 2002 to 2003              2002 and 2003 budget Statements   Futurebudgetsconsistentwith stated
consistentwith the        discretionaly budget broad sector                                       Governmentpriorities
expenditurepriorities      allocations is consistent with the
outlinedinthe GPRS.        GPRS                                                                   Governmentpriorities increasingly
                           2003 budget is consistentwith                                          determinedthroughparticipationand
                           GPRSpriorities                                                         consultativeprocesses.
                           5. Budgeted Poverty Reduction        BudgetStatement                   2003 actual expenditures for Items3 and4
                          Expenditure of GoG (including                                           (GOG andDP) for healthandeducation
                          HIPC) increasesover the 21.7%                                           match the allocationinthe budget.
                          of the total Government                                                 Increaseinthe percentageof funds for
                          Expenditure in 2002.                                                    socialand economic servicesallocatedto
                                                                                                  the most deprivedareas.
The budget is             Methodologydevelopedto ensure        Reportson DP flows producedby      2004 (and subsequentyears) budgets
comprehensivei.e.         that all donor flows are properly    ADMU.                              captureincreasedlevelsof fundingand
GOGbudget captures        capturedandexpendituresare                                              expenditures[IGF, subsidiesandDP
all Government            reflectedinthe budget                                                   funds]
activitiesand all sources
of funds
MTEF simplified and       Methodologydevelopedto               MediumTermAction Plan              2004 MTEF budgetbasedon asimplified
extended                  simplify MTEF to focus on             implementationreports.            methodologyandincorporatingitem 1and
                          outputs ratherthan activitiesand                                        2 expenditure.
                          to ensurethat items 1 and2 are
                          fully allocatedto objectives and
                          outputs.
Regular M&E of GPRS       6. Annual Review of the GPRS         Report Submitted                   Measuresof quality and timeliness and
implementation            implementation conducted by                                             feedinginto GPRS policy.
                          MEPRC

                          GRPS M&E systemimplemented



            Public Sector Reform

OBJECTWE                 TRIGGER~ARGET 2003                   VERIFICATION                       SUBSEQUENTYEARS
Efficiency and service   7. .Census ofpublic sector           Evidenceofreport                   Payreform strategydevelopedandpayroll
delivery of civil        employees completed.                                                    updatedon the basisofthe census.
service improved.                                                                                Right-sizingof the public sector is
                         8. IndependentReview of Public       Evidenceofreport andcomments       progressingas planned
                         Sector Reform considered by the      from steering
                         steering committee                   Committee                          Cost ofredeploymentplans inthebudget
                                                                                                 andplanimplementedaccordingto plan.
                         9.Developpolicy to encourage         Evidenceof Policy documents
                         deployment of teachers and health    from respectiveMinistries.         AEP benefitsandcosts ofreassignment
                         workers to remote and rural                                             includedinthebudget.
                         areas

Overallleadership        Recommendationsfrom Public           Recommendationsofthe review        Public Sector Reformrefocusedand
andmanagementof          Sector reformreview programs         will be discussedat Cabinet level. accelerated.
Public Sector Reform     basis for policy statement.

                                                                                                                   Annex 4
                                                                                                              Page 7 of 7


            Decentralization
            Overall Objective: Improved Local Government Service Delivery


OBJECTIVE                                                                                         SUBSEQUENTYEARS
Establishment of a      IO.Local Government Service Bill laid    Dateof gazette notification      Priority activitiesbeingimplemented
decentralization        before Parliament                                                         inasystematicandcoordinated
policy framework to                                                                               manner
improveservice          CompletedComprehensiveAction plan
delivery.               for decentralization(including fiscal                                     Implementationof Action Plan
                        reform endorsed) by submittedto Cabinet
                        by MLGRD
Translate GPRS          MediumTermDevelopmentPlans and           NDPC M&E studyreport.            Compositebudgetspreparedby
priorities into plans   Annual District Action Plansare                                           Districts anddisaggregatedbudgets
and budgetsat           compliantwith GPRS guidelinesand                                          providedbyMDAsto regionaland
District level.         priorities.                                                               district stakeholders.
                                                                 Improveduseofbudget
                                                                 actuals in2002 comparedwith
                                                                 2001.
                                                                                                  Relationshipandresponsibilities
Streamliningcapacity    JointGoGand DP reviewto co-ordinate      Recommendationsof Review
                                                                                                  betweencentralGovernmentandwith
building at local       local levelcapacitybuilding initiatives  Published.
                                                                                                  regionalanddistrict levelbodiesare
levels.                                                                                           rationalizedand enforced.




            Governance
            Overall Objective: Improved Accountability


OBJECTIVE                  TRIGGE~ARGET        2003             VERIFICATION
Improvedtransparency        1 1. Freedom of information Bill    Draft Bill                        Implementationof Act
and accountability         submitted to Cabiner bl' AG
                                                                                                  Whistle-blower bill submitted to
                           GoG make public GPRS reviews                                          parliament
Improvedoperational         12.Real increase in the GoG         2003 budget statement             Same trigger
efficiency of key          budget allocation ro good
institutionsdealingwith    governance statutor). bodies (for                                      Increaseinfundingandor efficiency
governanceand              example, CHRAJ, Audit Service,                                         of the Judiciary.
corruption                 ElectoralCommission, Office of
                           Parliament and the Media
                           Commission                                                             Measuresfor improving
                           One fast track court set up in each                                    implementationandeffectiveness
                           region by June 2003.                 Courtssitting
                                                                                                  Approval ofthe Codeof Ethics26by
                           Establishmentofthe Office of                                           Cabinet (expected secondhalfof2003)
                           Accountabiliry                       Postsfilled

ImprovedParliamentary      Parliamentary committees (Finance    Proposalsubmitted                 Implementationof the plan.
oversightof public         and Public Accounts) to submit
finance                    proposal for TA to the PUFMARP
                           Secretariat.




            26 Draft completed, featuring guidance on gifts and conflicts o f interest for Ministers and Political
            Employees.

                                                                                                                Annex 5
                                                                                                           Page 1of 2

         ANNEX5: EXPENDITURE                ACCOUNTABILITYASSESSMENT ACTION PLAN( U P )
                                                                                    AND
                                                         (January 2003)

      INDICATORACTIONSTOSTRESGTHEN                                               PROGRESSTO DATE ACTLON ON           PLANSAND
                                    FROMAGREEDACTION                               INDICATEDIMPROVEMEhTS(OUTCOMES)
                                   PLANS~~AND   TIME HORIZON
                                             (S/M2*'
BUDGET
FORMULATION
Compositionof budget entity      Definition of institutionalunits    I1
                                to be covered by the general                 A review of Govemment accounts inthe banking
                                Go\,emment sector (S)                        systemis underway. Progressneededindefining
                                                                             institutional unitsthat go into (i) central
                                                                             Govemment (e.g., subventedagencies, PURC,
                                                                             State EnterpriseCommission), (ii)     subnational
                                                                             levels, and(iii) on including fiscal andquasi-fiscal
                                                                             activities(e.g., utility subsidies, studentloansby
                                                                             SSNIT, rural extensionservicesby CocoaBoard).

Limitations to use ofoff-       NIA
budget transactions                                                          Government activitiesfunded to a significant extent
                                                                             through special funds (Roads, Energy, Oil
                                                                             exploration,DACF, and GETF) andeducationand
                                                                             healthfees plus some subventedagencieshave
                                                                             substantial own revenueresources30.
Reliability o fbudgetas         NIA                                          In2002, there were considerabledeviations inthe
guideto outtum-level                                                         compositionof expenditure, particularlyon the
                                                                             wage bill. New cash management system
                                                                             underpinnedby quarterlyexpenditure ceilings
                                                                             introducedinearly2003. Commitmentcontrolis
                                                                             also beingenhanced, especially over the wage bill.
Dataon donor financing          Improvereportingon donor             I1      Problemswith the reliability, periodicity and
                                activities(M)                                timeliness of datareportedby MDAs anddonors.
                                                                             MoF has preparedactionplanto enforce
                                                                             compliance. Dataare improvedfor health,but
                                                                             remainweak for education, agricultureand road
                                                                             sectors.
Classificationofbudget          Developanew chart of                 FI      New Chart of Accountswas adoptedin late 2002. It
transactions                    accounts(S)                                  will allow classificationof budget dataon an
                                                                             administrative,economic and(with an appropriate
                                                                             bridge table) functionalbasis.
                                ImplementBPEMSinMoF,                 I1      Implementationinitiated at MoF andCAGD in
                                CAGD and key ministries (S).                 early 2003. Roll-outduring 2003 to Accra sitesof
                                Complete BPEMS                               the ministriesofhealth; education; androadsand
                                implementation(M).                           transport (coveringabout 65 percentoftotal
                                                                             primary expenditure).
Identification ofpoverty        Create unit inthe MOF to            FI       The unit is inplace andoperational.
reducingexpenditures            develop estimateso f actual
                                poverty-reducingexpenditure
                                (SI




      2' Action plans were agreed between the Government, the IMF, and World Bank.
     28  S = short term, i.e., action that is expected to be completed inone year. M= medium term, i.e., action
     that is expected to be completed in2-3 years.
     29  Progress to date should include: short description of progress and improvements; note degree of
      implementation, Le., whether implementationhas been initiated (11), is not yet started (NS), or is complete
     (FI, for fully implemented).
     30  Estimated to represent between 3 percent and 10percent o f total expenditures.

                                                                                                Annex 5
                                                                                             Page 2 o f 2

     INDICATOR                ACTIONS TO STREYGTHEN                  PROGRESSTODATE ACTION PLAYSAND
                                                                                         ON
                                FROM  AGREEDACTION                     INDICATEDIMPROVEMENTS      (OUTCOMES)
                              PLANS2'AND TLME H O W N
                                        (S/M**'
                            Establishclassificationsystem   FI  Poverty and HIPC AccountingManualadoptedin
                            to track povertyspendingusing       May 2002. Systemis inplaceandproducesreports.
                            GPRS and budget classification      Currentlyexcludesdonor-financedexpenditure.
                            (SI
Quality of multi-year       Rejuvenationof the MTEF (M)     I1  MTEF usedfor costingof GPRS andpreparationof
expenditure projections                                         2003 budget. METF unit movedinto the Budget
                                                                Division Unit.Current MTEF containstoo many
                                                                activitiesandneedsto be standardized.Processto
                                                                simplify MTEF launchedandto bemade effective
                                                                in2004.
BUDGETEXECUTION

Level ofpayment arrears    Enforcecompliancewith            I1  Improvementof controlsnecessary, especiallyas
                            regulationson commitmentsto         regardscapitalexpenditure. OperatingManualto
                            controlbetter expenditurepath       strengthenthe commitment control systemto be
                            andarrears (S)                      made effectiveby MoF by Mid-March 2003. Audit
                                                                of 2002 arrearsexpectedby mid-2003.
Quality of intemal audit    Reformedandaugmented            I1  Existingintemal audit inCAGD andsome MDAs
                            intemalaudit capacitywith           requiressignificant upgrading. Cabinet approval of
                            clear guidelinesandconsistent       law to strengthenthe intemalaudit functions(e.g.,
                           methodology(S)                       establishmentof aCentralInternalAudit Agency)
                                                                expectedby mid-March 2003.
Use of trackingsurveys      Conduct PETS (M)                FI  PETS ineducationandhealthavailable.
                                                                Beneficiaryassessmentof the agricultureextension
                                                                servicesinthe pipeline.
Quality of fiscalhanking    Reviewandimprovestructure       FI
datareconciliation          of Governmentbank accounts          Monthly reconciliationbetweenCAGD and BOG

                            (SI                                 inplacesince July 2002.Reconciliationwill be
                                                                facilitatedby the further rationalizationofbank
                                                                accounts(see item 1above).

                            EstablishHIPC sub-account(S)    FI  Account establishedin2001.

BUDGETREPORTING

Timelinessof intemalbudget  MeetGhanaianbudget law          I1  Fully reconciledreports issuedwithin 4-6 weeks.
reports                     regulationsonreporting(M)           Authorities seekingto reducethis to 4 weeks as
                                                                requiredby law.
Classificationusedfor       Developcomprehensive            I1  New chart of accountsinplace, but developmentof
budgertracking              functionalclassification(both       bridgetable will berequiredto producereports
                            domestic and externally             with functionalbreakdown. As reportedin4 above,
                            financed expenditures)for           dataon extemalfinancingis still problematic.
                            within year reporting(S)
Timelinessof accounts       CAGD presents set of annual     FI
closure                     public accountsandfinancial         In2002, CAGD succeededinpresentingaset of
                            statements to the Auditor           accountsandfinancial statements for the previous
                            Generalwithin statutory3-           year, basedon accountingdatafrom histreasuries,
                           months after the endof year          by end-March. Expectedto complyagain this year.
                            (no timeframe)
Timelinessof final audited  StrengthenAuditor-General           Legalrequirement is 6 monthsfrom the end of the
accounts                    department (S)                      year Auditor Generalworking to eliminatebacklog.
                                                                Final auditedaccountsfor 2000 were sent to
                                                                parliamentinSeptember 2002.Accounts for 2001
                                                                 still pending.

                                                                                        Annex 6
                                                                                     Page 1o f 5

                   ANNEX6: GHANA         PUBLIC FINANCIAL     MANAGEMENT


A. BACKGROUND

        The Country Financial Accountability Assessment ("CFAA") performed on Ghana
during 2001 raised several recommendations to limit the level o f fiduciary risk, specifically as
regards public financial management.

        Although an update o f the CFAA i s underway for completion by June 2003, inputson the
current state o fpublic financial management and fiduciary risk were required to inform the PRSC
design. To this end, duringPRSC appraisal an evaluation o f the current status o fpublic financial
management was carried out. In addition to technical discussions and in situ verification o f
systems, the evaluation took in consideration several recent reports available on financial
management and fiduciary issues (DFID, CIDA, HIPC, PUFMARP Progress Report February
2003 and others). Interviews also took place with the BPEMS team, the PUFMARP coordinator
and DFIDand the resident representative o f the IMF.

        Moreover, a well attended workshop was held with all key role players in the Public
Financial Management Reform Program. The workshop analyzed key elements o f similar
reforms, with specific reference to the South African experience. Valuable ideas were shared and
common ground was established for a high-level benchmark o f the key building blocks o f the
Public Financial Management Reform Program ("PUFMARP"). The workshop confirmed that
the key buildingblocks o f typical public financial management reforms are being addressed inthe
PUFMARP and discussed potential policy and implementation issues for each building block.
Agreement was reached on the policy and implementation issues raised and this led to the
identification o f areas that were addressed in the PRSC policy matrix. Agreement was also
reached on the urgency to approve the Central Internal Audit Agency Bill duringPRSC-1 so that
its implementation can be launched, after passed into law, later in2003.

B. MAINFINDINGS

        Ghana has made progress in the key areas o f concem regarding public financial
management as identified in CFAA 2001. The key areas identified during the CFAA 2001 for
improvement are summarized inthe table below and progress noted duringthe PRSC appraisal i s
reflected in the last column. The discussions during the mission also confinned that there i s
shared vision and high level o f support among key stakeholders for the implementation of
PUFMARPreforms.

     Inspiteoftheencouragingdevelopments, thefollowing areasofpublicfinancialmanagement
need further attention or strengthening:

     e  Current practices to account for donor funding and report on aid-in-kind are not
        satisfactory. It was agreed that the Government will develop and implement measures to
        improve management and monitoring o f donor funding. Objective i s to improve the
        comprehensiveness o f the budget. These measures could for example include specific
        disclosure requirements for aid-in-kind.

        Most o f the implementation issues discussed during appraisal referred to capacity
        constraints. The Government has begun to develop capacity building plans for CAGD
        and MoFEP. It was agreed to consolidate this work into a comprehensive capacity

                                                                                                  Annex 6
                                                                                              Page 2 of 5

          building plan to address PFM requirements at all relevant levels. This is aimed at
          reducing the risk o f failure o fPUFMARP.

      0   Cabinet approval o f the Central Internal Audit Agency Bill needs to be accelerated. It
          was agreed that this would be considered an action to be met prior to Board consideration
          o f the PRSC. As the implementation o f the new legislation i s likely to yield first results
          not before the second half o f 2004, the Government will develop and put inplace interim
          measures to strengthen the intemal audit function.

     0    Ownership for the new BPEMS, in particular at the level o f CAGD i s a matter o f
          concern.   BPEMS design and implementation appears to be dominated by external
          consultants; buy-inand participation o f the relevant technical levels should be improved
          to ensure success o f BPEMS implementation. It was agreed that the core accounting
          (revenue, budget and fund requisitions, other expenditures under the control o f CAGD)
          for the Consolidated Fund be transferred to the new BPEMS before the end o f 2004.
          This would ensure that the new system receives the required attention at the relevant
          technical levels.

C. CONCLUSION

The level o f fiduciary risk remains high, but i s mitigated by visible progress made, the
commitment of the Government to the PFM reforms noted in the CFAA and PRSC and the
continued highvisibility and support for PFMreforms at a political level. Sufficient ground exist
for PRSC disbursement.
                     CFAA 2001- KeyAreas, RecommendationsandProgress

K E Y AREAS OF CONCERN                                   PROGRESS DETERMINEDDLUNG
                                                         PRSCA P P W S a

RepulatoryFramework

A legislative framework        Pass new procurement     A new Procurement Bill has been submitted to
existed, but lackedmodem       legislation              Parliament for approval.
PFM standards, were not
complied with and sanctions    Clarify intemal audit    A new Central Intemal Audit Agency Billhas
were not enforced.             arrangements             been submitted to Cabinet for approval. This will
                                                        improve independenceo fthe function and
                                                         introduce new standards o f practice.

                              Enforce sanctions          Whilst on mission, it was widely reported inthe
                                                        press that the previous Minister o f Finance was
                                                        jailed for causing financial loss to the state. This
                                                         concem will be further addressedwith the
                                                         enactment o f the new FinancialAdministration
                                                        Bill.
                               MediumTerm

                              Revise and maintain the   A new FinancialAdministration Bill hasbeen
                              legislative framework      submittedto Parliament for approval. It defines
                                                        the powers and duties o fthe MoFEP, MoFEP
                                                         Chief Director, CAGD and spending officers. It
                                                         also provides that the CAGD should prepare
                                                         annual financial statements in accordance with
                                                        generally accepted public sector accounting
                                                         standards.

                                                                                                     Annex 6
                                                                                                  Page 3 o f 5
IKEY AREAS OF CONCERR           K E Y RECOMMENDATIOSS       PROGRESSDETERVIYEDDURIXG
                                                            PRSC APPRAISAL

                                Short Term

 The linkages between           Improvedconsultation on     The MTEFi s establishedin all MDA's. The
 policies, planning, budgeting  MTEFsector priorities       GPRS has progressively provided a basis for
 and resource utilization                                   linkingpolicy, planning andbudget formulation.
 required improvement, to                                   The MTEFhas also integrated recurrent and
 provide a basis for improved                               investment expenditure and there is greater
 accountability for service                                 recognition o f donor expenditure inthe budget.
 delivery and financial                                     Evidence o f material extra budgetary expenditure
 management.                                                i s limited. For 2003 the large unallocated amount
                                                            previously provided for control bythe MoF and
                                                            usedto fund unbudgeteditems has been
                                                            eliminated.
                                Capacity buildingin
                                MDA's and Parliament on     MTEFIGPRS training given but constrainedby
                                MTEF                        pressure to produce annual budgets.

                                Improverevenue
                                forecasting                 Revenue forecasting has improved; further work is
                                                            required.
                                Formal mid-year budget
                                reviews                     Significant variations between actual and
                                                            budgeted expenditure remain a problem.

                                Medium Term
                                                            Some work has been done on improving the
                                Further transparency in the classification system as part o f the BPEMS
                                budget process and          implementation. Further work i s necessaryto
                                improvement inthe quality   facilitate a comprehensive picture o f Govemment
                                o f performance indicators  expenditure. The HIPC poverty tracking
                                                            mechanism has been successfully implemented as
                                                            an interimmonitoring tool prior to introduction o f
                                                            BPEMS. This provides a useful first step to
                                                            monitoring pro-poor expenditure. However,
                                                            detailed benefit incidence analysis is requiredto
                                                            assess whether the expenditure tracked does
                                                            actually impact on the poor as expected.
1Expenditure Control            Short Term

 Several problems were          BPEMS implemented as        BPEMS will commence operations in2003 but
 identified that contributed to soon as possible            will operate only in CAGD and a few MDA's.
 a weak expenditure control                                 The initial impact during2003 is likely to be fairly
 system:                                                    limited untilthe system stabilises.
 - Lack ofeffective
     commitment control         Improve expenditure         Commencing2003 MDA's prepare annual cash
 - Paperbased accounting        control and more timely     plans, quarterly expenditure plans and monthly
     systemrestricts analysis   expenditure reporting.      cash forecasts. CAGD transfer cash on a monthly
     and production o f                                     basis to newly opened MDA Bank Accounts
     management information                                 within approved quarterly ceilings. The quarterly
 - Incomplete and                                           expenditure plan forms the basis to limit cash
     outstanding                                            drawings.
     reconciliation
 - Asset andliability                                       At the aggregate level summary statements o f
     registerspoorly                                        monthly and cumulative statements o f government
     maintained                                             revenues and expenditures are produced bythe
 - Financialmanagement                                      CAGD within 6 weeks o f the end o f a month.
     skills baseinadequate

                                                                                                    Annex 6
                                                                                                Page4 o f 5

KEY AREAS OF CONCERY           KEY RECOMMENDATIONS        PROGRESSDETERmED DURING
                                                          PRSCA P P M s U

     and poorlyremunerated                                These statements currently reflect only transaction
     Ineffective intemal audit                            data processed through Treasunes, but still
     Late submission o f                                  excludes all MDA project expenditure financed by
     financial statements                                 loans and grants Penodic attempts are made by
                                                          MoF to incorporate this expenditure but no routine
                                                          accounting mechanism currently exists. Similar
                                                          issues relatingto non-reporting o f intemally
                                                          generated funds exists In some MDAs (MoH)
                                                          some additional more comprehensive reporting i s
                                                          undertaken although this is not pro\en timely,
                                                          accurate or complete
                               MediumTerm

                               MDA's financial            The implementation o f BPEMS and the approval
                               management policies and    o fthe new Financial Administration Bill, currently
                               proceduresto be reviewed,  before Parliament, should provide the basis to
                               manuals to be produced.    proceed with this.

                               Staff training to be       Development o f a comprehensive capacity
                               provided, professional     building plan i s included inPRSC-2.
                               standards to be introduced
                               and professional capacity
                               created

                               Improve intemal audit      The establishment o f a new Central Intemal Audit
                                                          Agency and units in MDA's should pave the way
                                                          for improvement inthis regard. Consideration
                                                          should be given to the improvement o f the current
                                                          control systems, since it may still take some time
                                                          to enact and implement the proposedsolution.
Accounting& Financial          Short Term
Reporting

A number o fproblems           M D N C A G D systems      Conceptual design o f the BPEMS ledger has been
existed, including:            shouldbe streamlined and   subjected to a brief overview. One ledger for the
Lack o f explicit national     focused on providing       whole o f govemment is foreseen, with sub ledgers
accounting standards.          accurate, timely and       for MDA's, etc. The Consolidated Fundand other
InadequateMDA accounting       complete information on    funds will also be accountedfor inthe system.
and reporting.                 transactions               The core ledger is supported by funding,
Absence o f audited                                       commitment, order andpayment controls. A
consolidated accounts.                                    Public BudgetingModule i s currentlybeing
                                                          tested. Adequate reporting facilities appearsto be
                                                          inplace.

                                                          There remains some technical accounting system
                                                          design issuesto be resolved, e.g. payroll and
                                                          revenue integration. There are some remaining
                                                          technical issues that i s being addressed.

                                                          Efforts have been made during 2002 to reduce the
                                                          number o fbank accounts but excessive numbers
                                                          still remain. From 2003 one main expenditure
                                                          Bank Account will be opened for each MDA.This
                                                          will beginto address the problembut further
                                                          extensive rationalisation is required.

                                                                                                 Annex 6
                                                                                             Page 5 o f 5

KEY AREAS OF CONCERN        KEY RECOMMENDATIONS          PROGRESSDETERMINEDDURISG
                                                         PRSCAPPRAISAL

                                                         The biggest concem, ho\ve\er, i s the apparent lack
                                                         ifinternal ownership for the project, especially at
                                                         he le\ el of CAGD. Inadequateparticipation may
                                                         stem from a lack o f manpower and delegation on
                                                         he CAGD, but it is recommended that these be
                                                         3ddressed and the core accounting (rebenue,
                                                         ndget, fundrequisitions, other expenditure
                                                         x-ocessedby CAGD and cash balances) o f the
                                                         Zonsolidated Fund be implemented on BPEMS in
                                                         PRSC 2.

                            Chart o f accounts should be 4 new chart of accounts havebeendesigned and
                            harmonised (MTEF,            implemented. Standardization in MTEFand
                            BPEMS & CAGD system)         ilignment with GFS i s included in PRSC 2.

                            Improvethe lag in            4nnual financial statements for the Consolidated
                            submission o f annual        Fundsubmitted to the Auditor-General inearly
                            financial statements.        May 2003, five weeks later than statutory
                                                         timeframe (end-March).
                            MediumTerm

                            BPEMS should integrate       The system design allows for this. Inventories are
                            all paper based systems,     however excluded from the initial scope o f
                            payroll, cash management,    implementation.
                            commitment control,
                            inventory, etc.

                            National accounting          The new FA Bill i s prescriptive inthis regard and
                            standards should be          this will also be influencedbythe recent issuing of
                            established and accounting   International Public Sector Accounting Standards.
                            system designed to comply
IndependentControls and     Short Term
Monitoring

New Audit Law (2000)        Improve audit planning,      During the PRSC appraisal this was not covered,
enacted including greater   move from transactional to   but will be assessed inthe CFAA 2003.
independenceand authority.  more analytical and
New law createsAudit        comprehensive auditing
Service Board & MDA Audit
Implementation Committees   Professionalize and quality
New Audit Law does not      control extemal auditor
improve cooperation between inputs
AG and PAC

                            MediumTerm

                            Improve PAC budget
                            resources

                            Publiciseperformance
                            audit reports when
                            submitted to PAC to enable
                            investigation and resolution
                            of issues arising.

                                                                                          Annex 7
                                                                                       Page 1of 3



      ANNEX7: GHANA        CPAR 2003 SUMMARYOFKEYFINDINGS RECOMMENDATIONS
                                       -                                AND



 A. BACKGROUND

        The procurement bill was submitted to Parliament early 2003. In March 2003, the
 Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC) invited interested persons to send views and
 comments to PAC. The Coordinator of procurement reforms inthe MoFEP submitted to PAC the
 CPAR mission's comments on the draft bill. Bank staff attended, as an observer, the PAC
meetingdiscussing comments on the bill and the impression i s that MPs are keen to have the Bill
enacted.

        However, the Bill faces opposition. The ThirdWorldNetwork (TWN), a local NGO, has
been campaigning for the suspension of the bill. TWN opposes WTO, WB and IMFpolicies and
feels the Bill i s being forced to Ghanaians.Their mainpoint i s that the bill would open market to
the detriment o f Ghanaian firms. Meetings have been held with TWN to explain that: (i) bill  the
has gone through adequate stakeholder consultations; (ii)the market i s already opened by
economic liberalization; (iii) bill allows margin o f preference for Ghanaian manufacturers
                                 the
and contractors; and (iv) the bill would bringvalue to Ghana regarding use of public funds and
reductiono f corruption. TWN agrees with the key objectives o f the bill and the value for money it
will bring to Ghana. However, in the PAC meeting, TWN made a passionate plea in its
presentation that the Bill be suspended and subjected to more consultation. Vested interests of
public officials and private firms benefitingfrom the current discretionary practice should not be
ruled out as sponsoring opposition to the billand working to have it suspended.

B. MAINFINDINGS

        General assessment: Ghana's public procurement practices are assessed as inefficient.
Public procurement i s carried out ina discretionary manner, poses a highriskto public funds and
contributes substantially to corruption. The economy i s paying a heavy premium for this
inefficiency (e.g. in one ministry, it was reported that it procures goods 40% more expensively
than the private organizations). Donor projects, particularly World Bank projects, are safe only on
contracts subject to prior review and for projects using specially prepared procurement
procedures manuals (projects signed after 2000). Existing procurement regulations are unclear
and not "mandatory", have many loopholes and contain outdated practices. Examples of outdated
practices include telephone requests for quotations, use of merit points for evaluating works
contracts, use o f engineer estimates as cut-off point for contract awards, excessive use o f sole
source and selective tendering by use of same firms repetitively. Works contracts are subject to
Tender Boardrules butnot contracts for goods and services.

        Staffing of procurement functions: The public procurement function suffers from not
being adequately profiled in the public service. In a majority of procuring entities the
procurement function i s diffused in administrative functions. There i s a general lack of adequate
numbers of procurement proficient personnel to man procurement units. Procurement
professionals trained inthe public sector are often lost to the private sector. There are difficulties
of attracting andretainingprocurement professionals due to poor remuneration and lack of proper
job allocation.

        ProcurementPlanning and RecordKeeping: Out ofthe 24 institutions assessed, none
of them had procurement plans except for World Bank-financed projects. Procurement planning

                                                                                         Annex 7
                                                                                      Page 2 o f 3

i s also very inefficient in World Bank-financed projects. Procurement record keeping i s also
poor. Out of the 24 institutions assessed 17, or 65 percent, were found to have poorly kept
procurement records.

          Oversight: Oversight of the fiduciary management is a central function of the MoFEP
and aims at ensuring proper use and accounting of public resources by all public entities.
However, oversight by the MoFEP i s weak. Government does not conduct procurement audits
and internal audit i s almost non-existent. The Audit Service covers a fairly low portion of
financial and procurement transactions due to a combination of constraints, key ones being
inadequate staffing (there are only 6 qualified accounts in the Service), inadequate operating
budgetand unclear procurement rules against whichto audit transactions.

          Contract administration,a major concern: Government is paying a heavy premium
through poor contract management. Over 50 percent of the 290 contracts assessedexperience cost
overruns (often more than 30 percent above original contract price) and problems such as
excessive and uncontrolled variations or extensions, contracts being signed on basis of
incomplete designs and flawed specifications, improper application of fluctuation clauses to the
disadvantage o f Government, and contractors being paid in full against partially completed
contracts. Non-performing contracts arerarely terminated intime nor damages applied.

          Supplier's Credits: Government continues to source and enter into contracts under the
supplier's credits that do not achieve value for money. Foreign suppliers, credit firms or
contractors offer the credits to fill the `needs gap' of MDAs. The contracts reviewed can at best
be described as unfavorable to the government. A value for money (VFM) assessment by Crown
i s a rescue and firefighting operation, which does not ensure economical final products.

          Capacity of the private sector: The capacity of local contractors to handle large
contracts is constrained by lack of adequate and easily accessible credit, proper management
shlls, fiscal discipline, and equipment The local engineering firms have limited capacity (in
terms of numbers, size of firms and competencies) to undertake large contracts. However unlike
contractors, they benefit from taking subcontracts, by forming associations and joint ventures
with large foreign firms. The result is that some contracts are awarded politically to local firms
without adequate capacity to perform. There i s evidence o f many poorly done roads due to the
inadequate capacity of contractors enhancedbypoor oversight by public officials.

         Corruption:There is a general perception that corruption is widespread in the public
service. Government and the civil society have on-going initiatives to fight corruption but these
have proven to take time to result in tangible impacts.         More efforts are needed to create
awareness of anti-corruption measures. The current Government assumedpower inJanuary 2001
and its President emphasizes the GPRS stated policy o f "zero tolerance on corruption". On the
basis of this policy direction, it i s envisaged that Government would be committed to improving
the efficiency o f the public sector and to implementing the Action Plan and other
recommendations inthe CPAR.

         `Green Procurement': The Environmental Protection Agency has programs on
environmental education and practice notes on waste management, water management, industry,
use o f pesticides/chemicals and protection o f natural habitat. However the EPA does not have a
specific negative list o f goods and works that should not be procured as they harm the
environment.

                                                                                           Annex 7
                                                                                         Page 3 of 3

C. CONCLUSION

        The CPAR Action Plan i s anchored on a three-pronged strategy:

            The passing o f the Public Procurement Bill and its implementation. These are key to
            establishing a credible legal framework for public procurement and to putting in
            place sound procurement practices. The Bill will regulate procurement practice,
            ensure it i s carried out in a structured manner, instead o f a discretionary manner and
            reduce procurement-related corruption. The Bill places accountability                and
            responsibility for procurement on public officials to whom Government has placed
            responsibility for carrying out public programs and use o f funds. The procurement
            law will harmonize government and donor procedures and reduce cost o f transactions
            and areas o f conflict. The law will also enable private sector and civil society provide
            oversight on public procurement. Capacity buildingat all levels will be a necessity.


       0    Improvements in financial management (by way o f implementation CFAA
            recommendations) are key to establishing sound base for oversight on public
            procurement practices. Improving procurement alone cannot ensure proper use o f
            public funds or remove fiduciary risks.

            Strengthening o f the internal audit and Ghana's supreme Audit Service. Audit i s the
            most effective way o f monitoring compliance with agreed procedures on financial
            and procurement transactions. Sanctions taken against erring officials are powerful
            deterrents to malpractice. The Ministry o f Finance should pay particular attention to
            establishing a credible internal audit and to provide adequate funds to the Audit
            Service to make it perform effectively in order to inform Ghanaians in a timely
            manner how their taxes are spent.

        The CPAR Action Plan recommends enacting the Bill recently submitted to Parliament,
establishing the institutions provided in the Bill and requiring that procuring entities begin
complying with the new law. The PRSC supports this process by emphasizing the needto ensure
timely compliance withplanned actions.

        The country's economic, social and political situation i s assessed as fair for transparent
and competitive public procurement.         While the level o f fiduciary risk remains high, it i s
mitigated by recent progress and stated commitment o f the Government to procurement reforms.
Therefore, Ghana figures inthe range o f countries considered suitable for a PRSC.

                                                                                                         Annex 8
                                                                                                      Page 1of 2


                              ANNEX8: POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT ANALYSIS
                                   ISSUES IMPACTANALYSIS
                                            AND BACKGROUND


ACTION INPOLICY                                                EXISTINGWORK OR PLmSED            ISDICATIVE
MATRIX                                                         WORK, BY WHOM                     STAKEHOLDEW FOR
                                                                                                 POLICYIMPLEMENTA
Implementing electricity                                       CEED study on lifeline tariff     Regulator (PURC)
tariff adjustment           tariff and financial viability)    under various scenarios, looked   Utilities (ECG)
mechanism that keeps        coherent and if so, under what     at the impact o f various tariff  MinistryofFinance and
sector viable while         conditions, what risks?            changes on compound               Economic Planning, NDPC,
protecting the poor through How effective i s the lifeline in  households. It was completed      MinistryofEnergy
a lifeline tariff           reaching the poor? At what         in2001 and requires updating,     Consumer Groups
                            direct and indirect costs          expansion to other customer      NGOsor service providers
                            (access)?                          groups, consultation, and in-     extending electricity
                            Where are the price sensitive      depth analysis of expenditures    Development partners
                            points, and are people starting to as a percentage o f income
                            disconnect or turntowards other    levels.
                            fuels?                             Planned PSIA with Bank
                            Expenditures on electricity by     support.
                            income group, as a percentage o f
                            income.
                            How much do those not
                            connected to the systemhave to
                            spendfor energy (traditional
                            fuels)?
Adjust petroleum prices     Looking forward, what are the      Simple background analysis        Regulator (PURC)
towards economic levels to  mediumterm effect ofpetroleum      (using GLSS data) from the        Tema OilRefinery
keep sector viable, whde    price increases on the poor? D o   Bank of Ghana. Needs to be        MinistryofFinance and
cross-subsidizing infavor   assumptions about which fuels      deepened, perhaps with the        Economic Planning, NDPC,
o f the poor                are used by the poor holdtrue?     assistance o f quantitative       Ministryof Energy
                            What are the multiplier effects?   modeling and qualitative focus    Industryandconsumer
                            How do the different               groups, reviewed and checked      groups (oil dependent
                            stakeholders within the system     against survey data.              businesses)
                            benefit or lose?                   PlannedPSIA with Bank             Oil companies
                                                               support.                          Development partners
Enhance incentive           More analysis andreview o f        Broader sector ESW being          MinistryofAgriculture
structure o f cocoa sub-    existing analysis is requiredfor   launched on the constraints and   Farmer/producer
sector                      PRSC-2 to assess whether other     opportunities to expand           organizations
                            measuresmay be critical in         demand within region and for      Development partners
                            improving rural incomes inan       international markets. This       (including FAO)
                            equitable manner (both             will include (i)agro-processing   Universityof Ghana
                            geographically and among           for the non-tradeable sector (ii)
                            different size farmers)            expanding exports o f non-
                                                               traditional agricultural
                                                               products; (iii)support for
                                                               developing agro-business and
                                                               marketing.
                                                               DFIDsponsored PSIA planned
                                                               on the extent to which GPRS
                                                               policies for agricultural
                                                               transformation will generate
                                                               benefits to smallholder/
                                                               subsistence farmers.

                                                                                                            Annex 8
                                                                                                        Page2 of2

                             POTENTIALISSUESEXISTINGWORK OR PLANNED                                 NDICATIVE
                                                                  WORK, BY WHOM                     STAKEHOLDERS FOR
                                                                                                    POLICY IMPLEMENTA
 Improve efficiency and      What are the income levels o f       Socioeconomic survey o f          Ministry o f Education
equity o f financing         those who receive scholarships       students receiving tertiary       Student Unions
education with attention to  at present compared to the           education has been completed.     Tertiary facilities
greater poverty impact:      income levels o f those who do       Prior to PRSC-2 the sector will   Others TBD
Revise cost recovery         not (% leakage)? Can those           assess whether further analysis
policy for tertiary          currently receiving scholarships     i s required to revise the cost
education which favors       afford to pay? H o w does            recovery policy for tertiary
access by the poor           admmistration o f such a system      education.
                             currently function? H o w could
                             itbe improved?
Adopt exemptions policy      H o w i s such a policy likely to be Agreement on scope o f            Ministry o f HealtWGhana
for maternal delivery        implemented? H o w will the          proposed PSIA, TORS,during        Health Service
                             different stakeholders react         Ghana Health Summit inJune,       Health care providers
                             duringimplementation? What           2003.                             NGOs
                             are the intended, and unintended                                       Development partners
                             consequences o f this reform?                                          Ministry o f Finance
Decentralize Government:     H o w will decentralization affect   GTZ will finance a PSIA on        Ministry o fLocal
                             the quality o f services delivered   pro-poor decentralization, to be  Government
                             at the local level to the poor?      completed by October, 2003.       Others to be determined
                             H o w will different stakeholders    Terms o f reference to be         Developmentpartners
                             be likely to react? What risks       circulated by June 2003.          Ministryo f Finance
                             exist? (Institutional and
                             stakeholder analysis and
                             consultation)
Reformpublic sector pay      What are the indirect impacts o f    Extensive social impact           Civil service organizations
and employment policies      the public sector wage bill?         assessment by KPMGcarried         DevelopmentPartners
aiming at a public sector    What i s the actual impact, ex-      out o f the rightsizing (national Ministry o f Finance
size that releases resources post, o n those involved inthe       institutional renewal) process    Others TBD
for fightingpoverty          alternative employment program       and direct impacts already
                             (possible tracer study o f those     completed.
                             retrenched)?
Strengthen formulation to    For PRSC-2 and PRSC-3, public        No expenditure tracking studies   Local, district, central
improve expenditure          expenditure reviews, and             to date, but public expenditure   government representatives
programming inline with      expenditure tracking could           reviews are carried out           Service providers at the
CPRS priorities              answer questions on the              annually. Citizens report cards   facility level
                             percentage o f funding that          are being piloted in3 districts   Ministryo fFinance
                             reaches different groups, levels     inGhana, and expenditure          Developmentpartners
                             o f government (how much             tracking will be incorporated     Others TBD
                             leakage there is). This can be       into future PRSCs.
                             complemented by citizen report
                             cards or other tools for
                             community-level monitoring.
Change invalue added tax     What are the costs and benefits      Analysis was carried out o f the  Ministry o f Finance
                             o f this tax, both directly, and     direct impact o f this tax.       Small businesses and others
                             indirectly? H o w does it increase   However, o f interest would       who must pay the tax
                             the total tax burden o n large       also be the second-order          Development partners
                             businesses, small businesses, and    effects, and the effects o n      (including IMF)
                             individuals? H o w has it worked     specific groups such as small
                             its way through the economy?         businesses.
                             Has it producedthe intended
                             benefits? Ifso, where have those
                             fiscal savings been allocated?

                                                                                               Annex 9
                                                                                           Page 1of 1


                           ANNEX9: POVERTYAND SOCIALIMPACTANALYSIS
                          SUMMARY LISTOFPRIORITIZED STUDIES FORPRSC-2


STUDY                                              TIMETABLE       IMPLEMENTATION       ARRANGEMENTS

I.Growth,Income,Employment
 1.Energy Sector Strategyand the Poor:          End-2003 Phase 1 With World Bank financing, Ministry o f
Issue: Evaluate the impact on the poor o f      (second phase    Energy will provide overall coordination,
current energy sector policies, with a focus on March 2003)      with core stakeholder committee
recent changes intariffpolicies. Both direct                     including NDPC, Ministry o f Finance and
as well as indirect effects will be studied.                     Economic Planning, regulator, utilities
Giventhe demand from GOGstakeholders to                          and consumer groups to comment on
cover both electricity andpetroleum, the                         TORs and on draft reports. PURC
analysis i s likely to be sequenced, with an                     (regulator) to serve as key technical
initial phase inDecember, 2003 and a second                      counterpart.
phase by March, 2003; the decision on which
elements to sequence first will result from
consultation with GOGauthorities and
alignment with ongoing Energy Sector
Strategy ESW, which will cover key
institutional changes including restructuring
andprivatization.

2. Economic Transformation policy for the       End-2003         With DFIDfinancing, NDPCwill
agricultural sector and the small-holder                         coordinate study, but should be anchored
/subsistencefarmer. Issue: Assess the impact                     inthe Ministry ofAgriculture for
o f GPRS policies for the agricultural sector                    feedback on scope o f work, draft reports.
and the extent to which they generate benefits                   Bank staff will comment on TORs and
for small-holder/ subsistence farmers.                           draft reports.
11. ImprovingService Delivery for Human
Development
3. Proposed Changesto Health Care and the       End-2003, if     This PSIA would be managedbythe team
Poor: Issue: Assess the impact on the poor o f  confirmed inJune managing the SWAP inthe Ministry o f
recent changes to the health care system:                        HealtWGhana HealthService with
Main issues to be agreed among stakeholders                      technical oversight and advice from the
inthe forthcoming healthsummitinthe                              development partners.
context o f the SWAP inJune, 2003. It is
expected that such work will coincide with
areas contained inthe PRSC (e.g. impact o f
exemption policy for deliveries).

111.ImprovingGovernanceandPublic
Sector Management
4. Pro-Poor Decentralization. Issue:                             GTZ is revising GOGterms o freference
Analyze how the proposedan ongoing              End- 2003        for this work. I s expected to circulate
decentralization process will affect the poor.                   revised terms o freference to stakeholders
GTZKfW currently inthe process o f                               byend-May, finalized TORSby end-June.
consulting various stakeholders to refine scope                  Bank and sectoral specialists will
o f work.                                                        comment on terms of reference, draft and
                                                                 interimreports as necessary.

                                                                                                                        Annex 10
                                                                                                                      Page 1of 2

                                         Ghana at a glance
                                                                      Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                  Saharan        Low-
                                                           Ghana      Africa     income        Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population, mid-year(millions)                                20.4      674        2,511                      Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                            270       470         430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                               5.5      317        1,069

Average annual growth, 199642
Population(%)                                                  2.6       2.5         1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                 2.9       2.6         2.3       GNI                                  Gross
                                                                                               Per                                 primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199642)                                           capita                            nrollment
Poverty (% of populationbelownationalpovefiy line)
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                          40         32          31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                               60         47          59                             1
Infant mortality(per 1,000live births)                         59         91          76
Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder 5)                       25                                   Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)            64         55          76
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                             26         37          37
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-age population)           79         78          96             -Ghana
    Male                                                       82         85         103                       Low-income group
                                                                                                         ~

    Female                                                     76         72          88

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1982       1992     2001         2002         Economicratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                 4.0         6.4       5.3         6.4
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                      3.4        12.8     26.6         19.7
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                  3.3        17.2     43.6         40.6                           Trade
Gross domesticsavings/GDP                          3.7         1.3       7.0         7.0
Gross nationalsavingdGDP                           3.5         3.6     21.3         20.3

Current account balance/GDP                        4.8        -9.2      -5.3         0.6
Interest payments/GDP                              0.7         1.2       7.8         6.3
Total debt/GDP                                    36.4        70.1    117.5        108.1
Total debt service/exports                         15.5       20.8      17.0        12.8
Presentvalue of debtlGDP                                                78.4        71.2                             I

Presentvalue of debtlexports                                          169.8        165.0
                                                                                                                Indebtedness
                                      1982-92 199242         2001      2002      200246       I
(average annual growth)                                                                                   -
GDP                                       4.9      4.2         4.2       4.5         5.0                         Ghana
GDP per capita                            1.5       1.5        1.6       1.9         2.3                         Low-incomeorou~
Exports of goods and services             6.8      9.5        -1.3      -1.5         2.7


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                  1982        1992     2001         2002        Growth of investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                                 c
Agriculture                                       57.3        44.8      35.2        35.4       20

Industry                                           6.2        17.4      25.2        25.4        i o

   Manufacturing                                   3.6         9.3       9.2         9.3         0

Services                                          36.4        37.8      38.9        39.2      -10
                                                                                              -20
Privateconsumption                                89.8        86.6      75.2        75.2      -30
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       6.5        12.1      17.8        17.8      I
Imports of goods and services                      3.0        28.8      64.4        52.7                   -GDI           +GDP             I

                                               1982-92 199242          2001         2002     1
(average annualgrowth)                                                                          Growth of exports and imports (X)

Agriculture                                        2.1         3.8       3.7         4.1                                                  I
Industry                                           7.1         3.7       3.0          3.1      40

   Manufacturing                                   7.3         1.2       7.6          7.0      30

Services                                           7.8         4.6       5.1          5.3      20
                                                                                               i o
Privateconsumption                                 4.9         5.2       4.1          5.0       0
General governmentconsumption                      4.5         4.5       2.3          3.0    -io
Gross domestic investment                          7.1         1.9       4.0          5.0                 -Exports         -O'lmports
Importsof goods and services                       7.4        13.7      10.0         -6.8


Note: 2002 data are preliminaryestimates. Group data are through 2001.
*The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. Ifdata are missing, the diamond will
    be incomplete.

                                                                                                           Annex 10
                                                                                                         Page 2 o f 2


                                                                                                                Ghana

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1982   1992   2001    2002
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumerprices                          22.3   10.0   32.9    14.8
ImplicitGDP deflator                    27.9   12.6   34.6    22.8

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                           6.0  18.5   25.1    21.9               97    98     99        00   01
Current budget balance                   -3.2   4.2     5.1     1.1    1
Overallsurplus/deficit                         -6.1    -9.0    -6.8             -GDPdeflator          -CPI


TRADE
                                        1982   1992   2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                           Exportand import levels(US$ mill.)
Total exports(fob)                              986   1,867  2,064                                                    I
 Cocoa                                          302    380     463
 Timber                                         114    618     689
 Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                           1,589  3.781   4,099
 Food                                           38
 Fueland energy                                 162    257     275
 Capitalgoods                                   277

Export price index (1995=100)                    85     78      81             96   97    98     99     W    01

Import price index (1995=100)                   103     99      96                      ~xports           lmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        83     79      85

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1982   1992   2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                           Current account balanceto GDP (YO)
Exportsof goods and services             711  1,105  2,419   2,593       2 7
Importsof goods and services             813  1,845  3,433   3,304        0

Resourcebalance                         -103   -740  -1,014   -711        2
                                                                         4
Net income                                -89  -106   -131    -153       -6

Net currenttransfers                       -1   255    644     842        8
                                                                        -10

Current account balance                 -192   -592   -283      38      -12
                                                                        -14
Financingitems (net)                      191   467    362     248      -16

Changes in net reserves                     1   124     -79   -286      -18


Memo:
Reservesincludinggold /US$ millions)     314    368    431     679
Conversionrate (DEC, local/US$)         21.4  437.0 7,175.5 7,690.0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1982   1992   2001    2002
(US$millions)                                                            Composition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed     1,469 4,499  6,225   6,591
  IBRD                                    131    87
  IDA                                     125 1,631                                    F: 193GCi@@

Total debt service                        111   235    415     337
  IBRD                                     16    20       5       5
  IDA                                       1    14      26     79

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                           0    215    429     316
  Officialcreditors                       44    383     198    161
  Privatecreditors                         13     3     -53     -49
  Foreigndirect investment                       22      88     50
  Portfolioequity                                0

World Bank program
  Commitments                              0    297     190    200       A IBRD
                                                                           -                              E Bilateral
                                                                                                           -
  Disbursements                           24    170                      B- IDA    D- Other multilateral  F Private
  Principalrepayments                      8     15      18     53       C-IMF                            G Short-term
                                                                                                           -
  Netflows                                 16   155
  Interestpayments                         9     19      12     31
  Net transfers                            7    136

DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                            5/14/03

                                                                                       Annex 11
                                                                                     Page 1of 3

                              ANNEX11:KEYECONOMIC         INDICATORS



                                       Actual                      Estimate         Projected
                 lndicaior    1997    I998        1999     2000     2001     2002    2003     2004    2005

National accounts
(as % GDP at current
 market prices)

Gross domesticproduct          100.0        100.0   100.0    100.0     100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0
  Agriculturea                  35.8         36.0    35.8     35.2      35.2    35.4    34.9     34.4   34.6
  Industrya                     25.7         25.3    25.4     25.4      25.2    25.4    25.7     26.0   26.0
  Services"                     38.6         38.7    38.8     39.3      39.6    39.2    39.4     39.6   39.4

Total Consumption               95.8         89.8    96.3     96.1      93.0    93.0    89.9     88.5   88.3
Gross domestic fixed            23.8         22.4    21.5     24.0      26.6    19.7    23.0     24.2   24.6
investment
  Governmentinvestment          12.4         11.3      9.8      9.2     12.8     6.1      9.4    10.4    10.5
  Private investment            11.4         11.1    11.7     14.8      13.8    13.6     13.6    13.8    14.1
  (includes increasein
  stocks)
Exports(GNFS)b                  32.4         33.9    31.9     46.2      43.6    40.6    42.1     42.8   40.8
Imports(GNFS)                   53.0         46.7    49.2     65.9      64.4    52.7     55.8    54.9    52.0

Gross domesticsavings            4.2         10.2      3.7      3.9      7.0     7.0     10.1    11.5    11.7
Gross national savings'          6.9          8.1      7.6    15.6      21.3    20.3    21.2     22.6   23.4

Memorandum items
Gross domesticproduct          6885         7475     7775     5000     5298    6400     6566    7039    7610
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per     4033         4270    4266      2955     3007    3491     3797    4038    4281
capita (US$, Atlas method)

Real annual growthrates
(%, calculatedfrom 1975
 prices)
  Gross domesticproductat      4.2%         4.7%    4.4%     3.7%      4.2%    4.5%     4.7%    5.0%    5.0%
  market prices
  Gross DomesticIncome         4.3%         6.3%    3.1%     3.8%      8.0%    8.3%     8.3%    7.6%    6.0%

Real annual per capita
growthrates (%, calculated
from 1975 prices)
  Gross domesticproduct at     1.5%         2.0%     1.8%     1.2%     1.6%    1.9%     2.1%    2.4%    2.4%
  marketprices
  Total consumption            5.3%         1.8%    3.1%      1.7%     7.1%    4.1%     6.9%    4.5%    3.2%
  Private consumption          5.6%         1.1%    6.4%     -2.5%     9.2%   11.8%   11.9%     7.5%    4.8%

                                                                                             Annex 11
                                                                                           Page2 of 3




                                   KEYECONOMICINDICATORS         (Cont'd)



                 Indicator         1997     1998        1999

Balance of Payments
(US%m)

 Exports (GNFS)b                    2257.8      2559.0    2473.0  2442.1   2419.0   2593.0  2907.1   3192.1   3284.1
    MerchandiseFOB                  1810.2      2091.4    2006.0  1936.0    1867.0  2064.0  23 14.0  2568.0   2656.0
  Imports (GNFS)~                   3808.6      3541.1    3826.0  3388.3   3433.4   3304.0  3895.1   4180.1   4376.6
    MerchandiseFOB                  3041.5      2918.0    3252.0  2759.0   2831.0   2714.0  3169.0   3432.0   3581.0
 Resourcebalance                   -1550.8      -982.1   -1353.0  -946.2   .1014.4  -711.0  -988.0   -988.0  -1092.5
 Net current transfers               476.1        605.8    590.2   587.7    643.9    841.6   880.3    662.0    768.0
 (including official current
  transfers)
 Current account balance           -1147.4       -408.5   -853.0  -419.4    -283.4    37.6  -130.7   -121.1   -129.5
 (after official grants)

 Net private foreign direct           55.3        -10.3     17.6    65.3      88.3     50.0    87.0    100.0     57.0
 investment
 Mediumand Long-term loans (net)     499.9        348.9    126.1    97.0     103.7  -114.8     12.0     56.0     61.0
 Other capital (net, including       497.5        270.3    485.3   134.0      89.1     66.5   -45.0  -120.0     -22.0
 errors and omissions)
 Change inreservesd                  103.7        -69.7    233.1    52.0     -79.0   -286.0  -181.0   -186.0   -173.0

Memorandum items
Resource balance                   -22.5%       -13.1%   -17.4%   -18.9%   -19.1%   -11.1%  -15.0%   -14.0%   -14.4%
Real annual growth rates
( YR75 prices)
 Merchandiseexports                 -0.7%        16.3%     8.9%     1.O%    -1.3%    -1.5%    2.7%     4.6%     4.0%
 (FOB)
 Merchandise imports                30.5%        15.9%     9.6%   -26.0%    10.0%    -6.8%    7.6%    13.2%     5.4%
 ( C W

Publicfinance
(as % of GDP at current
 market prices)'
 Current revenues                     18.7         20.5     18.0     19.8     25.1     21.1    26.2     26.7     26.4
 Current expenditures                 16.5         17.3     16.4     18.5     20.0     20.0    20.0     17.5     16.2
 Current account surplus (+)           2.1          3.2      1.6      1.3      5.1      1.1     6.2      9.2     10.2
  or deficit (-)
 Capital expenditure                  12.4         11.3      9.8      9.2     12.8      6.1     9.4     10.3     10.4

                                                                                                                              Annex 11
                                                                                                                              Page3 o f 3




                                                         KEYECONOMIC            INDICATORS           (Cont'd)




                                                                  Actual                             Estimate         Rojected
                   Indicator                    1997             1998         1999         2000        2001    2002    2003    2004    2005

   Monetary indicators
     M2/GDP (at current market                      23.5                23.1      24.0          26.7      26.9    31.4    30.2    30.2   30.2
    prices)
    Growth o f M2 (%)'                             41.9                 28.1       19.8         33.4      48.4    50.0    25.0    18.9   12.5

   Price indices( YR90  =loo)
    Merchandise export price                       116.5               121.2     106.7        102.0       99.7   112.0
     index
     Merchandise import price                      94.0                 88.0      89.5        102.6       95.6    98.4
     index
    Merchandise terms of trade                     123.9               137.7     119.2          99.5     104.2   113.8   114.6   127.0   127.7
    index
    Real exchange rate                             76.2                 82.5      82.9          53.5      52.8    56.0
    (us$/Lcu)g
    Consumer price index                         27.9%                 19.3%     12.4%       25.2%       33.0%  14.8%   26.9%    8.3%    6.0%
    (% growth rate)
    GDP deflator                                  19.5%                17.0%     14.0%       27.2%       34.6%  22.8%   27.6%   13.3%    7.1%
    (% growth rate)



a. IfGDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating t'Data-YR' fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes useo f IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level o f the government to which the data refer.
f. GrowthofM2, excluding foreign currency deposits
g. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase inUS$/LCU denotes appreciation.

                                                                                                                                  Annex 12
                                                                                                                               Page 1o f 1
                                            ANNEX12: KEYSOCIAL INDICATORS

                                                                               Latest single year                   Same regionlincomegroup
                                                                                                                    SubSaharan
                                                                  1970-75             I980-85          1994-00          Africa      Low- income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)                                9.8                12.6             19.3            658.9         2,459.8
  Growth rate (% annual averagefor period)                           2.6                3.2              2.2              2.6            2.0
Urban population(%of population)                                    30.1               32.3              38.4            34.4            31.9
Total fertility rate (births per woman)                              6.6                6.4              4.2              5.2            3.6
POVERTY
(% ofpopulation)
National headcountindex
  Urban headcountindex
  Rural headcountindex
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                                                 310                360              340             470             410
Consumer price index (1995=100)                                       0                                  302              133            140
Food price index (1995=100)                                                              aa              242
INCOMEEONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                                                                               40.7
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)                                                             5.6
Highestquintile (Yoof income or consumption)                                                             46.7
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Publicexpenditure
  Health (% of GDP)                                                                                       1.7             2.4            1.2
  Education(% of GDP)                                                5.8                2.5              4.0              3.6            3.4
  Social security and welfare (% of GDP)
Net primaryschool enrollmentrate
(% of age group)
  Total
     Male
     Female
Access to an improved water source
(% ofpopulation)
  Total                                                                                                   64              55              76
     Urban                                                                                                87              a2              a8
     Rural                                                                                                49              41              70
Immunization rate
(% under 12months)
  Measles                                                                               21                73              53              57
  DPT                                                                                   22                72              46              57
Child malnutrition(% under 5 years)                                                                       25
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
  Total                                                              51                 55                57              47              59
     Male                                                            50                 54                56              46              58
     Female                                                          53                 57                58              47              60
Mortality
  Infant (per 1,000 live births)                                     103                a5                58              91              76
  Under 5 (per 1,000 live births)                                    186                157              112              162            115
  Adult (15-59)
     Male (per 1,000 population)                                     459                400              334              504            294
     Female (per 1,000 population)                                   377                334              294              459            261
    Maternal(per 100,000 live births)                                                                    590
    Birthsattendedby skilled healthstaff (%)                                            A7                44
  Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollment ratios exceeding 100 indicate discrepancies between the estimates of
  school-agepopulationand reportedenrollment data

                                                                                            Annex 13
                                                                                          Page 1of 1




                                 ANNEX13: KEYEXPOSURE            INDICATORS


                                                  Actual                Projected
             Indicator          1997  1998  1999    2000    2001   2002     2003    2004   2005

Total debt outstandingand        6196 5987   8544    8485   6977   7136      6880   6801   6703
disbursed(TDO) (US$m)"

Netdisbursements(US$m)a            26  224    39        95    79     98       116    128    142

Total debt service (TDS)          578  622    587     528    482    416       389    369    347
(US$m)a

Debtanddebt service indicators
(%)
 TDOIXGSb                       274.4 234.0 345.5    345.5  286.8  273.7    241.0   221.3  203.4
 TDOIGDP                         90.0  80.1 109.9    169.7  131.5  112.4     94.3    82.1   74.3
 TDSIXGS                         23.5 22.1   21.1    23.0    18.9   18.4      15.6   13.4   13.1
 ConcessionaliTDO                62.5  69.5  51.0     53.3   67.1   67.9     72.8    76.4   80.5

IBRD exposureindicators (%)
 IBRDDSIpublic DS                 2.7  0.9    2.3      1.1    1.o    1.3       1.1    0.9    0.0
 Preferredcreditor DSipublic     50.9 41.3   34.3     30.9   40.8   35.8     40.3    49.1   55.7
 DS (%)`
 IBRDDSIXGS                       0.7  0.2    0.5      0.2    0.2    0.2       0.1    0.1    0.0
 IBRD TDO (Us$mId                 30   27     18
   Ofwhichpresentvalueof
   guarantees(USSm)
 Share o f IBRD portfolio (%)
 IDA TDO (US$m)d                 2507 2701   2894    3064   3222    3390     3427

9
9

                                                                                            Annex 15
                                                                                           Page 1of 5




                                                                                 EXTERNAL
                                                                                 RELATIONS
                     Public Information Notice                                    DEPARTMENT




Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 03/62                             International Monetary Fund

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                                                700 lgthStreet, NW

May 16,2003                                                          Washington, D. C. 20431 USA



              IMF Concludes 2003 Article IV Consultationwith Ghana


On May 9, 2003, the Executive Board of the InternationalMonetary Fund (IMF) concludedthe
Article IV consultation with Ghana.31

Background

Overall economic performance in Ghana during 2002 was mixed. Twelve-month inflation
continued to fall, from 21 percent at end-2001 (downfrom a peak of 42 percent in March2001),
to 15.2 percent at end-2002. Larger-than-normalinflows of foreign exchange from the pre-
financing of the cocoa crop contributed to a further improvement in gross international reserves
to nearly 2 months of imports, despite a shortfall in external donor support. The stimulus from an
improved terms of trade (relating to higher cocoa and gold prices, only partly offset by higher unit
costs for imported petroleum), and a pick up in credit to the private sector, suggest that the
targeted 4% percent real growth rate for the economy may have been achieved. Good progress
was also made on certain parts of the structural reform agenda, including in the areas of tax
administration, financial sector reform, the move to full cost recovery for electricity and water, and
governance.

Budget execution, however, was adversely affected by a large overrun on the civil service wage
bill, non-implementationof the budget's key revenue measure, delays in moving forward with the
divestiture program, and a shortfall in donor financing (partly policy-related).These were only
partly offset by gains from improved tax administration and cutbacks in the capital spending, with
the result that recourse to net domestic financing was 3.3 percent of GDP higher than the



31UnderArticle IV of the IMF's Articles of Agreement,the IMF holds bilateraldiscussionswith
members, usuallyeveryyear. A staff team visits the country,collects economicand financial
information, and discusseswith officials the country's economic developmentsand policies.On return
to headquarters,the staff preparesa report,which forms the basisfor discussion by the Executive
Board.At the conclusion of the discussion,the ManagingDirector, as Chairmanof the Board,
summarizesthe views of ExecutiveDirectors,and this summary is transmittedto the country's
authorities.

                                                                                           Annex 15
                                                                                         Page 2 o f 5
budgeted target of 0.3 percent of GDP, even after full application of an adjustmentfor shortfalls in
external support.

Non-implementationof Ghana's petroleum pricing formula during 2002 led to substantial losses
(estimatedat 2 percentof GDP) by the state-owned Tema Oil Refinery. In mid-January 2003 the
authorities raised petroleum prices by 95 percent on average, following an assumption by the
government of almost 3 percent of GDP in debts of the refinery. Altogether, the slippages
increasedthe stock of domestic government debt to nearly 29 percent of GDP at end-2002, or
8% percent of GDP higherthan envisaged at the time of the 2002 budget.

Driven by higher-than-expected government borrowing and, late in 2002, by a surge in cocoa
revenues, broad money growth reached 50 percent by year's end. In response,the central bank
stepped up open market operations in the fourth quarter and raised its prime interest rate by
3 percentagepoint (to 27.5 percent) in early 2003. The cedi depreciated against the US. dollar
by 14.7 percent in the twelve months ended December 2002, and the real effective exchange
rate remained broadly stable during the year.

In February 2003, the Government of Ghanafinalized and publishedthe Ghana Poverty
Reduction Strategy (GPRS), which sets out the country's broad policy agenda for 2003-2005.
The authoritiesare generating support for this strategy from the IMF, in the form of a new three-
year arrangement under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(see Press Release No. 03/66), as well as from Ghana's other development partners.

ExecutiveBoard Assessment

Directorsnoted that, following an initial strong consolidationeffort, Ghana's macroeconomic
performancein 2002 had been mixed. Progresswas made in rebuildingforeign reserves and
implementingstructural reforms, particularly in the areas of tax administration, financial sector
reform, and governance. Weaknesses in budget execution and parastatalfinances-
compounded by a shortfall in donor financing-had, however, resulted in a further substantial rise
in the stock of domestic debt, and had complicated the implementation of monetary policy.

Against this background,Directors welcomed the authorities' program for 2003-05 and recent
actions to strengthen publicfinances as an appropriate response to restore the strong reform
momentum that will continueto be needed to deliver on the ambitious goals of Ghana's Poverty
Reduction Strategy. The GPRS has benefited from extensive consultation with civil society, and
providesa sound framework for achieving the government'sobjectives of raising privatesector-
led growth and further reducing poverty. Directorsstressed that, to attain these objectives,the
authoritieswill need to make a sustained effort to achieve and maintainmacroeconomic stability,
in particularthrough effective budget implementation,and press ahead with their structural reform
agenda, including in the areas of financial sector reform and publicenterprise restructuring.

Directorsobserved that the resurgence in inflation in early 2003 was most likely the result of a
one-time realignmentof prices in responseto larger-than-anticipatedadjustments in petroleum
prices. The achievement of single-digit inflationwill neverthelessrequirestrong action in the
period ahead. Directorswelcomed, in this regard, the tightening of monetary policy by the Bank
of Ghana, and urged continued readiness to take additional measures as necessary. They also
underscoredthe important role that strict fiscal disciplinewill haveto play in supportingthe
disinflationeffort.

                                                                                                    Annex 15
                                                                                                  Page 3 o f 5
As regards fiscal policy, Directors commended the government's effortsto boost the country's
budgetaryresourcesthrough lasting tax measures.Together with continued external support and
further improvements in tax administration, the enhanced revenue base should make it possible
to achieve the spending priorities set out in the GPRS. Directorswelcomed the attention paid by
the authorities to the social impact of the recent tax measures, but a few Directorscautionedthat
they will further increase the complexity of Ghana'stax structure and might fuel inflationary
pressures.

Directorswere encouraged by the authorities'renewed commitmentto strengthening expenditure
discipline, but viewed with concern the continued rise in the civil servicewage bill. Giventhe
need to containfuture increases in the wage bill, Directors urged the authoritiesto embark on a
fundamental reform of the civil service, in collaborationwith the World Bank and other donors. In
the immediate period ahead, they stressed that effective public expendituremanagementwill be
key to ensuring that the fiscal aggregates and the composition of spending, with a clear focus on
investment and poverty related expenditures, are realized as programmed.This will require
careful and timely monitoring of budget execution and prompt corrective actions if necessary
while, going forward, further continued efforts to strengthen public expenditure managementwill
be needed.

Directorswelcomed the steps taken to strengthen the finances of the major public enterprises,
including the adjustments to petroleum, electricity, and water pricingto bring them toward full cost
recovery. They urged full implementation of the pricing formulae and encouraged the authorities
to liberalizepetroleum pricing at the appropriatetime. Directorsalso looked forward to rapid
progress on the divestiture of the largest state-owned bank to reinforcethe operation of the
petroleum sector on a commercial basis, and help improvethe overall soundness of the banking
system.

Directorssupported the authorities'structural reform priorities in the agricultureand energy
sectors. They encouraged continued strong efforts to promotetransparency, good governance,
and fight corruption by further strengthening the audit and legal systems. To enhancethe
contribution of the financial sector to private sector development, Directorslooked forward to
early approval of comprehensivefinancial sector legislation, which will also includea new law to
strengthen the fight against money launderingand terroristfinancing. They underscored the
importanceof full implementation of relevant UN resolutions. Directorsencouraged the
authoritiesto adopt timebound action plans for their reforms, includingto secure timely technical
and financial assistance over the medium term. They also highlightedthe importance of carefully
assessing the poverty and social impact of the reform process.

Directorsacknowledged the progress,with technical assistance from the Fund, on improving
Ghana's fiscal and monetarydata. To allow effective surveillance and monitoringof GPRS
outcomes, they encouraged the authoritiesto continue to improve the quality and timeliness of
Ghana's economicstatistics, in particulardata on prices, national accounts, and trade.

 Public information Notices (PINS)are issued, (i) at the request of a member country, followingthe
 conclusion of the Article IV consultationfor countriesseeking to make known the views of the IMFto the
 public. This action is intended to strengthen IMF surveillanceover the economic policiesof member
 countries by increasing the transparencyof the IMF's assessment of these policies;and (ii) following
 policy discussions in the Executive Boardat the decision of the Board.

                                                                                                   Annex 15
                                                                                                  Page 4 of 5



                       Ghana: Selected Economicand FinancialIndicators,1999-2003

                                                 1999      2000     2001          2002            2003
                                                                            Prog. 11     Est.
                                                  (AnnualPercentagechange, unlessotherwise specified)
Nationalincome and prices
 Real GDP                                          4.4       3.7      4.2        4.5      4.5      4.7
 Real GDP per capita                               1.8       1.2      1.6        1.9      1.9      2.1
 NominalGDP                                       19.0      31.9    40.2       23.3     28.3      33.6
 GDP deflator                                     13.9      27.2     34.6      18.0     22.8      27.6
 Consumerprice index (annualaverage)              12.4      25.2     32.9      15.9      14.8     26.9
 Consumerprice index (end of period)              11.8      40.5    21.3       13.0      15.2     22.0

Externalsector
 Exports,f.0.b.                                   -4.1      -3.5     -3.6        7.6     10.6     12.1
 Imports,f.0.b.                                   11.4     -15.2      2.6        7.8     -4.1     16.8
 Export volume                                     8.9       1.o     -1.3        3.7     -1.5      2.7
 Importvolume                                      9.6     -26.0     10.0      11.1      -6.8      7.6
 Terms of trade                                  -13.4     -16.6      4.8        6.9      9.1      0.7
 Nominaleffective exchange rate (avg.)            -9.3     -46.3    -24.0         ...   -11.7       ...
 Realeffective exchange rate (avg.)                0.5     -35.5      0.7         ...    -0.6        ...
 Cedis per US. dollar (avg.)                     2,669    5,431     7,179         ...   7,947        ...

Governmentbudget
 Domestic revenue (excludinggrants)                6.0      42.9     43.5      38.1      27.5     60.3
 Total expenditure                                 9.0      39.6     65.5      34.0       2.4     50.0
   Current expenditure                            13.1      48.9     50.5      22.8      28.8     33.5
   Capital expenditureand net lending              4.1      24.1     95.7      39.4     -38.7     104.1

Money and credit
 Net domestic assets 21                           46.0      49.1     13.5        6.6     14.0      -1.7
   Creditto government21                          38.2      57.7      0.0        1.8     32.6       0.0
   Creditto pubic enterprises2131                  9.0      19.2      9.7        1.9     -9.0       1.5
   Creditto the private sector 2131               24.9      34.4     12.0       17.1     17.7      18.8
 Broad money (excludingforeign currency           19.8      33.4     48.4      25.2      50.0     25.0
   deposits)
 Reservemoney (excludingforeign currency          35.8      52.6     31.3       18.7     42.6     24.5
   deposits)
 Velocity (GDPIend-of-periodbroad money)           5.2       5.1      4.8        4.9      4.1       4.4
 Treasury bill yield (in percent; end of period)  34.2      42.0     28.9         ...    28.2        ...

                                                     (In percentof GDP, unless otherwisespecified)

Investmentand saving
 Gross investment                                 21.5      24.0     26.6      22.3      19.7     23.0
   Private                                        11.7      14.8     13.8       13.1     13.6      13.6
   Public                                          9.8       9.2     12.8        9.2      6.1       9.4
 Gross national saving                             9.9      15.6     21.3       16.3     20.3     21.2
   Private                                         8.3      14.3     16.1       11.6     19.2      14.9
   Public                                          1.6       1.3      5.1        4.7      1.2       6.3

Governmentbudget
 Total revenue                                    16.4      17.7     18.1       18.7     18.0     21.6
 Grants                                            1.7       2.1      6.9        4.2      3.1       4.6
 Total expenditure                                26.2      27.7     32.7      28.4      26.1     29.3
 Overall balance (excludinggrants) 41             -9.8     -10.0    -14.6       -9.7     -8.1      -7.7
 Overall balance (includinggrants) 51             -8.0      -9.7     -9.0       -7.0     -6.8      -3.9
 Domestic primary balance                          0.4       2.6      3.8        3.1      2.0       2.9
 Divestiturereceipts                               0.3       1.2      0.0        0.8      0.0       0.7

                                                                                                       Annex 15
                                                                                                      Page5 o f 5

 Net Domestic Financing                              6.3        8.5     2.3         0.3       4.8       0.0

Externalsector
 Current account balance61                        -11.6        -8.4    -5.3        -6.4       0.6      -1.8
 Externaldebt outstanding                         109.9      169.7    131.5       124.0    112.3      96.4
 External debt service, includingto the Fund         6.8      11.2      8.5         6.8       7.8       6.3
    (in percent of exportsof goods and             21.1       23.0     18.9        15.9      18.4      15.6
       nonfactorservices)
    (in percentof governmentrevenue)               37.5       56.5     34.1        29.4      37.1     24.2

                                                   (In millionsof US. dollars, unless otherwisespecified)

 Current account balance6/                         -895       -419     -283        -393        38     -131
 Overall balanceof payments                        -266       -123        -2       -146        39      -77
 Change in externalarrears (decrease-)               62         27       61           0       -61         0
 Gross internationalreserves(end of period)         317        264      344         629       631      811
    (in months of importsof goods and                1.o        0.9     1.2         2.0       1.9       2.3
      services)

Nominal GDP (in billionsof cedis)              20,580       27,153  38,071     46,875     48,862   65,262

Sources: Ghanaians authorities;and IMF staff estimates and projections.

I / Based on MEFP of 1/31/02(EBS/02/16)
2/ In percent of broad money at the beginning of the period.
3/ Credit from deposit money banksto public enterprises and the privatesector respectively.
4/ Before domestic arrears clearance.
51 After domestic arrears clearance.
61 Includingofficial grants.

                                                                     Annex 16
                                                                    Page 1o f 1

                                           GHANA

                             POVERTY   REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT


                             Timetable ofKey Processing Events

Time taken to prepare the Credit             4 months
Project Prepared by                          World BarWGovemment
Concept Review Meeting                       March2003
ROC Meeting                                  April 2003
OC Meeting                                   April 2003
Appraisal                                    April 2003
Negotiations                                 May 2003
BoardPresentation                            June 2003
Effectiveness                                July 2003
Project Completion                           June 2004


