CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 224 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 28, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
S
CREDIT NUMBER 224 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 28, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 28, 1970, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deltion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Trunk roads" means (i) international trunk roads linking centers of
international importance and crossing international boundaries or terminating at
international ports and (ii) national trunk roads linking nationally important centers,
as listed in the Republic of Kenya's Road Reclassification dated February 1970.
(b)   "Primary roads" means primary roads linking provincially important
centers to each other or to higher class roads, as listed in the Republic of Kenya's
Road Reclassification dated February 1970.
(c)   "Secondary roads" means secondary roads linking locally important
centers to each other, to a more important center or to a higher class road, as
listed in the Republic of Kenya's Road Reclassification of February 1970.
(d)   "Roads Department" means the Roads Department of the Borrower's
Ministry of Works.
(e)   "Understudy Plan" means the plan referred to in Section 8.01 of this
Agreement.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million six hundred thousand
dollars ($12,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree: (i) civil works
included in the Project may be executed, with the agreement of the Association,
by direct departmental labor; (ii) goods and services (other than consultants'
services) in connection with civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and other than civil works executed by direct departmental labor with
the agreement of the Association shall be procured on the basis of local competition
under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969. and in accordance
with, and subject to the provisions set forth in, Schedule 3 ) this Agreement;
and (iii) other goods and services (other than consultants' services) to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in August 1969, and
in accordance with, and subject to the provisions set forth in, Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1975 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 1981 and ending October 1, 2020,
each installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 1990 to
be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, cnd each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound technical, engineering, administrative
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
staff, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to provide qualified personnel for field positions
in the Roads Department the Borrower shall, wherever the Borrower decides to
employ consultants, employ consultants mutually acceptable to the Borrower and
the Association upon terms and conditions mutually acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association.
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower in the administration and operation
of the training center of the Roads Department, the Borrower shall, wherever the
Borrower decides to employ consultants, employ consultants or shall employ
qualified personnel mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association upon
terms and conditions mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
(c)   In order to assist the Borrower in (i) the preparation of specifications
and bidding documents, (ii) the prequalification of contractors and evaluation of
bids, (iii) the implementation of the reorganization of the Roads Department, and
(iv) the carrying out of such other duties and functions connected with the Project
as the Borrower, in consultation with the Association, may determine, the Borrower
shall employ consultants mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association
S


﻿6
upon  terms and conditions mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.03. Except where work is executed by direct departmental labor,
with the agreement of the Association, in carrying out Parts C and D (1) of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ contractors mutually acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association upon terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. For the duration of the Project, the Borrower shall use the
highway maintenance equipment, including spare parts, procured under Part B of
the Project only for the purpose of maintaining trunk roads, primary roads and
secondary roads, except that there may be other minor and temporary uses for
the purpose of maintaining other public roads in conjunction with the maintenance
of the said trunk, primary and secondary roads.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the P:-oject
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, on the basis of the recommendations
in a report by its Public Service Conditions of Service and Remuneration
Commission relating to the recruitment and service policies of its civil service,
prepare and send to the Association for its comments within six months of the
acceptance of the said report by the Borrower a plan for training suitably qualified
Kenyans to fill professional and other technical positions in the Roads Department.
The Borrower shall notify the Association of the date of acceptance by it of the
said report.
(b)   In the event that the report referred to in subparagraph (a) of this
Section is not accepted by the Borrower within six months of the date of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall consult with the Association with a view to
formulating such a training plan.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall review from time to time with the
Association the implementation of the Understudy Plan with a view to agreeing
on further steps to be taken.
Section 4.04. After the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall use
the highway maintenance equipment, including spare parts, procured under Part
B of the Project only for the purpose of maintaining its highway system.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause all its road maintenance, workshop
and training equipment to be adequately maintained and repaired and shall maintain
sufficient and adequate workshops in suitable places for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause its highway system     to be adequately
maintained in accordance with sound engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, staff, services and other resources required
for the purpose.


﻿8
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain facilities adequate
to collect and record, in accordance with appropriate statistical methods and
procedures, such information concerning road traffic, road construction and
maintenance costs as shall be reasonably required for proper planning of
maintenance, improvements and extensions of its highway system.
(b)   The Borrower shall take all measures reasonably necessary to ensure
at all times that the dimensions and axle loads of the vehicles using its highways
do not exceed limits consistent with the design standards of such highways.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall with a view to strengthening the Roads
Department provide or arrange for the provision of qualified personnel in the
numbers set out in Annex A to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Annex
shall be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, to fill the positions and perform the duties set out in the said Annex.
(b)   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall make the appointments to the said positions promptly but in any
event not later than nine months after the date of this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall ensure that the said positions are filled by persons
whose qualifications and experience are mutually acceptable to the Borrower and
the Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
S


﻿9
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at


﻿10
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(i)  The contract for the employment of the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement has been entered into by the
Borrower and the consultants.
(ii)  The Understudy Plan for the appointment of suitably qualified
Kenyans as understudies to the qualified personnel to be provided
under the Project, has been formulated by the Borrower and is
mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 8.02. The date March 31, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. (a) The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.03,
4.04, 4.05 (a), 4.07 (a) and 4.07 (c) of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
a date ten years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
(b)  The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.05 (b) and 4.06
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-four years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time being responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
S


﻿11
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:
Finance
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ Leonard 0. Kibinge
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in          % of Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
I.    Headquarters and field          900,000           100% of foreign
staffing                                          expenditures, ex-
cluding any part
to be financed from
sources other than
the Association
1I.   Equipment and spare            8,000,000          100% of foreign
parts                                             expenditures
III.  Consultants' services:         1,300,000
(a)   for provision of                            100% of foreign
assistance in pre-                          expenditures
qualification and
evaluation of bids
(b)   for other purposes                          85% of total expendi-
tures
IV.   Civil works                     800,000          20% of total expendi-
tures, representing
the estimated foreign
expenditure component
V.    Unallocated                    1,600,000
TOTAL         12,600,000
S


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category III on account of expenditures
incurred after January 1, 1970 in an aggregate amount not exceeding $150,000
equivalent; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
*        in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account
of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,


﻿14
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category IV
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's 1971-75 highway maintenance program
and consists of:
(A)   Provision of qualified personnel (1) to fill key positions in the Roads
Department in accordance with Annex A hereto, and (2) to train Kenyans to fill
said positions;
(B)  The acquisition of road maintenance and workshop equipment,
including spare parts;
(C)   The construction and improvement of 6 regional workshops and all
necessary offices and road maintenance camps;
(D)   (1) The construction of additional training center facilities, and (2)
the acquisition of training equipment; and
(E)   The provision of consultants' services and other staff to train
maintenance personnel at all levels, to introduce cost accounting and management
procedures and to assist with equipment procurement in the Roads Department.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1974.


﻿16
ANNEX A
MINISTRY OF WORKS (ROADS DEPARTMENT)-
POSITIONS TO BE STAFFED
POST                 NUMBER        FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES
A. HEADQUARTERS
1.   Chief Engineer (Roads)           1         To direct and control all
operations of the Roads De-
partment of the Ministry of
Works
2.   Senior Superintending                       To take executive charge,
Engineers                             under the Chief Engineer
(Roads), of a Division of
the Roads Department of the
Ministry of Works special-
izing in one of three main
activities
(a)  Development                 1         Responsible for planning,
engineering design, con-
tract documentation and
supervision of construction
of road and bridge works
(b)  Maintenance                 1         Responsible for all aspects
of organization and super-
vision of the maintenance
of all public roads in-
cluding control of mechanical
equipment, work studies and
methods and inspectorate
(c)  Materials                   1         Responsible for organization
and supervision of the
materials laboratory of the
Ministry of Works including
the execution of a road
research program


﻿17
POST                  NUMBER          FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES
3.    Superintending Engineers                      To take executive charge of
a section of the Roads Depart-
ment of the Ministry of Works
under a Senior Superintending
Engineer
(a)   Planning                     I           Responsible for pre-invest-
ment planning, feasibility
studies, economic assessments
and preliminary engineering
for all road projects, devel-
opment plans and the prepara-
tion of reports and applica-
tions for technical assistance
(b)   Engineering Design           1           Responsible for final
engineering for road and
bridge construction proj-
ects; the preparation
of contract documents,
pre-qualification of
contractors, bid analysis,
and the briefing of con-
sultants
(c)   Construction                 1           Responsible for the super-
vision of road and bridge
construction projects
carried out by contract in-
cluding direction of con-
sultants and financial con-
trol
(d)   Maintenance Pro-             1           Responsible for planning
gramming                                 maintenance programs; re-
sealing, regravelling,
minor improvements and
betterment; preparation
of the road maintenance
estimates


﻿18
POST                 NUMBER         FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES
(e)   Mechanical                 1          Responsible for proper
distribution, utilization
and maintenance of road
maintenance equipment,
spare parts and workshops
(f)   Inspection                 I          Responsible for independent
inspection and assessment
of maintenance activities
of the field organization
(g)   Maintenance                1          Responsible for supervision
of the field organization
including financial control,
administration and execution
of the maintenance program
and analysis of road main-
tenance costs
(h)   Materials                   1         Responsible to the Senior
Superintending Engineer
(Materials) for the exe-
cution of the site investi-
gation, field control, test-
ing and research program of
the materials laboratory
B.    FIELD
4.    Provincial Road Engineers        5          Required to take executive
charge of road maintenance
operations in a Province
under the direction of the
Senior Superintending
Engineer (Maintenance)
5.    Deputy Provincial Road           5          Required to assist the
Engineers                             Provincial Road Engineers
6.   Road Superintendents              5          Required to supervise road
maintenance work under a
Provincial Road Engineer
and to train field staff
in mechanical highway
maintenance


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Contracts for Equipment and Civil Works
With respect to any contract:
(a)   If bidders are required to pre-qualify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of pre-qualified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
pre-qualification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedure
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification or addition to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Borrower's
consultants on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of said consultants, and the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any
objection to the intended award and shall state the reasons for any objection it
may have.
(d)   If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's objection or
if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(e)   Copy of the contract shall be furnished to the Association promptly
after its execution.


﻿20
2.   Exceptions to the Procedures in the Guidelines for Procurement
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, bid invitations for civil works contracts may
be limited to advertisements in newspapers of general circulation in the territories
of the Borrower.
0
S


