Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3929 KE 
 
GRANT NUMBER H098 KE
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Agricultural Productivity Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
Kenya Agricultural Research Institute  
 
Dated  June 25, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3929 KE 
 
GRANT NUMBER H098 KE 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 25, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and KENYA AGRICULTURAL 
RESEARCH INSTITUTE (KARI). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Financing Agreement of even date 
herewith between Republic of Kenya (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to twenty six million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,700,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Financing Agreement, but only 
on conditions that KARI agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and KARI, part of the proceeds of the financing provided for under the 
Development Financing Agreement will be made available to KARI on the terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS KARI, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Financing Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Financing Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) KARI declares its commitment to the objective of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Financing Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part C.2 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
Page  3
-
2
-
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for Part C.2 of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and KARI shall otherwise agree, KARI shall carry out Part 
C.2 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the 
Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by Schedule 3 to the Development 
Financing Agreement.  
 
Section 2.03. KARI shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part C.2 of the Project. 
 
Section 2.04. KARI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KARI shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) KARI shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part C.2 of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement, and other matter relating to the purposes of the Financing. 
 
(b)  
KARI shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part C.2 of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing, or the performance by KARI of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of KARI 
 
Section 3.01. KARI shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 3.02. KARI shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, and environmental practices. 
 
Section 3.03. KARI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  KARI shall establish and thereafter maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to Part C.2 of the Project. 
(b) KARI 
shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Association), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors,  in scope and detail satisfactory to 
the Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon KARI’s reporting obligations set out in 
paragraph 5 of the Schedule to this Agreement, KARI shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part C.2 of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Financing , and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  such 
funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under Part C.2 of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not 
covered by the previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Financing Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of KARI 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Financing Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  
64145 (MCI) 
Page  7
-
6
-
For KARI: 
 
Director  
 
Kenya Agricultural Research Institute  
 
P.O Box 57811 
 
Nairobi, Kenya 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
22766
+
(254) 258 3344 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of KARI, may be 
taken or executed by the Director or such other person or persons as the Director shall 
designate in writing, and the Director shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Nairobi, Kenya, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By   
/s/ 
Makhtar Diop 
Authorized Representative 
 
KENYA AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE  
 
By  
/s/ 
R. Kimoe 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE  
Implementation Program 
1. 
KARI shall carry out Part C.2 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
the PIP, and shall not, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, amend or waive 
any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, may adversely and 
materially affect the implementation of Part C.2 of the Project. 
2. 
The KARI shall provide Farmer Grants in accordance with procedures and 
eligibility criteria set forth in the FGM, which shall include, but not be limited to the 
following: 
 
(a) 
activities to be financed by Farmer Grants shall include provision of 
agricultural advisory services and acquisition of improved agricultural technologies;  
 
(b) 
activities to be financed by Farmer Grants shall be economically, 
financially and technically viable in accordance with standards set forth in the FGM; and 
 
(c) 
activities to be financed by Farmer Grants shall be initiated by a 
Beneficiary and a Farmer Grant shall not exceed the equivalent of $15,000. 
3. 
A Farmer Grant shall be provided through a Farmer Grant Agreement to be 
entered into with the Beneficiary, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall include the following: 
 (a) 
the Beneficiary’s obligation to carry out the activities to be financed by 
the Farmer Grant in accordance with the FGM, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and 
to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Farmer Grant; 
 
(b) 
the requirement that: (i) goods, works and services to be financed from 
the proceeds of the Farmer Grant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the eligible activities in accordance with the FGM; 
 
(c) 
the right of KARI to inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and construction financed 
by the Farmer Grant, the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(d) 
the right of KARI to obtain all information as KARI or the Association 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and financial conditions 
of activities to be financed by the Farmer Grant; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
(e) 
the right of KARI to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to 
use the proceeds of the Farmer Grant upon the failure by the Beneficiary to perform any 
of its obligations under the Farmer Grant Agreement. 
4. 
KARI shall carry out the financial management and procurement aspects of the 
Project, and shall assist the Borrower in building financial management and procurement 
capacity in the Project Secretariat. 
5. KARI 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to the 
Development Financing Agreement to this Agreement, the carrying out of Part C.2 of the 
Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2005 and September 30, 2006, 
reports integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
Part C.2 of the Project during the period preceding the date of said reports and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part C.2 of the Project 
and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by December 31,2005 and December 31, 
2006, or such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of Part C.2 of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the 
Association’s views on the matter. 
 
