Page  1
 
 
Page  2
 
 
- 2 - 
 - 
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) 
Section I – Basic Information 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: March 12, 2004 
Report No.:AC258
A. Basic Project Data 
 
A.1. Project Statistics 
Country: Kenya 
Project ID: P082396 
Project: Kenya Agricultural Productivity 
Project 
TTL: Moctar Toure 
Total project cost (by component): 
1. Policy and institutional reforms              6.3 million 
2. Support to extension system reform        3.4 million 
3. Support to research system reform       25.0 million 
4. Support to farmer/client empowerment   5.3 million 
Appraisal Date: March 1, 2004 
Loan/Credit/Grant amount($m):  
IDA-Credit: 27 
IDA-Grant   13 
Board Date: May 27, 2004 
  
Other financing amounts by source: 
 
($m.) 
Managing Unit: AFTS2 
Sector: Agriculture (100%) 
Lending Instruments: Adaptable Program 
Loan 
 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency 
recovery? 
Yes?
[ ] 
No? 
[
X
] 
Environmental Category:   
C
 
Safeguard Classification:   
S3
 
 
A.2. Project Objectives 
 
The project’s development objective is to improve the system supporting generation, 
dissemination, and adoption of agricultural technology through: (a)  reforms in extension 
to increase pluralism, responsiveness to clients, and participation by private providers;  
(b)  evolutionary change in the existing system of agricultural research to improve 
accountability and impact; and, (c) increased empowerment of  producer  organizations  
to influence the  planning,  design,  implementation,  funding  and monitoring and 
evaluation of research, extension, training and capacity building activities
. 
 
Key performance indicators:   
 
Phase I  results will be  monitored by the following  performance indicators: 
 
• 
Increase in awareness and use of recommended varieties; 
• 
Increase in farm incomes among immediate project beneficiaries; 
• 
Increase in adoption of soil fertility and water management improvement practices 
among immediate beneficiaries; 
• 
Enhanced conditions of the targeted watershed/catchment areas as measured by the 
adoption of sediment storage measures, and river bank protection measures;  
• 
Increase in KARI patented processes and registered varieties; 
Page  3
 
 
- 3 - 
 - 
• 
Rates of participation in the various fora created under the project, and reports from 
participants on the effectiveness of the for a; 
• 
Progress in design of the national extension policy and related enactments. 
 
The project will contribute to the Bank’s overarching CAS goal of helping to reverse 
Kenya’s decline in economic growth and equity. The project is closely aligned with 
Kenya’s ERS/PRSP, which is centered around three pillars: economic growth with 
macroeconomic stability, equity and poverty reduction, and improved governance.  The 
project supports these goals by contributing to: (i) higher farm incomes through increased 
adoption of profitable and environmentally sound technologies, particularly among 
smallholders and subsistence farmers; (ii) raising the productivity of public investments; 
(iii) improving the climate for private investment in agriculture and for private provision 
of agricultural services; and (iv) clarifying options and actions to improve the policy and 
regulatory framework in agriculture. The project will also support the Government’s 
effort to shift authority and responsibility to local governments as part of the process of  
decentralization.  
 
 
 
A.3. Project Description 
 
Component 1: Facilitation of Policy and Institutional Reforms  
 
The first component will support establishment of the institutional framework required to 
increase agricultural productivity in Kenya. It will be organically linked to the 
institutional framework set up by the Government to implement its new Strategy to 
Revitalize Agriculture (SRA). Activities will include creation of coordination structures 
and consultative fora, and provision of resources for these entities and the government 
more generally to develop and/or access the informational base required to guide action. 
The project will provide resources to the relevant Ministries to capture the lessons being 
generated by project activities, and to draw on existing national and international 
experience and knowledge. 
 
The coordination and consultative structures will include the following: 
 
SRA existing bodies
: (i) an Inter-ministerial Coordination Committee (SRA-ICC) 
composed of Permanent Secretaries of all  sector related ministries (Agriculture, 
Livestock and Fisheries Development, Cooperatives, Water, Environment and Natural 
Resources, Local Governments and Lands), to provide coherence and direction to the 
reform process; (ii) a National Agricultural Forum (SRA-NAF) to ensure that proposed 
reforms follow a common and coherent overall conceptual framework,  
KAPP specific organs
: (i) a KAPP Secretariat (KS), that provides an overall coordination 
of the program, while overseeing the Monitoring and Evaluation and Information and 
Communication functions; (ii) a KAPP Steering Committee (with chief executives and 
directors of the concerned ministries and agencies) that ensure support functions to the 
ISC and act as a liaison between the ministries and public institutions and the KAPP; and 
(
iii
)
 District Service Units 
(
DSU
)
 that act as local KAPP secretariats to coordinate and 
Page  4
 
 
- 4 - 
 - 
implement targeted pilot interventions that feed into the reform process and capacity 
building activities in the selected 20 districts.  
The KS would also facilitate establishment of three consultative stakeholder mechanisms: 
an Extension Task Force (ETF), a Research Task Force (RTF) and a Farmer/Client 
empowerment Forum (CF). The TFs eventually will collapse into the NAF once the new 
agricultural extension and research policy and institutional frameworks are developed. 
The CF will be duplicated at the district level in a single consultative forum system, 
which would be the result of representation aggregation processes that occur at division 
and lower levels.  
 
Component 2: Support to Extension System Reform 
 
The component will build on achievements made under the NAEP framework by 
facilitating the development and internalization of a shared vision, strategy and policy 
that will help establish a new system of national extension service. Activities supported 
under the project will lead to the formulation and adoption of a new extension policy by 
2006.  The activities under this component would: (a) clarify and rationalize roles, and 
functions between public, private and civil society organizations, (b) streamline and 
develop more effective and responsive public services, (c) enhance capacity among non-
public extension service providers, and (d) increase performance and sustainability. This 
would be achieved through three subcomponents focused on institution building, learning 
pilots and capacity building. Universities and other education service providers will play 
a key role in addressing the human capacity needs in the sector.  
 
Sub-component 2.1: Facilitation of an Extension Reform Consultative Process
.
 The sub-
component will support establishment of an Extension Task Force(ETF) composed of 
representatives from all major agricultural extension players as well as clients (research, 
farmers and market agents). It will coordinate the overall extension reform initiative,  
report to the National Forum and be supported in its activities by the KAPP Secretariat.  
ETF’s activities will also include: (i) establishment of a live database that would act as 
comprehensive inventory and institutional assessment of the main extension and 
education service providers operating in the country, as well as a reference base on the 
various extension methodologies/approaches used and (ii) organization of learning events 
including study-tours.  
 
Sub-component 2.2: Learning pilots
.
 Pilots will be established in twenty districts to 
support integrated and targeted extension activities. The pilots would be implemented 
using participatory assessment of needs and resources, which would be used to develop 
divisional Community Integrated Plans (CIP) as the planning basis for broader District 
Integrated Plans (DIP). The CIPs and DIPs would also indicate the extension approaches 
and demand-driven research activities to be piloted. KAPP will finance pilot extension 
approaches (10 per year, per district) identified within the context of CIPs  and provide 
investment to nascent business extension providers on a cost sharing and cost recovery 
basis. Service providers would draw on the existing resources and procedures as much as 
possible.  
 
Page  5
 
 
- 5 - 
 - 
Sub-component 2.3: Capacity building
. 
The KAPP will strengthen district level capacity 
by providing training support of different kind to public staff, NGOs and CBOs and to the 
private sector service providers. Training needs assessment exercises will be conducted in 
each district to define specific plans and curricula (on participatory approaches, public 
role reorientation, planning-coordination-M&E, institution building, marketing, 
information and communication, technical and financial related skills).  
 
Component 3: Support to Research System Reform 
 
The objective under KAPP’s research component will be to reform the agricultural 
research sector so that it encompasses a plurality of actors and becomes more efficient 
and accountable . Reforms would: (i) increase the role of end-users in planning of 
activities, resource allocation, and monitoring of implementation, (ii) promote 
performance/result based resource allocation, (iii) induce greater collaboration and 
synergy between and among public and private research institutions; (iv) ensure effective 
integration of research, education and extension services at local levels; (v) increase the 
volume of appropriate technologies and knowledge generated and applied. This would be 
achieved through establishment of a national agricultural research system, pilot 
collaborative research activities, and further support to KARI.    
 
Sub-component 3.1: Facilitation of a consultative process for the establishment of a 
NARS. 
A Research Task Force (RFT) will be established, composed of representatives 
from all major agricultural research actors as well as clients (extension and farmers). The 
RTF will report to the National Forum and be supported in its activities by the KAPP 
Secretariat. The Task Force’s initial work program would include:  (i) a comprehensive 
inventory and institutional assessment of all research institutions operating in Kenya, 
including assessment of technologies generated, methodologies and approaches, and 
institutional capacity, presented in a report and database (ii) learning through study tours, 
(iii) a vision for a NARS, including a framework for prioritization and operation and (iv) 
a roadmap and time-bound implementation plan to move towards the NARS (including a 
rationalization plan).  
 
Sub-component 3.2: Targeted activities to initiate the NARS’ Reform Process.
 
Targeted 
activities, which will build upon the findings of the inventory (3.1) include: (i) piloting of 
collaborative research programs across institutions focused on thematic areas of high 
priority, selected by the RFT (e.g., HIV/AIDS, land and water degradation, market 
development and trade and rural credit); (ii) developing tools for collaboration (HR, ICT 
etc.), (iii) targeted capacity building of the scientific community (other than KARI), (iv) 
development of an operational and sustainable funding mechanism for the entire NARS; 
and (v) initial investments in the NARS rationalization process. 
 
Sub-component 3.3: Support to the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI).
 
The 
sub-component will finance the implementation of priority research programs in crops 
(food, horticultural and industrial), animal production and health, land and water 
management, agricultural biotechnology, socio-economics and biometrics, as well as 
cross-cutting programs in adaptive research, research outreach and in developing 
Page  6
 
 
- 6 - 
 - 
sustainable sources of funding for KARI research. Investments will be targeted to support 
KARI’s transition into a more effective institution with increased field impact and 
capacity to extend and expand successful methodologies. Reforms and activities will 
build upon the results of recent external reviews of KARI programs, which will be 
disseminated widely amongst KARI staff prior to KAPP effectiveness. KAPP would fund 
activities and investments in the areas of 1) Institutional Strengthening; 2) Research 
Program; 3) Information Dissemination; and 4) Research and Development Funding. 
These activities are targeted at: (i) enhancing KARI's ability to demonstrate sizable field 
impact by addressing shortcomings in its capacity and approaches to extend and up-scale 
successful technologies;  (ii) improving its research planning, review and approval 
processes to reflect changes prompted by feedbacks from end-users and or emerging 
challenges and to improve accountability; (iii) revising the quality review and assurance 
process (iv) paying greater attention to socio-economic aspects within a biologically-
dominated research system; (vi) building an adequate ICT infrastructure; and (v) 
improving KARI’s working environment and the incentive structure for scientists. The 
consolidation of KARI will need to be progressively consistent with the envisaged 
integrated rationalization plan of the national agricultural research system and with the 
new extension policy framework. Thus, the activities under this sub-component would be 
reviewed annually in order to adjust its content and thrust to KAPP’s evolving agenda. 
 
 
Component 4: Support to Farmer/Client Empowerment 
 
The component will help develop institutional and financial mechanisms that will give 
farmers  control over extension and research services and increase their access to 
productivity enhancing products. As a first step, KAPP will help facilitate direct 
involvement by farmers in the reform process through client consultative structures at all 
levels, and provide means for improved access to information on technology and 
services. In addition, KAPP will provide targeted support to (i) scale-up application of 
technology innovations through establishment of service enterprise networks and (ii) 
build capacity of associations and commodity organizations. Training activities to build 
farmers’ institutional, management and technical capacities are also planned.
 
 
Sub-component 4.1: Facilitation of client consultative process
. 
Client fora (CF) will be 
established at national, district and grass root level to guide and support farmer 
empowerment. In order to strengthen access to information, mass communication tools 
(radio, print media and newsletters, television programs and websites) will be utilized to 
target all segments of the client fora. Divisional fora farmer leaders would be supported 
to enhance their access to a transparent and continuous flow of information. 
 
Sub-component 4.2: Targeted interventions for Client Empowerment
.
 The sub-component 
will  support qualified producer organizations to build their capacity to offer services 
that: (i) help farmers meet registration requirements; (ii) enhance client capacity to meet 
national and international marketing and certification standards and requirements; (iii) 
offer market link networking services to client members. On the basis on the Enterprise 
Plans, the KAPP will also facilitate the scalin
g
-u
p
 of technolo
gy
 innovations throu
g
h the 
Page  7
 
 
- 7 - 
 - 
establishment of 80 client networks and building on their own savings, help make 
investments that will scale up access to agricultural services for production, agro-
processing, marketing and management of finances. 
 
Sub-component 4.3: Capacity building
. The capacity building sub-component would 
provide client training aimed at improving production, managing the natural resource 
base, processing and network marketing skills and developing client fora capacity to 
access and manage financial resources. Training needs would be assessed using 
participatory methods and compiled in district training plans. Client fora will be assisted 
to develop their own network of trainers. Agricultural education institutions that also 
register as service providers will have opportunity to access funds to deliver training.  
 
A.4        Lessons learned and reflected in the project design 
 
Poor performance of public systems of research and extension globally has led to a 
number of lessons of experience that are incorporated in the design of the three phased 
APL.  Separate and poorly linked systems of research and extension yield low returns.  
The content of extension is impoverished when poorly linked with research, and the 
applications of research are thwarted when poorly linked to extension.  Neither research 
nor extension achieves high returns, even if well linked, if not attuned to the needs of 
actual clients; i.e., the farmers.  Well functioning systems of generation, dissemination, 
and adoption of technology require feedback loops through which farmers have a real 
voice in decisions. Although the public sector must remain active in research and 
extension, and in funding of both, private firms can be more cost effective and responsive 
to clients.  Producers are more influential and more effectively reached when they are 
organized, rather than atomized.  Subsidiarity must be observed in assigning 
responsibilities for public entities, and many of the appropriate public functions can be 
best performed at the local level.  Research and extension must address productive 
systems and natural resource management, as well as specific commodities.  Finally, 
consistent under-funding of agricultural research and extension, especially in Africa, 
leads to high indicators of marginal returns to investment, but to low measured impact on 
the ground, as modest efforts are spread very thinly.  Each of these lessons has been 
reflected in the design of the operation and the road map for change envisioned in the 
Kenyan strategy.  An ambitious agenda of reform will lie ahead as these lessons are 
reflected in the design of programs.  
 
The lessons of NARP I and II also influenced the project design, particularly the need for: 
greater focus on end users, effective monitoring and evaluation, empowerment of 
regional research entities  and greater integration with the broader agriculture sector.  In 
addition, the generally positive experience in implementation of NARP I and II has 
influenced the proposed arrangements for implementation, and the decision to use the 
administrative capacity within KARI to best advantage, particularly in the early phase. 
 
 
A.5    Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
 
 
A follow-u
p
 
p
ro
j
ect to the NARP II to consolidate the 
g
ains made under the two 
p
revious 
Page  8
 
 
- 8 - 
 - 
agricultural research project phases was considered but rejected. A follow-on project 
would be poorly able to capture the lessons of experience noted above, and would most 
likely be characterized by: a) a narrow technological focus compounded by moderate to 
low adoption rates of outputs; b) a centralized and tightly compartmentalized research 
system; c) poor ability to retain researchers because of limited career opportunities; d) a 
sub-optimal use of assets and/or redundant capital investment and; e) poor overall 
accountability of the entire system.  A simple continuation of past support to KARI 
would not capitalize on the readiness of KARI and other entities to create a more 
effective research system.  Nor would such an operation address the challenge implicit in 
the ERS and its demands on agriculture.  The proposed project incorporates the emphasis 
on technical excellence embodied in past support under NARP I and II, but moves 
beyond it to promote institutional change and greater impact on growth and poverty.   
 
The selection of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), instead of a Specific Investment 
Loan (SIL) was based on the following  reasons: (i) institutional development, 
agricultural technology generation and technology adoption are long-term processes that 
require sustained effort and support; (ii) development of a pluralistic research and 
extension system and the establishment of client empowering mechanisms requires 
flexibility throughout the project life; (iii)  the change in culture represented by the 
project approach requires a period of learning, generalized acknowledgement and 
refining as these strategies and plans are developed; and (iv) the phases can be identified 
and triggers designed
. 
The structure of an APL allows the project to devote one phase to 
each of the reform design, implementation and consolidation objectives with triggers for 
each phase.   
 
A.5    Implementation  
 
Partnership Arrangements
 
 
The KAPP has no formal partnership arrangements with other donors, but partnership 
through the entities created under KAPP is likely to expand as other donors clarify their 
approaches to increased support for Kenyan agriculture. The EU has indicated interest to 
coordinate its future interventions with the KAPP process. Consultative and planning 
mechanisms between GoK and donors operate at various levels with various degrees of 
efficiency and success. The Medium Term Expenditures Framework (MTEF) provides 
the most appropriate framework to implement such objectives as do various working 
groups on agriculture, food security, agricultural policy, extension and 
commercialization. KAPP would greatly benefit from a  reinvigorated working groups 
and close organic links to the MTEF processes.  
 
Institutional and implementation arrangements
 
 
Sector-wide oversight Committee
. There will be 3 lead institutions: the Ministry of 
Agriculture, the Ministry of Livestock ad Fisheries Development, and the Kenya 
Agricultural Research Institute (KARI). Overall coordination will be under a KAPP 
Secretariat.  
 
Page  9
 
 
- 9 - 
 - 
Project overall Coordination
. The KAPP Secretariat will have responsibility for overall 
project coordination. The core of the current secretariat is composed of an officer from 
the Ministry of agriculture, the Ministry of Livestock Development, KARI and KENFAP 
with full time appointments to the secretariat. Due to the demands of the reform agenda, 
the Secretariat will be staffed, prior to effectiveness and through a transparent selection 
process, by highly qualified individuals drawn from public services or the job market. 
The core team would source out from implementing agencies or the market additional 
and temporarily skills as need arise.  
 
The secretariat has been designed to cut across institutions and integrate different 
institutional agendas into a focused reform strategy. Linking the KAPP secretariat to the 
Economic subcommittee of the cabinet, an inter-ministerial steering committee and the 
agricultural sector working group in the Ministry of Planning provides the necessary 
cross cutting links.  
 
Through implementation of the KAPP, the secretariat will seek to improve its own skills 
in managing reforms, interacting at high levels of Government, networking and 
successfully lobbying for desired outcomes. Often in the past Kenyan public employees 
knew what was wrong but had little voice or ability to drive change. The KAPP 
secretariat will seek to develop skills and opportunities for civil servants and others to 
contribute to the process of change.  
 
Project implementation
. The range of issues involved in raising agricultural 
productivity suggests a natural division of labor among institutions implementing 
different components. 
 
Component 1.
  The agricultural sector institutional reform component will be 
implemented by the KAPP Secretariat.  
 
Component 2.
  The extension component will be implemented by the 2 ministries -- 
Agriculture, and Livestock and Fisheries Development. The institutionalization of an 
Extension Task Force will bring input from private and civil society service providers, 
and any others interested in, or able to make a contribution toward improving extension 
services in Kenya. Universities, commodity organizations, NGOs and private input 
suppliers are expected to become members of this forum. The Extension TF will be 
supported by the KAPP Secretariat and resource persons drawn from a range of extension 
stakeholders. Funds for activities under this component will be coordinated by the KAPP 
secretariat and the line ministries, but may be contracted out to many different types of 
contractors, extension and training providers, and universities. 
 
Component 3
.  The research component will be implemented by KARI under the 
guidance of the inter-ministerial steering group. A Research Task Force will bring in 
other research institutes, universities, and private sector organizations interested in 
agricultural research. The Research TF will also be supported by the KAPP Secretariat 
and resource persons drawn from a range of research stakeholders 
 
Page  10
 
 
- 10 - 
 - 
Component 4
.  Farmer and client empowerment will be implemented by the District 
Agricultural Services Units (DSU) at the district level, and at national level by the KAPP 
secretariat. Capacity building activities will be ongoing at both levels. District Client 
Forums will help to determine which organizations are best placed to deliver specific 
capacity building interventions. 
 
Financial Management and Procurement
.  Financial management and procurement 
arrangements will be based on the successful procedures put in place by KARI. There 
will be need to build such capacity in other implementing institutions. However tying the 
KAPP secretariat closely to KARI should limit the bottlenecks in this regard, particularly 
if KARI can procure on behalf of other bodies.  
 
Flow of funds and accountabilities for financial reporting should piggyback on the 
existing KARI system for the first phase of the project. However since the project does 
not fall within a particular ministry it is proposed that separate accounts be set up for the 
project at the national as well as district levels with appropriate checks and balances and 
audit trails to meet global accounting standards, and global standards for probity and 
transparency.   
 
A.6. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis: 
 
Kenya straddles the equator in East Africa. It has a total area of 58.7 million hectares, 
including 1.1 million hectares covered by water, and an estimated population of 28.5 
million with a growth rate of 3.5 per annum. Eighty-five percent of the population live in 
rural areas and are dependent on agriculture for their livelihoods. 
 
Kenya is characterized by a varied altitudinal profile from the Indian Ocean coastline to 
over 5000m at Mt. Kenya.  Key relief features are the Rift Valley, separating two sets of 
highland masses to the east (Aberdares and Mt. Kenya) and west (Mau Hills and the 
Cheranganis). Respectively these provide watersheds to the Ng’iro lowlands running 
down to the Indian Ocean, and the Lake Victoria basin. 
 
Through its influence on climate, altitude is the single most important determinant of 
ecological potential in Kenya. Rainfall occurrence in Kenya is associated with the lifting 
of air masses over relief barriers following the seasonal migration of the Inter-Tropical 
Convergence Zone.  Annual rainfall increases from below 400mm in the lowlands to a 
high of over 2000mm in the most easterly exposed slopes of Mt. Kenya.  Annual rainfall 
occurs in two wet seasons: a long rainy season lasting from March to May, and a short 
rains between November and December.  The two wet seasons are separated by dry spells 
whose length increases from about 2 months in the highlands to about 8 months in the 
lowlands. Mean annual temperatures range from very low (below freezing point) on Mt 
Kenya to over 30
0
C in the lowlands.  
Kenya is divisible into seven distinct agro-climatic zones on the basis of the ratio of 
rainfall to potential evapo-transpiration. Eighteen percent of Kenya’s land area is 
considered to be hi
g
h 
p
otential for a
g
riculture, i.e. the land within immediate vicinit
y
 of 
Page  11
 
 
- 11 - 
 - 
the central highland masses, and this area supports over 80% of the population. Arid and 
semi-arid areas cover the remaining 48 million hectares, equivalent to 82% of Kenya’s 
land area, and have a population of approximately 5 million (less than 20% of the 
population). Within these areas the inadequacy of moisture critically limits local 
ecological productivity and socio-economic development.  
 
Agriculture’s role in Kenya’s economic growth and development was underlined in the 
ERS. Agriculture is the single largest sector of the Kenyan economy (over 30% of GDP), 
and it provides over 70 percent of employment. Agriculture also accounts for an 
additional 30% of GDP through its contribution to the manufacturing and services sector. 
Two-thirds of Kenya’s industrial output is agro-industry based, which is why growth in 
the agriculture sector and growth in GDP have followed parallel trends over the last 20 
years. Agricultural and GDP growth has greatly fluctuated over this period, within a trend 
of a declining share of GDP from agriculture over the last thirty years, and this has been 
accompanied by increasing pressure on the natural resource base, reduced security of 
livelihoods and increased poverty. 
 
Women form at least half of the workforce, and are probably the majority of the “cheap” 
labor upon which the sector relies. Agricultural sector reform should therefore include 
sufficient measures to ensure that women are empowered, giving them access to new 
technologies and practices, and to extension services. Failure to adopt approaches that 
facilitate full participation by rural women will result in reform that is at best fragmented 
and partial.  
 
Most groups identified as indigenous according to the World Bank OD 4.30, would not 
fall into the primary sedentary farmer target group.  However, the impacts of agricultural 
technology changes and research advances would impact these groups in terms of 
consumption habits, impacts on labor demands within the agricultural sector, activities 
related to livestock etc.  Hence it is important that these potential impacts on indigenous 
groups within the pilot regions be monitored at the end of phase 1.  The project can then 
make an informed decision, whether any special approach is needed to ensure that such 
groups are not negatively impacted by project activities, and that they are equipped to 
benefit from and participate in the project. 
 
While targeting the poor is important, it is necessary to recognize the different roles of 
sub-groups within a community in the context of targeting, monitoring impacts and 
putting in appropriate mitigation measures.  For example, middle income rural poor are 
an important target group for this project, as they are the ones who have access to capital 
and are hence better equipped to take advantage of improvements in technology through 
research and extension.  Their catalyst role in reviving the rural economy is important 
and needs to be kept in mind in this project.  The monitoring plan and social analysis will 
focus on identifying any sub-groups that are negatively impacted by technology change 
e.g. fall in demand for casual labor, decrease in availability of rental fields etc.  It id 
important for the project to look at these issues in the proposed detailed social analysis 
during phase 1, monitor such impacts and incorporate appropriate actions to address them 
to the extent feasible. 
Page  12
 
 
- 12 - 
 - 
 
HIV/AIDS has had great negative impact on all sectors in Kenya, but perhaps most on the 
agriculture sector where the massive loss of both a skilled and an unskilled workforce 
affects labor supply and therefore productivity. As the bulk of Kenyans live in rural areas, 
morbidity and mortality in household level leads to decreased acreage of farms, loss of 
income, increased poverty and food insecurity.   
 
The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of 
Livestock and Fisheries Development and KARI, and thus will have a country-wide 
scope. However for phase I most of the field activities will be carried out within the 
framework of KARI’s research center network located in the following twenty districts 
identified during pre-appraisal: Makueni, Embu, Meru Central, and Isiolo (Eastern 
Province); Garissa (North Eastern); Tana River, Kwale, Taita Taveta, and Kilifi (Coast); 
Siaya, Gucha, and Homabay (Nyanza); Nakuru, Trans Nzoia, and West Pokot (Rift 
Valley); Kakamega, Butere-Mumias, and Busia (Western); and Nyeri and Nyandarua 
(Central).  The selection of these districts was based on a set of criteria related to: poverty 
reduction, development projects coverage, agro-ecological potential and agricultural 
production mainstay, issues of national strategic importance, available capacity, socio-
economic indicators.  A de-linked but associated GEF-financed project will work in five 
selected catchments in these districts to promote sustainable land and water management 
practices for improved agricultural productivity and enhanced ecosystem integrity. 
 
 
Environmental and Social Issues 
 
The key environmental and social issues in agriculture in Kenya include: 
Environment:   
• 
loss of natural habitat,  
• 
use of inappropriate farming practices,  
• 
agriculture/wildlife conflicts,  
• 
agro-processing pollution,  
• 
misuse of pesticides, and  
• 
proneness to climatic fluctuations (especially drought). 
 
Social:   
• 
resource poor farmers inability to access extension services and inputs,  
• 
inappropriate technology and thus poor adoption, 
• 
women’s inadequate access and control of production functions,  
• 
HIV/AIDS impact production systems and livelihoods, and 
It would be important to monitor impacts, if any, on indigenous people at the end of 
phase 1 and incorporate special measures if / as deemed necessary. 
    
 
B. Check Environmental Category 
A [
 
], B [ ], C [
X 
], FI [ ] 
 
 
Page  13
 
 
- 13 - 
 - 
Comments: 
The associated GEF operation has been formally de-linked from KAPP-IDA 
and will be processed as a separate project.
  
KAPP activities are likely to have minimal to 
no adverse social and environment impacts.  This is because they are largely concerned 
with enhancing existing agricultural research and extension (R&E) activities, policy 
development, and learning pilots to test new approaches to agricultural R&E.
  
Hence the 
classification of C and S3 were agreed upon.  The QER and decision meeting confirmed 
that
 
the project is now transferred and the sector manager will be responsible for (a) 
clearing and disclosing of any safeguard document, (b) ensuring that social and 
environment issues are addressed in the project, and (c) ensuring that qualified social and 
environment staff are included on the team.  
 
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered 
 
 
 Yes 
No 
 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
Natural Habitats
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
Pest Management
 (OP 4.09) 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
Cultural Property
 (draft OP 4.11 - 
OPN 
11.03
-) 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
Involuntary Resettlement
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
Indigenous Peoples
 (
OD 4.20
) [ 
] 
[X] 
 
Forests
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
Safety of Dams
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
Projects in Disputed Areas
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
[ ] 
[X] 
 
Projects on International Waterways
 
(
OP
/
BP
/GP 7.50) 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' 
claims on the disputed areas
 
Page  14
 
 
- 14 - 
 - 
 
Section II – Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management  
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
. 
 
D.1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts. 
 
None.  At the same time, there is the potential for environmental degradation and 
inadequate natural resources management to affect the project and agricultural 
productivity, as well as the risk of project benefits overlooking vulnerable groups.  In 
these circumstances, and following best practice, a sectoral environmental and social 
assessment (SESA) was carried out to establish a framework for more strongly including 
effective response to environmental and social sustainability considerations in a reformed 
agricultural R&E system.  These broad considerations include safeguards concerns for 
targeting vulnerable sub-groups, addressing HIV/AIDS, recognizing potential impacts on 
indigenous peoples, reducing environmental and natural resource/habitat degradation, 
avoiding future degradation, strengthening pesticide management and the use of 
integrated pest management. 
 
As part of  best practices impact assessment will be carried out including social issues.  
This will focus on identifying project impacts on the range of different sub-groups and 
stakeholders, ensuring that project activities do not indirectly affect any groups adversely 
(e.g. impact of technology on demand for casual labor).  These issues will be 
incorporated into the monitoring program as they are identified during the social analysis. 
 
D.2 Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area. 
 
None anticipated. 
 
D.3. Describe the treatment of alternatives (if relevant) 
 
Not applicable. 
 
D.4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard issues.  Provide an 
assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
 
The borrower carried out the SESA which has been approved in principle by NEMA on 
the basis of a category B project. However KAPP is classified as a category C which 
therefore does not require impact assessment and disclosure measures.  
D.5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
 
Not applicable. 
 
 
 
Page  15
 
 
- 15 - 
 - 
 
F. Disclosure Requirements   
 
Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:  
Date of receipt by the Bank 
Not Applicable 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
Not Applicable 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
Not Applicable 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive Summary of the EA to the 
Executive Directors 
 
 Not Applicable 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
Not Applicable 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
Not Applicable 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
Not Applicable 
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:  
Date of receipt by the Bank 
Not Applicable 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
Not Applicable 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
Not Applicable 
Pest Management Plan:  
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
Not Applicable 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
Not Applicable 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
Not Applicable 
Dam Safety Management Plan:  
  
Date of receipt by the Bank 
Not Applicable 
Date of “in-country” disclosure 
Not Applicable 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
Not Applicable 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain 
why. 
 
Section III – Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level 
(To be filled in when the ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
OP/BP 4.01 - Environment Assessment:
 
Yes
 No
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
 
X 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the 
EA report? 
  
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
  
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats: 
Yes
 No
 
Would the project result in any significant conversion  or degradation 
of critical natural habitats? 
 X 
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of 
other (non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation 
measures acceptable to the Bank? 
  
OP 4.09 - Pest Management: N/A 
Yes
 No
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues?     
 
 
Is a separate PMP required? 
 
 
If yes,  are PMP requirements included in project design? 
 
 
Page  16
 
 
- 16 - 
 - 
Draft OP 4.11 (OPN 11.03) - Cultural Property: N/A 
Yes
 No
 
Does the EA include adequate measures?   
 
 
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential 
adverse impacts on physical cultural resources? 
  
OD 4.20 - Indigenous Peoples: N/A 
Yes
 No
 
Has a separate indigenous people development plan been prepared in 
consultation with the Indigenous People? 
  
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and 
approve the plan? 
  
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been 
reviewed and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit? 
 
N.B.  Most groups identified as indigenous according to the World 
Bank OD 4.30, would not fall into the primary sedentary farmer target 
group.  However, the impacts of agricultural technology changes and 
research advances would impact these groups in terms of consumption 
habits, impacts on labor demands within the agricultural sector, 
activities related to livestock etc.  Hence it is important that these 
potential impacts on indigenous groups within the pilot regions be 
monitored at the end of phase 1.  The project can then make an 
informed decision, whether any special approach is needed to ensure 
that such groups are not negatively impacted by project activities, and 
that they are equipped to benefit from and participate in the project. 
  
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement:    N/A 
Yes
 No
 
Has a resettlement action plan, policy framework or policy process 
been prepared? 
  
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and 
approve the plan / policy framework / policy process? 
  
OP/BP 4.36 – Forests:   N/A 
Yes
 No
 
Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional issues and 
constraints been carried out? 
  
Does the project design include satisfactory measures to overcome 
these constraints? 
  
Does the project finance commercial harvesting, and if so, does it 
include provisions for certification system? 
  
OP/BP 4.37 - Safety of Dams:    N/A 
Yes
 No
 
Have dam safety plans been prepared? 
 
 
Have the TORs as well as composition for the independent Panel of 
Experts (POE) been reviewed and approved by the Bank? 
  
Has an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) been prepared and 
arrangements been made for public awareness and training? 
  
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways:   N/A 
Yes
 No
 
Have the other riparian been notified of the project? 
 
 
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification 
requirement, then has this been cleared with the Legal Department, 
and the memo to the RVP prepared and sent? 
  
Page  17
 
 
- 17 - 
 - 
What are the reasons for the exception? 
 
 
Please explain: 
 
 
Has the RVP approved such an exception? 
 
 
OP 7.60 - Projects in Disputed Areas
:    N/A
 
Yes
 No
 
Has the memo conveying all pertinent information on the international 
aspects of the project, including the procedures to be followed, and the 
recommendations for dealing with the issue, been prepared, cleared 
with the Legal Department and sent to the RVP? 
  
Does the PAD/MOP include the standard disclaimer referred to in the 
OP? 
  
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure:  N/A 
Yes
 No
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World 
Bank's Infoshop? 
  
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place 
in a form and language that are understandable and accessible to 
project-affected groups and local NGOs? 
  
All Safeguard Policies:  N/A 
Yes
 No
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional 
responsibilities been prepared for the implementation of the safeguard 
measures? 
  
Have safeguard measures costs been included in project cost? 
 
 
Will the safeguard measures costs be funded as part of project 
implementation? 
  
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures? 
  
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
  
Signed and submitted by:
 Name
 Date
 
Task Team Leader: 
Moctar Toure 
03/12/04 
Project Safeguards Specialist 
1: 
N/A  
Project Safeguards Specialist 
2: 
N/A  
Approved by:
 Name
 Date
 
Regional Safeguards 
Coordinator: 
N/A  
Comments: The project has been officially transferred to the Sector Manager responsible 
Sector Manager: 
Karen Brooks 
03/16/04 
Comments: 
 
 
 
