Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB307 
Project Name 
Kenya Agricultural Productivity Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Agricultural extension and research (100%) 
Project ID 
P082396 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF KENYA 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries Development 
Kenya 
 
 
KARI 
Kenya 
 
 
Government of Kenya 
Kenya 
 
 
Ministry of agriculture 
Kenya 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
February 9, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 26, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
June 15, 2004 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Despite steady growth in the immediate post independence period, Kenya’s economy has 
performed well below its potential in recent years. For the past two decades productivity has 
declined, competitiveness eroded, and international financial support diminished.  Poverty and 
insecurity have increased.  Average GDP growth declined from about 7% in the 1970’s to just 
over 2% in the 1990’s. Underlying factors include persistent and pervasive poor governance, 
poorly implemented reforms, and low and ill targeted investments in social services, 
infrastructure, and economic services.  
 
Kenya’s agricultural sector mirrored the poor performance of the economy more generally 
during the same period. Average annual agricultural GDP growth fell from 3.5 percent during the 
1980s to 1.0 percent during the 1990s. External factors such as declining global agricultural 
commodity prices and vulnerability to climatic shocks explain part but not all of the decline.  
Domestic policy shortcomings created distortions in input and output markets, inadequacies in 
the legal and regulatory framework raised costs of business, poor infrastructure increased costs 
Page  2
 
 
of marketing, high incidence of HIV/AIDS reduced labor productivity, and dysfunctional public 
support services slowed the renewal of agricultural technology.  The end result has been 
increased rural poverty and food insecurity, decline in competitiveness, and virtual cessation of 
both private and public investment in the sector.   
 
The new Government’s development strategy to address the above issues was most recently 
articulated in the 
Economic Recovery Strategy for Wealth and Employment Creation 
(ERS
) 
(2003-2007
), which built on the foundations of the country’s 
Poverty Reduction Strategy 
Program (PRSP)
. The strategy identifies agriculture, trade and industry and tourism as the prime 
movers of  the recovery program and places particular emphasis on sustainable  agricultural 
growth as a critical element in poverty reduction. The government has also developed a draft 
Strategy for Revitalizing Agriculture 
which takes as its objective “to provide a policy and 
institutional environment that is conducive to increasing agricultural productivity, promoting 
investments, encouraging private sector involvement in agricultural enterprises and 
agribusiness.”  
 
The proposed project will contribute to revitalization of agriculture by:
 
• 
Facilitating farmer empowerment to access and apply profitable technologies.  
• 
Laying the groundwork for a pluralistic agricultural extension and learning system.  
• 
Integrating and rationalizing the national agricultural research system.   
 
 
2. Project 
Objectives 
 
The project’s development objective is to improve the system supporting generation, 
dissemination, and adoption of agricultural technology through: (a)  reforms in extension to 
increase pluralism, responsiveness to clients, and participation by private providers;  (b)  
evolutionary change in the existing system of agricultural research to improve accountability and 
impact; and, (c) increased empowerment of  producer  organizations  to influence the  planning,  
design,  implementation,  funding  and monitoring and evaluation of research, extension, training 
and capacity building activities
. 
 
Key performance indicators
:   
 
Phase I  results will be  monitored by the following  performance indicators: 
 
• 
10% increase in awareness and use of recommended varieties; 
• 
10% increase in farm incomes among immediate project beneficiaries; 
• 
10% increase in adoption of soil fertility and water management improvement practices 
among immediate beneficiaries; 
• 
Enhanced conditions of the targeted watershed/catchment areas as measured by the adoption 
of sediment storage measures, and river bank protection measures;  
• 
20% increase in KARI patented processes and registered varieties; 
• 
Rates of participation in the various fora created under the project, and reports from 
participants on the effectiveness of the for a; 
• 
Progress in design of the national extension policy and related enactments. 
 
Page  3
 
 
The project will contribute to the Bank’s overarching CAS goal of helping to reverse Kenya’s 
decline in economic growth and equity. The project is closely aligned with Kenya’s ERS/PRSP, 
which is centered around three pillars: economic growth with macroeconomic stability, equity 
and poverty reduction, and improved governance.  The project supports these goals by 
contributing to: (i) higher farm incomes through increased adoption of profitable and 
environmentally sound technologies, particularly among smallholders and subsistence farmers; 
(ii) raising the productivity of public investments; (iii) improving the climate for private 
investment in agriculture and for private provision of agricultural services; and (iv) clarifying 
options and actions to improve the policy and regulatory framework in agriculture. The project 
will also support the Government’s effort to shift authority and responsibility to local 
governments as part of the process of  decentralization.  
 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Kenya’s agricultural performance must turn around quite quickly and effectively if the country is 
to recover lost ground and make progress toward meeting the MDG targets for poverty and 
hunger.  The public sector must play a significant role in this process, but over the past decade 
many external partners withdrew support, both technical and financial.  As a consequence recent 
and existing donor interventions have been fragmented and piecemeal.  The new government has 
recognized the need for ambitious reforms to improve agricultural productivity, and seeks  
partnership rich in ideas, coordination and investment. The Bank is well qualified to provide 
leadership on all three elements, building on a foundation of support for agricultural research in 
Kenya and intellectual leadership in reforms of agricultural services in the region and globally.  
Perhaps more importantly, no other major partner is in a position to provide the needed 
partnership in a timely manner.  
 
 
 
4. Description 
 
Component 1: Facilitation of Policy and Institutional Reforms 
 
 
The first component will support establishment of the institutional framework required to 
increase agricultural productivity in Kenya. Activities will include creation of coordination 
structures and consultative fora, and provision of resources for these entities and the government 
more generally to develop and/or access the informational base required to guide action. The 
project will provide resources to the relevant Ministries to capture the lessons being generated by 
project activities, and to draw on existing national and international experience and knowledge. 
 
The coordination structures will include: (i) an Inter-ministerial Steering Committee (ISC) 
composed of Permanent Secretaries of all  sector related ministries (Agriculture, Livestock and 
Fisheries Development, Cooperatives, Water, Environment and Natural Resources, and Lands), 
to provide coherence and direction to the reform process; (ii) a KAPP Secretariat (KS), that 
provides an overall coordination of the program, while overseeing the Monitoring and 
Evaluation and Information and Communication functions; (iii) a KAPP Task Force (with chief 
executives and directors of the concerned ministries and agencies) that ensure support functions 
Page  4
 
 
to the ISC and act as a liaison between the ministries and public institutions and the KAPP; and 
(iv)
 
District Service Units (DSU) that act as local KAPP secretariats to coordinate and implement 
targeted pilot interventions that feed into the reform process and capacity building activities in 
the selected 20 districts.  
 
The KS would also facilitate establishment of three consultative stakeholder fora: an Extension 
Forum (EF), a Research Forum (RF) and a Farmer/Client empowerment Forum (CF). The fora 
would function as places where policy and institutional reforms will be debated. A National 
Agricultural Forum (NAF) would also be established to ensure that reforms follow a common 
and coherent overall conceptual framework. The stakeholder fora eventually will collapse into 
the NAF once the new policy and institutional frameworks will be developed.
 
The fora will be 
duplicated at the district level in a single consultative forum system, which would be the result of 
representation aggregation processes that occur at division and lower levels.  
 
 
Component 2: Support to Extension System Reform
 
 
The component will build on achievements made under the NAEP framework by facilitating the 
development and internalization of a shared vision, strategy and policy that will help establish a 
new system of national extension service. Activities supported under the project will lead to the 
formulation and adoption of a new extension policy by 2006.  The activities under this 
component would: (a) clarify and rationalize roles, and functions between public, private and 
civil society organizations, (b) streamline and develop more effective and responsive public 
services, (c) enhance capacity among non-public extension service providers, and (d) increase 
performance and sustainability. This would be achieved through three subcomponents focused 
on institution building, learning pilots and capacity building. Universities and other education 
service providers will play a key role in addressing the human capacity needs in the sector.  
 
Sub-component 2.1: Facilitation of an Extension Reform Consultative Process.
 The sub-
component will support establishment of an EF secretariat that will coordinate the overall 
extension reform initiative, liaise with the district fora and DSU, KS and other stakeholders, and 
manage the day to day activities of the EF. Activities will also include: (i) establishment of a live 
database that would act as comprehensive inventory and institutional assessment of the main 
extension and education service providers operating in the country, and (ii) organization of 
learning events including study-tours.  
 
Sub-component 2.2: Learning pilots.
 Pilots will be established in twenty districts to support 
integrated and targeted extension activities. The pilots would be implemented using participatory 
assessment of needs and resources, which would be used to develop divisional Community 
Integrated Plans (CIP) as the planning basis for broader District Integrated Plans (DIP). The CIPs 
and DIPs would also indicate the extension approaches and demand-driven research activities to 
be piloted. KAPP will finance pilot extension approaches (10 per year, per district) identified 
within the context of CIPs  and provide investment to nascent business extension providers on a 
cost sharing and cost recovery basis. Service providers would draw on the existing resources and 
procedures as much as possible.  
 
Page  5
 
 
Sub-component 2.3: Capacity building
. The KAPP will strengthen district level capacity by 
providing training support of different kind to public staff, NGOs and CBOs and to the private 
sector service providers. Training needs assessment exercises will be conducted in each district 
to define specific plans and curricula (on participatory approaches, public role reorientation, 
planning-coordination-M&E, institution building, marketing, information and communication, 
technical and financial related skills).  
 
Component 3: Support to Research System Reform
 
 
The objective under KAPP’s research component will be to broaden and complete the unfinished 
reform agenda of the agricultural research sector so that it encompasses a plurality of actors and 
becomes a more efficient and accountable system. Reforms would: (i) increase the role of end-
users in activity planning, resource allocation, and implementation monitoring, (ii) promote 
performance/result based resource allocation, (iii) induce greater collaboration and synergy 
between and among public and private research institutions; (iv) ensure effective integration of 
research, education and extension services at local levels; (v) increase output of technologies and 
knowledge in response to national agenda to generate client level impact. This would be 
achieved through establishment of a national agricultural research system, pilot activities, and 
further support to KARI.    
 
Sub-component 3.1: Facilitation of a consultative process for the establishment of a NARS.
 The 
RF will establish a Secretariat, whose functions will be to coordinate, liaise and manage all 
activities related to the forum. The initial work program of the RF would include:  (i) 
comprehensive inventory and institutional assessment of all research organization institutions 
operating in Kenya; (ii) organization of learning activities; and (iii) a national technology 
development policy and related legal, institutional and implementation framework. 
 
Sub-component 3.2:
 Targeted activities to initiate the NARS’ Reform Process.
 
Targeted 
activities include: (i) piloting of national priority collaborative research programs across 
institutions, and on strategic, cross-sectoral and cross-cutting themes to be planed by the RF and 
endorsed by the NGF (e.g., HIV/AIDS, land and water degradation, market development and 
trade and rural credit); (ii) development and activation of specific policy instruments, 
institutional mechanisms and an incentive systems to forge collaboration and integration 
(common HRD strategy, ITC network, physical asset management policy, governance policy, 
etc.) including targeted capacity building of the scientific community; (iii) development of an 
operational sustainable funding mechanism for the entire NARS; and (iv) initial investments for 
the NARS rationalization process. 
 
Sub-component 3.3: Support to the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI).
 
The sub-
component will finance investments to support KARI’s transition into a more effective 
institution with increased field impact and capacity to extend and up-scale successful extension 
methodologies. KARI will be the leader among research institutions in terms of the quality of 
research management, of science and research outputs, as well as impact. To meet this vision 
investments under this component will focus on institutional strengthening, targeted expansion of 
research programs, information dissemination and income generating initiatives. 
Decentralization to Regional Research stations and empowerment of  CRACs would be priority 
Page  6
 
 
actions. The project will fund the implementation of an effective HRD strategy; a Management 
Information System to improve administrative, financial and technical management and to 
institutionalize M&E, IA and Beneficiary Assessments at all levels; as well as upgrading 
infrastructure, ICT and scientific equipment. 
 
 
Component 4: Support to Farmer/Client Empowerment
 
 
The component will help develop institutional and financial mechanisms that will give farmers  
control over extension and research services and increase their access to productivity enhancing 
products. As a first step, KAPP will help facilitate direct involvement by farmers in the reform 
process through client consultative structures at all levels, and provide means for improved 
access to information on technology and services. In addition, KAPP will provide targeted 
support to (i) scale-up application of technology innovations through establishment of service 
enterprise networks and (ii) build capacity of associations and commodity organizations. 
Training activities to build farmers’ institutional, management and technical capacities are also 
planned.
 
 
Sub-component 4.1: Facilitation of client consultative process
. 
Client fora (CF) will be 
established at both national, district and grass root level to guide and support farmer 
empowerment. In order to strengthen access to information, mass communication tools (radio, 
print media and newsletters, television programs and websites) will be utilized to target all 
segments of the client fora. Divisional fora farmer leaders would be supported to enhance their 
access to a transparent and continuous flow of information. 
 
Sub-component 4.2: Targeted interventions for Client Empowerment
.
 The sub-component will  
support qualified producer organizations to build their capacity to offer services that: (i) help 
farmers meet registration requirements; (ii) enhance client capacity to meet national and 
international marketing and certification standards and requirements; (iii) offer market link 
networking services to client members. On the basis on the Enterprise Plans, the KAPP will also 
facilitate the scaling-up of technology innovations through the establishment of 80 client 
networks and building on their own savings, help make investments that will scale up access to 
agricultural services for production, agro-processing, marketing and management of finances. 
 
Sub-component 4.3: Capacity building
. The capacity building sub-component would provide 
client training aimed at improving production, managing the natural resource base, processing 
and network marketing skills and developing client fora capacity to access and manage financial 
resources. Training needs would be assessed using participatory methods and compiled in district 
training plans. Client fora will be assisted to develop their own network of trainers. Agricultural 
education institutions that also register as service providers will have opportunity to access funds 
to deliver training.  
 
5. 
Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
 
 
Poor performance of public systems of research and extension globally has led to a number of 
lessons of experience that are incorporated in the design of the three phased APL.  Separate and 
poorly linked systems of research and extension yield low returns.  The content of extension is 
Page  7
 
 
impoverished when poorly linked with research, and the applications of research are thwarted 
when poorly linked to extension.  Neither research nor extension achieves high returns, even if 
well linked, if not attuned to the needs of actual clients; i.e., the farmers.  Well functioning 
systems of generation, dissemination, and adoption of technology require feedback loops through 
which farmers have a real voice in decisions. Although the public sector must remain active in 
research and extension, and in funding of both, private firms can be more cost effective and 
responsive to clients.  Producers are more influential and more effectively reached when they are 
organized, rather than atomized.  Subsidiarity must be observed in assigning responsibilities for 
public entities, and many of the appropriate public functions can be best performed at the local 
level.  Research and extension must address productive systems and natural resource 
management, as well as specific commodities.  Finally, consistent under-funding of agricultural 
research and extension, especially in Africa, leads to high indicators of marginal returns to 
investment, but to low measured impact on the ground, as modest efforts are spread very thinly.  
Each of these lessons has been reflected in the design of the operation and the road map for 
change envisioned in the Kenyan strategy.  An ambitious agenda of reform will lie ahead as 
these lessons are reflected in the design of programs.  
 
The lessons of NARP I and II also influenced the project design, particularly the need for: 
greater focus on end users, effective monitoring and evaluation, empowerment of regional 
research entities  and greater integration with the broader agriculture sector.  In addition, the 
generally positive experience in implementation of NARP I and II has influenced the proposed 
arrangements for implementation, and the decision to use the administrative capacity within 
KARI to best advantage, particularly in the early phase. 
 
6. 
Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
 
 
A follow-up project to the NARP II to consolidate the gains made under the two previous 
agricultural research project phases was considered but rejected. A follow-on project would be 
poorly able to capture the lessons of experience noted above, and would most likely be 
characterized by: a) a narrow technological focus compounded by moderate to low adoption 
rates of outputs; b) a centralized and tightly compartmentalized research system; c) poor ability 
to retain researchers because of limited career opportunities; d) a sub-optimal use of assets and/or 
redundant capital investment and; e) poor overall accountability of the entire system.  A simple 
continuation of past support to KARI would not capitalize on the readiness of KARI and other 
entities to create a more effective research system.  Nor would such an operation address the 
challenge implicit in the ERS and its demands on agriculture.  The proposed project incorporates 
the emphasis on technical excellence embodied in past support under NARP I and II, but moves 
beyond it to promote institutional change and greater impact on growth and poverty.   
 
The selection of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), instead of a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) 
was based on the following  reasons: (i) institutional development, agricultural technology 
generation and technology adoption are long-term processes that require sustained effort and 
support; (ii) development of a pluralistic research and extension system and the establishment of 
client empowering mechanisms requires flexibility throughout the project life; (iii)  the change in 
culture represented by the project approach requires a period of learning, generalized 
acknowledgement and refining as these strategies and plans are developed; and (iv) the phases 
Page  8
 
 
can be identified and triggers designed
. 
The structure of an APL allows the project to devote one 
phase to each of the reform design, implementation and consolidation objectives with triggers for 
each phase.   
 
6. 
Implementation
 
 
6.1 Partnership Arrangements
 
 
The KAPP has no formal partnership arrangements with other donors, but partnership through 
the entities created under KAPP is likely to expand as other donors clarify their approaches to 
increased support for Kenyan agriculture. The EU has indicated interest to coordinate its future 
interventions with the KAPP process. Consultative and planning mechanisms between GoK and 
donors operate at various levels with various degrees of efficiency and success. The Medium 
Term Expenditures Framework (MTEF) provides the most appropriate framework to implement 
such objectives as do various working groups on agriculture, food security, agricultural policy, 
extension and commercialization. KAPP would greatly benefit from a  reinvigorated working 
groups and close organic links to the MTEF processes.  
 
6.2.
Institutional and implementation arrangements
 
 
Sector-wide oversight Committee
. There will be 3 lead institutions: the Ministry of 
Agriculture, the Ministry of Livestock ad Fisheries Development, and the Kenya Agricultural 
Research Institute (KARI). Overall coordination will be under a KAPP Secretariat staffed by 
individuals from the key lead implementing agencies, as well as from the Kenya National 
Federation of Agricultural Producers representing the ultimate clients of the project services. 
 
Project overall Coordination
. The KAPP Secretariat will have responsibility for overall project 
coordination. The core of the secretariat is composed of an officer from the Ministry of 
agriculture, the Ministry of Livestock Development, KARI and KENFAP with full time 
appointments to the secretariat. Full time appointments are deemed necessary due to the demands 
of the reform agenda. The core team will be supported by a group of part time appointees from 
other stakeholder institutions.  
 
The secretariat has been designed to cut across institutions and integrate different institutional 
agendas into a focused reform strategy. Linking the KAPP secretariat to the Economic 
subcommittee of the cabinet, an inter-ministerial steering committee and the agricultural sector 
working group in the Ministry of Planning provides the necessary cross cutting links.  
 
Through implementation of the KAPP, the secretariat will seek to improve its own skills in 
managing reforms, interacting at high levels of Government, networking and successfully 
lobbying for desired outcomes. Often in the past Kenyan public employees knew what was 
wrong but had little voice or ability to drive change. The KAPP secretariat will seek to develop 
skills and opportunities for civil servants and others to contribute to the process of change.  
 
Project implementation
. The range of issues involved in raising agricultural productivity 
suggests a natural division of labor among institutions implementing different components. 
Page  9
 
 
 
Component 1.
  The agricultural sector institutional reform component will be implemented by 
the KAPP Secretariat.  
 
Component 2.
  The extension component will be implemented by the 2 ministries -- Agriculture, 
and Livestock and Fisheries Development. The institutionalization of an Extension Forum will 
bring input from private and civil society service providers, and any others interested in, or able 
to make a contribution toward improving extension services in Kenya. Universities, commodity 
organizations, NGOs and private input suppliers are expected to become members of this forum. 
The Extension Forum will be supported by an Extension Secretariat composed of individuals 
drawn from a range of extension stakeholders and including a coordinator from the broader 
KAPP secretariat. Funds for activities under this component will be coordinated by the KAPP 
secretariat and the line ministries, but may be contracted out to many different types of 
contractors, extension and training providers, and universities. 
 
Component 3
.  The research component will be implemented by KARI under the guidance of the 
inter-ministerial steering group. A Research Forum will bring in other research institutes, 
universities, and private sector organizations interested in agricultural research. This research 
forum will have its own secretariat as well as coordination by a member of the overall KAPP 
secretariat. 
 
Component 4
.  Farmer and client empowerment will be implemented by the District Agricultural 
Services Units (DSU) at the district level, and at national level by the KAPP secretariat. Capacity 
building activities will be ongoing at both levels. District Client Forums will help to determine 
which organizations are best placed to deliver specific capacity building interventions. 
 
Financial Management and Procurement
.  Financial management and procurement 
arrangements will be based on the successful procedures put in place by KARI. There will be 
need to build such capacity in other implementing institutions. However tying the KAPP 
secretariat closely to KARI should limit the bottlenecks in this regard, particularly if KARI can 
procure on behalf of other bodies.  
 
Flow of funds and accountabilities for financial reporting should piggyback on the existing 
KARI system. However since the project does not fall within a particular ministry it is proposed 
that a separate account be set up for the project at the national as well as district levels with 
appropriate checks and balances and audit trails to meet global accounting standards, and global 
standards for probity and transparency.   
 
 
7. Financing
 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 20 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION and GEF 
 
50 
 Total 
70 
Page  10
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
Sustainability
 
 
There are two major issues affecting sustainability of the project: 
 
Future financing for project initiated activities
:  
Well managed programs of agricultural research 
and extension yield public benefits and are appropriate long-term recipients of public funding.  A 
sustainable base of public funding requires an effective effort at monitoring and evaluation, and 
regular public education about the benefits achieved.  Voters and public officials who do not 
know what is accomplished by research and extension will not support needed appropriations.  
But public sources of finance are not sufficient, particularly as systems become pluralistic and 
the private agricultural sector becomes better developed and more complex.  The NARS needs to 
ensure that other adequate financial resources are made available in addition to funds from 
government and donors. The project will further support initiatives aiming at enhancing the 
sustainability of research activities and the diversification of income generating sources. The 
rationalization process within the NARS will also aim to promote economies of scale and 
efficient use available resources. The sustainability of  extension delivery mechanisms promoted 
by the  project will depend on the level of  public funding, increased willingness of clients to 
share costs, and investments made by the private sector.  It is expected that reforms towards a 
more efficient and pluralistic extension service will reduce the cost of services and incorporate 
cost-sharing mechanisms.  It is anticipated that  some of the extension services being offered by 
the government will be taken over by producer groups and commodity bodies as has happened 
with tea and to some extent dairy production.    
 
Institutional capacity:
 KAPP relies on institutional capacity to undertake reform and devolve 
control over resources to lower levels. As the program expands in phases II and III, capacity may 
become a constraint. The KAPP will attempt to avoid this by operating through existing 
structures and mechanisms enhanced by task groups and additional resource persons to build the 
required capacity, facilitate the reform process and eventually mainstream the program. Project 
successes would generate experiences of the reform processes, institutional arrangements and 
implementation modalities that would provide a set of good practices that could be replicable 
elsewhere.  
 
 
9. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
 
Poor performance of public systems of research and extension globally has led to a number of 
lessons of experience that are incorporated in the design of the three phased APL.  Separate and 
poorly linked systems of research and extension yield low returns.  The content of extension is 
impoverished when poorly linked with research, and the applications of research are thwarted 
when poorly linked to extension.  Neither research nor extension achieves high returns, even if 
well linked, if not attuned to the needs of actual clients; i.e., the farmers.  Well functioning 
systems of generation, dissemination, and adoption of technology require feedback loops through 
which farmers have a real voice in decisions. Although the public sector must remain active in 
research and extension, and in funding of both, private firms can be more cost effective and 
Page  11
 
 
responsive to clients.  Producers are more influential and more effectively reached when they are 
organized, rather than atomized.  Subsidiarity must be observed in assigning responsibilities for 
public entities, and many of the appropriate public functions can be best performed at the local 
level.  Research and extension must address productive systems and natural resource 
management, as well as specific commodities.  Finally, consistent under-funding of agricultural 
research and extension, especially in Africa, leads to high indicators of marginal returns to 
investment, but to low measured impact on the ground, as modest efforts are spread very thinly.  
Each of these lessons has been reflected in the design of the operation and the road map for 
change envisioned in the Kenyan strategy.  An ambitious agenda of reform will lie ahead as 
these lessons are reflected in the design of programs.  
 
The lessons of NARP I and II also influenced the project design, particularly the need for: 
greater focus on end users, effective monitoring and evaluation, empowerment of regional 
research entities  and greater integration with the broader agriculture sector.  In addition, the 
generally positive experience in implementation of NARP I and II has influenced the proposed 
arrangements for implementation, and the decision to use the administrative capacity within 
KARI to best advantage, particularly in the early phase. 
 
 
10. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[ X] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[X] 
[ ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) 
[ X] 
[ ] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[X ] 
 [ ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10) 
[X ] 
[ ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[X ] 
[ ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
 
KAPP is a safeguards category S2 and EA category B project.  These categories primarily reflect 
the potential for environmental degradation and inadequate natural resources management to 
affect the project rather than the reverse.  KAPP is a blended IDA and GEF operation, and 
project preparation included an SESA (see Annex 10) that established the framework for more 
strongly including effective response to environmental and social sustainability considerations in 
a reformed agricultural R&E system.  These broad considerations include safeguards concerns 
for reducing environmental and natural resource/habitat degradation, avoiding future 
degradation, and strengthening pesticide management and the use of integrated pest 
management.  Both IDA and GEF activities include policy/institutional development and 
capacity building that, 
inter alia
, will strengthen responses to environmental and social 
sustainability issues by a variety of public and private sector stakeholders in agricultural 
development.  Preparation of the KAPP involved consultation among public- and private-sector 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  12
 
 
stakeholders.  KAPP implementation includes, during APL1, a substantial process for civil 
society consultation to direct the reform of the agricultural R&E system, including its 
environmental and social sustainability dimensions.   
 
The SESA was disclosed through the World Bank Infoshop on 
[add date]
 and in Kenya on 
[add 
date].
 
 
 
 
11. 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
 
12. Contact 
point 
Contact: Moctar Toure 
Title: Lead Agriculture Services Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-9008 
Fax: (202) 473-8231 
Email: Mtoure@worldbank.org 
 
13. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
