                                           Documentof
                                         The World Bank

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                         ReportNo: 28261-KE




                            PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                                   PROPOSEDIDA CREDIT
                           INTHEAMOUNTOFSDR 18MILLION
                              (USD27 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              AND

                                   PROPOSEDIDA GRANT
                           INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR8.7 MILLION
                              (USD 13 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF KENYA

                                             FOR A

             KENYA AGRICULTURALPRODUCTIVITYPROJECT(KAPP)
                  INSUPPORTOFTHEFIRSTPHASEOFTHEKENYA
                      AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITYPROGRAM

                                          JUNE 17,2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                         (ExchangeRateEffectiveMarch22,2004)
                             CurrencyUnit = KenyaShillings
                                          76 = US$1
                                     US$.67 = SDR1
                                       FISCALYEAR
                                      July1    - June30

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL       Adaptable ProgramLoan
A R I S   Agricultural ResearchInvestment Service
ASARECA   Association for Strengthening Agric. ResearchinEastern and Central Africa
ATIRI     Agricultural Technology and InformationResponseInitiative
AWP       Annual Work Plan
CAG       Controller and Auditor General
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBO       Community Based Organization
CBS       Central Bureauo f Statistics
CF        Client EmpowermentForum
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIP       Community IntegratedPlan
CRL4      Community Resource Assessment
C M C     Centre ResearchAdvisory Committee
CRF       Coffee ResearchFoundation
CSIC      Community Sub-project Implementation Committees
CSP       Community sub-projects
DFID      Department for International Development (UK)
DFA       DevelopmentFinancingAgreement
DIP       District IntegratedPlan
DSU       District Service Unit
ERS       Economic Recovery Strategy
EU        EuropeanUnion
FA0       Food and Agriculture Organization
FFS       Farmer Field School
FMR       FinancialMonitoringReport
FMS       FinancialManagement Specialist
FRR       FinancialRates o f Return
FSA-RET   Farming Systems Approach -Research ExtensionTraining
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GEF       Global Environment Facility
CIGs      Common Interest Group(s)
GOK       Government o f Kenya
GTZ       German Technical Assistance
HIV/AIDS  Human Immunodeficiency Syndrome/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
HRD       Human Resource Development
ICB       InternationalCompetitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
ICT       InformatiodCommunication Strategy
IDA       Intemational Development Association


                                                                                       ..
                                                                                       11

                                                             FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
       IFAD    International Fundfor Agricultural Development
       ISC     Inter-ministerial Steering Committee
       JKUAT   Jomo Kenyatta Universityo f Agriculture & Technology
       KAPP    Kenya Agricultural Productivity Project
       KARI    Kenya Agricultural ResearchInstitute
       KEFRI   Kenya Forestry ResearchInstitute
       KEMFRI  Kenya Marine and Fisheries ResearchInstitute
       KENFAP  KenyaNational Federation o f Agricultural Producers
       KIOF    Kenya Institute of Organic Farming
       KIRDI   Kenya Industrial ResearchDevelopment Institute
       K S     W     P Secretariat
            I
       LSP     Letter of Sectoral Policy
       LVEMP   Lake Victoria Environmental Management Project
       M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
       MDG     MillenniumDevelopment Goals
       M O A   MinistryofAgriculture
       MOF     Ministryof Finance
       MOL&FD  Ministry of Livestock andFisheries Development
       MTEF    MediumTerm ExpenditureFramework
       MTP     MediumTerm Plan
       NAEP    National Agricultural Extension Policy
       NFF     National Farmers Forum
       NALEP   National Agricultural Livestock Extension Project
       NARP    National Agricultural Research Project
       NARS    National Agriculture Research System
       NCB     National Competitive Bidding
       NPV     Net Present Value
       OED
       osc     Operations Evaluation Department
               One-stop-centre
       PLAR    Participatory LearningAppraisal for Research
       PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
       PSMTA   Public Sector Management Technical Assistance
       R&E      Research & Extension
       REARC   Regional Extension and Research Committee
       SESA     Sectoral Environmental and Social Assessment
       SIDA     Swedish InternationalDevelopment Agency
       SIL      Specific Investment Loan
       SOE      Statement o f Expenditure
       SRA      Strategy for Revitalizing Agriculture
       SRA-ICC  SRA- Inter-ministerial Coordination Committee
       SRA-NF   SRA- National Forum
       TIC     Technical Inter-ministerial Steering Committee
       TRF     Tea Research Foundation
       UNDB    UnitedNations Development Business
       USAID   United States Agency for International Development
      -
                                   Vice President:      Callisto Madavo
                     Country Managermirector:           Makhtar Diop
                                  Sector Manager:       Karen McConnell Brooks
                              Task Team Leader:         Moctar Toure


This document hasa restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.                                                     -


                                                           CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                   Page

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                               .................................................................      1
 Country and sector issues............................................................................................................                  1
 Rationale for Bank involvement.................................................................................................                        1
 Higher level objectives to which the project contributes. ...........................................................                                  2

B
.  PROGRAMDESCRIPTION                             ...............................................................................................       2
 Lending instrument.....................................................................................................................                2
 Program objective andphases.....................................................................................................                       2
 Project development objective andkey indicators......................................................................                                  3
 Project components ....................................................................................................................                4
 Lessons leamed and reflected inthe project design....................................................................                                  7
 Altematives considered and reasons for rejection ......................................................................                                8

C. IMPLEMENTATION                     ..........................................................................................................        9
 Partnership Arrangements ...........................................................................................................                   9
 Institutional and ImplementationArrangements ........................................................................                                  9
 Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomeshesults........................................................................                                 11
 Sustainability.............................................................................................................................
       *    . .                                                                                                                                        12
 Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects.......................................................................                               12
 Credit conditions and covenants ...............................................................................................                        13

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                            .................................................................................................        14
 Economic and financial analyses..............................................................................................                          14
 Technical...................................................................................................................................           15
 Fiduciary ...................................................................................................................................          16
 Environment and social.............................................................................................................                    16
 Safeguard policies.....................................................................................................................                17
 PolicyExceptions andReadiness..............................................................................................                            17

Annex 1: CountryandSector or ProgramBackground                                           .........................................................      18

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies                                                                 .................22


                                                                                                                                                        iv

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                       ........................................................................  24

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description            ......................................................................................   31

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................     46

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                  .................................................................................   47

Annex 7: Financial Management          ...............................................................................................    51

Annex 8: Procurement  ................................................................................................................    61

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                   .............................................................................  70

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues          ............................................................................................    77

Annex 11: Government Letter of Sectoral Policy                       .................................................................... 82

Annex 12: Project Preparation and Supervision                      .....................................................................  88

Annex 13: Documents inthe Project File                .................................................................................   89

Annex 14: Statement of Loans and Credits                  ..............................................................................  90

Annex 15: Country at a Glance        .................................................................................................    93



Map: Number 33228 .   KAPPLearning Pilot Districts: Phase One




                                                                                                                                           V

                       A. STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE

Countryand sector issues

Despite steady growth inthe immediate post independence period, Kenya's economy has
performed considerably below its potentialinrecent years. For the past two decades
productivity has declined, competitiveness eroded, and international financial support
diminished. Poverty and food insecurity have increased. Average GDP growth declined from
about 7% inthe 1970stojust over 2% inthe 1990s. Underlyingfactors include persistent and
pervasive governance problems, poorly implementedreforms, and low, illtargeted investments
insocial services, infrastructure, and economic services.

Kenya's agricultural sector generally mi.rrored the poor performance of the economy duringthe
same period. Average annual agricultural GDP growth fell from 3.5 percent duringthe 1980sto
 1.0 percent duringthe 1990s. External factors such as declining global agricultural commodity
prices andvulnerability to climatic shocks explain part, but not all of the decline. Domestic
policy shortcomings created distortions ininput andoutput markets. Inadequacies inthe legal
andregulatory framework raised costs ofbusiness. Poor infrastructure increasedcosts o f
marketing. Highincidence o fHIV/AIDS contributed to reduced labor productivity.
Dysfhctional public support services slowed the renewal o f agricultural technology. The end
result has been increased rural poverty and food insecurity, decline incompetitiveness, and
virtual cessation o fbothprivate andpublic investment inthe agricultural sector.

The new Government's development strategy to address the above issues was most recently
articulated in the Economic Recovery Strategy for Wealth and Employment Creation (ERS)
(2003-2007). The strategy identifies agriculture, trade and industry and tourism as the prime
movers o f the recovery program and places particular emphasis on sustainable agricultural
growth as a critical element inpoverty reduction. The Government has also launched a Strategy
for Revitalizing Agriculture (SRA) whose objective is "to provide a policy and institutional
environment that i s conducive to increasing agricultural productivity, promoting investments,
encouraging private sector involvement inagricultural enterprises and agribusiness."

The proposed Kenya Agricultural Productivity Project ( W P ) will contribute to the
revitalization o f agriculture by: (i) facilitating empowerment o f farmers to access and apply
profitable and sustainable technologies; (ii)   laying the groundwork for a pluralistic agricultural
extension and learning system; (iii)integrating and rationalizing the national agricultural
research system; and (iv) supporting analytical work to inform policy andinstitutional reform.

Rationalefor Bank involvement

Kenya's agricultural performance must turn around quickly and effectively ifthe country i s to
recover lost ground andmake progress toward meeting the MillenniumDevelopment Goals
(MDG) for eradicating poverty andhunger. Thepublic sector must play a significant role inthis
process, but over the past decade many external partners withdrew support, both technical and
financial. As a consequence, recent and existing donor interventions have been fragmented and
piecemeal. The new Government has recognized the need for ambitious reforms to improve



                                                                                                  1

agricultural productivity, and seeks partnership rich inideas, coordination andinvestment. The
Bank is well qualified to provide leadership on all three elements, buildingon a foundation o f
support for agricultural research inKenya and intellectual leadership inreforms o f agricultural
services inthe region and globally. Perhaps more importantly, no other major partner is ina
position to provide the needed partnership ina timelymanner.

Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The project will contribute to the Bank's overarching CAS goal o fhelping to reverse Kenya's
decline ineconomic growth and equity. Specifically, the project will contribute towards
achieving the CAS sectoral goal o f increasing agricultural productivity. The project is closely
aligned with Kenya's ERSPRSP, which is centered around three pillars: economic growth with
macroeconomic stability, equity and poverty reduction, and improved govemance. The project
supports these goals by contributing to: (i) higher farm real incomes through increasedadoption
o fprofitable and environmentally soundtechnologies, particularly among smallholders and
subsistence farmers; (ii) raising the productivity o f public investments; (iii)
                                                                               improving the
climate for private investment inagriculture and for private provision o f agricultural services;
and(iv) developing options and actions to improve the policy andregulatory framework in
agriculture. The project will also support the Government's effort to decentralize authority and
responsibility for service delivery to local governments as part o f the process o f devolution.

                                 B. PROGRAMDESCRIPTION

Lendinginstrument

A phasedAdaptable ProgramLoan(APL)lendinginstrument isproposedinlight o fthe long
periodrequiredto succeed with reforms o f agricultural services, and the logic o f separating the
credit period into distinct phases with identifiable triggers. The APL combines both IDA credit
and grant facilities. This would be supplemented by a de-linked but associated GEF grant which
will support sustainable landmanagementpractices andtechnologies.

 Propramobjective and phases

The long-term objective o f the program is to contribute to sustainable increase o fKenya's
agricultural productivity and improvement o fthe livelihoods o f its rural communities through the
improved performance o fthe agricultural technology supply and demand system. To achieve
this objective, three project phases o f 3,4, and 5 years periods are anticipated.

Phase I(2004-2007) will support continuation o f ongoing reforms inagricultural research,
initiation o f aparticipatory process o f change inextension services and farmer empowerment,
pilot testing o f extension methods and delivery systems, and adoption o f improved farming
systems for natural resource management inselected areas o f highrisk. More specific activities
will include: (i) progress toward establishment o f a pluralistic research system, with continued
support for reform o f KARI; (ii)  a process to buildconsensus for the reform o f extension
services and the empowerment o f client; (iii)  pilot interventions in20 districts (see map) to test
innovative and decentralized extensiodresearcWeducation activities; and (iv) initiation o f



                                                                                                    2

activities for improved management o f soil andwater (expected to be supported by an associated
GEFproject) in5 selected catchment areas.

Subsequent phases o f the program will focus on consolidating reforms inresearch, implementing
reforms inextension, andbuildingthe basis for sustainable financing o f the entire system. Phases
I1andI11haveanticipatedbudgets o fUS$ 70millionandUS$ 100millionrespectively. The
Government has confirmed the acceptance o fthe objective and scope o fthe overall program ina
letter o f sectoral policy (LSP) to the Bank (Annex 12). Triggers for moving into the second
phase include:

    National extensionpolicy and related institutional andimplementation framework approved
    by GOK
    Two cycles ofproject monitoring and evaluation completed, with at least 85% o f the district
    intervention impacts evaluated
    At least 60% o fthe KARIcomponent implementedandevaluated as satisfactory

Triggers for moving from the second to thirdphase will be refined duringproject implementation
butwill include:

    Implementation o f a demand driven andpluralistic national extension system countrywide
    NARS responsible for allocation o f 25% o fpublic agricultural researchbudget
    Client fora created and active inall districts inKenya

Proiect development obiective and kev indicators

The project's development objective is to improve the overall system by supporting generation,
dissemination, and adoption o f agricultural technology through: (i)reforms inextension to
increase pluralism, responsiveness to clients, andparticipation byprivate providers; (ii)an
evolutionary change inthe existing system o f agricultural research to improve accountability and
impact; and (3)increased empowerment o f producer organizations to influence the planning,
design, implementation, funding and monitoring and evaluation o f research, extension, training
andcapacitybuildingactivities.

Key performance indicators:

Phase one results will be monitoredby the following key performance indicators:

    NARS action plan adopted inyear two and implementation initiated by year three
    Collaborative activities occupy 50% o fproject financing to n o n - U research institutes
    Inventory o fKARItechnologies andinstitutional capabilities carried out and database
    developed by end o f year one, andupdated annually thereafter
    Progressive devolution o f KARIresource allocation and accountability for adaptive research
    programs to centers and center research advisory committees
    Six extension approaches tested andproven cost effective



                                                                                                3

    Twenty client fora created and functioning at district and divisional level
    Forty producer organizations investing intechnology multiplication

Annex 3 details the proposed indicators for different project components and hierarchy.

Proiectcomponents

Component 1: Facilitationof PolicyandInstitutionalReforms(US$7.90million, including
6.93 millionIDA credit and0.97 Governmentcontribution)

The first component will support establishment o fthe institutional framework requiredto
increase agricultural productivity inKenya. It will be organically linkedto the institutional
framework set up bythe Government to implement the SRA.

Activities will include creation o f coordination structures and consultative fora, andprovision o f
resources for these entities andthe Government more generally to develop and/or access the
informationbase required to guide action. The project will also support the MOA andMOLFD
inbuildingnationalcapacityandbyprovidingtechnical assistance for policy analysis, and
targeted investments for public extension services bycapturing the lessons being generated by
project activities, and to draw on existingnational and international experience andknowledge.

The project will support two Government structures created to implement the SRA: (i)            an Inter-
ministerial Coordination Committee (SRA-ICC) composed o f Permanent Secretaries o f all
sector related ministries (Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries Development, Cooperatives,
Water, Environment andNatural Resources, Local Government andLands), to provide
coherence and direction to the reform process; and (ii)         a National Forum (SRA-NF) to ensure
that proposedreforms follow a common and coherent overall framework inlinewith stakeholder
analysis and views.

Three project organs will be funded to carry out the following activities: (i)       the KAPP Secretariat
(KS),whichprovides overall coordinationofthe program, while overseeing the Monitoringand
Evaluation and Information and Communication functions; (ii)               the KAPP Steering Committee
(withchief executives anddirectors o fthe concerned ministries andagencies) which act as a
liaisonbetween the Ministries andpublic institutions, and the KAPP; and (iii)          District Service
Units (DSU) to coordinate and implementtargeted pilot interventions that feed into the reform
process and capacity buildingactivities inthe selected 20 districts.

Component2: Supportto ExtensionSystemReform(US$3.46 million,including3.42
millionIDA grant and 0.04 millionGovernmentcontribution)

The component will build on achievements made under the National Agricultural Extension
Policy (NAEP) framework by facilitating the development and internalization o f a shared vision,
strategy andpolicy that will help establish a new system ofnational agricultural extension,
Extension related activities supported under the project will leadto the formulation and adoption

'see Annex 4 for detailed description and Annex 5 for detailed project costs.


                                                                                                         4

o f a revised extension policy andits implementation framework by 2007. The activities under
this componentwould: (i) andrationalize theroles and functions o fpublic, private and
                             clarify
civil society organizations; (ii) streamline and develop more effective andresponsive public
services; (iii)enhance capacity among non-public extension service providers; and (iv) increase
performance and sustainability o f the system.

Sub-component2.1: Support to Extension Svstem Reform - Inputs into the Policv Formulation
Process. The National Forum, ledby anExtensionTask Force, will coordinate the overall
extension reform initiative, through a broadly representative consultativeprocess including all
the major agricultural extension players as well as clients (research, farmers and market agents).
Activities will also include: (i) establishment o f a internet-based database that would act as
comprehensive inventory and institutional assessment o fthe main extension and education
service providers operating inthe country, as well as a reference base on the various extension
methodologies/approachesused; and (ii)      organization o f learning events including study tours.

Sub-component2.2: Learning Pilots and Cauacitv Building. Pilots will be established intwenty
districts to support targeted extensionactivities which will be implemented usinginnovative
delivery systems and extension methodologies. The pilots would be selected through a
participatory assessment o f needs and resources, which would be used to develop divisional
Community IntegratedPlans (CIP) as the planning basis for broader District IntegratedPlans
(DIP). These CIPs andDIPSwouldthen determine the extension approaches anddemand-driven
research activities to be pilotedthrough Farmer Grants for service provision. KAPP will pilot up
to six different permutations o f delivery systems and extension approaches, andprovide training
andfhding to strengthenthe district level capacity o fextension service providers to carry out
the pilots. These could be public staff, NGOs, CBOs, or private sector service providers. A
training needs assessment will be conducted ineach district to define specific plans and curricula
on participatory approaches, public role reorientation, planning, coordination andM&E,
institution building, marketing, information and communication, technical and financial related
skills.


Component3: Supportto ResearchSystemReform(US$53.71 million, including20.08
millionIDA Credit, 4.28 millionIDAGrant, and 29.35 million Governmentcontribution)

The objective under KAPP's research component will be to reform the agricultural research
sector so that it encompasses a plurality o f actors andbecomes more efficient and accountable.
Reforms would: (i)   increase the role o f end-users inplanningo f activities, resource allocation,
and monitoring o f implementation; (ii)   promoteperformance/result based resource allocation;
(iii) greatercollaborationandsynergybetweenandamongpublicandprivateresearch
      induce
institutions; (iv) ensure effective integration o f research, education and extension services at
local levels; and (v) increase the volume o f appropriate technologies andknowledge generated
and applied. This would be achievedthrough establishment o f a National Agricultural Research
System (NARS), pilot collaborative research activities, and firther support to KARI.

Sub-component3.1: Development of a NARSPolicv and Institutional Framework (IDA Grant
financed) A Research Task Force (RTF) will be established, composed o frepresentatives from
all major agricultural research actors as well as clients (extension and farmers). The RTFwill


                                                                                                    5

report to the National Forum andbe supported inits activities bythe KAPP Secretariat. As the
primarydriver o fthe reformprocess, the RTFwould undertake aninitialwork program that
includes: (i)  a comprehensive inventory and institutional assessment o f all research institutions
operating inKenya, including assessment o f technologies generated, methodologies and
approaches, and institutional capacity, presented ina report and database; (ii) through
                                                                                leaming
study tours; (iii)a vision for a NARS, including a framework for prioritization and operation;
and(iv) a roadmap andtime-bound implementationplanto move towards the NARS (including a
rationalizationplan).

Targeted activities, which will buildupon the findings o f the inventory will include: (i)piloting
o f collaborative research programsthrough Research Grants across institutions focused on
thematic areas o fhighpriority, selected bythe National Farmers' Forum (NFF) (e.g., HN/AIDS,
landandwater degradation, market development andtrade andrural credit); (ii)      developing tools
for collaboration; (iii)targeted capacity buildingo f the scientific community outside KARI; (iv)
development o f an operational and sustainable funding mechanism for the entire NARS; and (v)
initial investments inthe NARS rationalizationprocess.

Sub-component 3.2: Support to the Kenva Agricultural ResearchInstitute (KAIU) (IDA Credit
financed). This sub-component will finance the implementation ofpriority researchprograms in
crops (food, horticultural and industrial), animal production andhealth, land andwater
management, agricultural biotechnology, socio-economics andbiometrics, as well as cross-
cutting programs inadaptive research, and indeveloping sustainable sources of funding for
KARIresearch. Investments will be targeted to support KARI's transition into amore effective
institution with increased field impact and capacity to extend and expand successful
methodologies. Reforms and activities will buildupon the results o f recent external reviews o f
KARTprograms, which will be disseminated widely amongst KARIstaffprior to KAPP
effectiveness. These activities are targeted at: (i)
                                                   enhancing KARI's ability to demonstrate
sizable field impact by addressing shortcomings inits capacity and approaches to extend andup-
scale successful technologies (including grants to farmers through the ATIRI program); (ii)
improving its research planning, review and approval processes to reflect changes prompted by
feedbacks from end-users and or emerging challenges andto improve accountability; (iii)
revising the quality review and assuranceprocess; (iv) paying greater attention to socio-
economic aspects within a biologically-dominated research system; (vi) buildingan adequate
ICT infrastructure; and (v) improving KART'Sworking environment andthe incentive structure
for scientists. The consolidation of KARIwill need to be progressively consistent with the
envisaged integratedrationalization plan o fthe NARS and with the new extensionpolicy
framework.

Component4: Support to FarmerKlientEmpowerment(US$5.32 million, including 5.31
 millionIDA Grant and 0.01 millionGovernmentcontribution)

The component will help develop institutional and financial mechanisms that will give farmers
control over extension andresearch services and increase their access to productivity enhancing
products. As a first step, KAPP will help facilitate direct involvement by farmers inthe reform
process through client consultative structures at all levels, andprovide means for improved
access to information on technology and services. Inaddition, KAPP will provide targeted



                                                                                                   6

support to: (i)scale-up application o ftechnology innovations through establishment o f farmers
networks as they grow into producer organizations; and (ii)         buildcapacity o ffarmers' umbrella
associations and commodity organizations. Training activities to buildfarmers' institutional,
management and technical capacities are also planned.

Sub-component 4.I:Institutions-for Farmer Organization and Empowerment. Farmers Fora (FF)
will be established at national, district andgrassroots level as the principal consultativeorgans
for farmers and other clients to articulate their demands. Farmers fora will guide and support
farmer empowerment. Inorder to strengthenaccess to information, mass communication tools
(radio, print media andnewsletters, television programs andwebsites) will be utilized to increase
participationinthe farmers fora. Divisional fora farmer leaders would be supported to enhance
their access to a transparent andcontinuous flow o f information at the district level.

Client training aimed at improving production, managingthe natural resource base, processing
andnetwork marketing skills and developing farmer capacityto access andmanage financial
resources will be carried out. Training needs would be assessedusingparticipatory methods and
compiled indistrict training plans. FF will be assisted to develop their own network o f trainers,
Agricultural education institutions that also register as service providers will have opportunity to
access funds to deliver training2.

Sub-component 4.2: Targeted interventions-for Client Emuowerment. The project will support
through grants to qualified producer organizations to buildtheir capacity to offer services that: (i)
help farmers meet registration requirements; (ii)       enhance client capacity to meet national and
internationalmarketing and certification standards andrequirements; and (iii) market link
                                                                                      offer
networking services to client members. Onthe basis o f EnterprisePlans, the KAPP will also
finance through farmer grants the scaling-up o f technology innovations through the
establishment of approximately 80 client networks and help make investments that will scale up
access to agricultural services for production, agro-processing, marketing andmanagement o f
finances.

GEFcross-cuttinp interventions. TheKAPP-GEFactivitieswould addvalue to the KAPP-IDA
baseline investments by supporting incremental investmentsthat enhance local capacity to
support sustainable landmanagement (SLM) and address land degradation ina manner that
preserves or restores ecosystem integrity, functions, and services.

GEF activities would includepromotion of specific SLMbest management practices and
technologies for enhanced ecosystem integrity, alignment o fpolicies and incentives to empower
poor f m e r s and communities to adopt S L Mpractices, information exchange and awareness
creation, participatory and multidisciplinary SLM, andpromotion o f appropriate public-private
sector stakeholder partnerships for enhanced catchment management,

Lessons learned and reflected in the proiect design

Past performance of public systems of research and extension globally has ledto a number o f
lessons of experience that are incorporated inthe design o fthe three phased APL. Many of the

* Forexample, Farmers Training Colleges, Dairy Institutes and Beekeeping Institutes.


                                                                                                      7

lessons have beenpainful, and have led to new thinkingindesign o f agricultural services.
Separate andpoorly linked systems o f research and extension yield low retums. The content o f
extensionis impoverished when poorly linked with research, and the applications o f research are
thwarted when poorly linked to extension. Neither researchnor extension can achieve high
retums, even ifwell linked, ifboth are not attuned to the needs o f actual clients. Effective
systems o f technology generation, dissemination, and adoption require feedback loops through
which farmers have a real voice indecisions. Although the public sector should finance and
remain active inresearch and extension, private firms can deliver these services ina more
effective andresponsive way. Research and extension must address productivity increase, ina
range o f highto marginal production environments. Also, special emphasis needs to be given to
strategic commodity crops. Inall cases, natural resources must be managedoptimally. An
integratedapproach i s envisaged inthis project inorder to synchronize research, extension and
farmer empowerment initiatives for maximal synergies. Incontrast, consistent under-funding of
agricultural research and extension, especially inAfrica has led to low measured impact on the
ground, as modest efforts have been spread very thinly, and have worked independently,

The lessons o fNARP Iand 11, including the recent ICR of NARP11, also influencedthe project
design, particularly the need for: greater focus on end users; effective monitoring and evaluation;
empowerment o f regional research entities; and greater integration with the broader agriculture
sector. Inaddition, the generally positive experience inimplementation o f NARPIand I1has
influencedthe proposedarrangements for implementation, and the decision to use the
administrative capacity within KARIto best advantage, particularly inthe early phase.

Alternatives considered and reasons for reiection

A follow-up project to the NARPI1to consolidate the gains made under the two previous
agricultural research projects was considered but rejected. A follow-on project would be poorly
able to capture the lessons o f experience noted above, andwould most likely be characterized by:
(i)narrowtechnologicalfocuscompoundedbymoderatetolowadoptionratesofoutputs;(ii)
    a                                                                                               a
centralized andtightly compartmentalizedresearch system; (iii)     poor ability to retain researchers
because of limited career opportunities; (iv) a sub-optimal use o f assets and/or redundant capital
investment; and (v) poor overall accountability o f the entire system. A simple continuation o f
past support to KARIwould not capitalize on the readiness o f KARIand other entities to create a
more effective research system. Nor would such an operation address the challenge implicit in
the ERS andits demands on agriculture. The proposedproject incorporates the emphasis on
technical excellence embodiedinpast support under NARPIand 11,but moves beyond it to
promote institutional change and greater impact on growth and poverty.

The selection of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), insteado f a Specific Investment Loan(SIL)
derives from several reasons. Development o f institutions andpromotion o f generation and
adoption o ftechnology are long-term processes that require sustained effort and support.
Creation o f a pluralistic research and extension system andthe establishment o f client
empowering mechanisms require flexibility throughout the project life. The change inculture
represented by the proposed approach requires a period o f leaming, generalized
acknowledgement andrefining as strategies andplans are developed. The structure o f an APL
allows the project to proceed sequentially, with triggers for each phase.



                                                                                                    8

                                     C. IMPLEMENTATION

PartnershipArrangements

The SRA has set up the objectives, framework and principles for effective partnership inthe
sector. Itrecognizes and values the role o f development partners inproviding not only resources
but also technical assistance, training andinternational experience, but advocates for apro-active
andconsistent Government-led donor coordination. KAPPwill buildonthis framework to
define and organize its partnership arrangements with other donors. Partnership through the
entities created under KAPP is likely to expand, as other donors clarify their approaches to
increased support for Kenyan agriculture. The EU, DFID andDANIDAhave indicated an
interest to coordinate their future interventionswith the KAPPprocess. KAPP will also work
andsupport where necessary the extension initiatives supported by SIDA under the NALEP
project.

InstitutionalandImplementationArrangements

Sector Wide Coordination: KAPPwill be implementedunder the framework o fthe Kenya
Government Strategy for the Revitalization o fAgriculture. KAPP will receive inter-ministerial
coordination and policy guidance from organs already set up by Government to implement the
SRA andother Government initiatives inthe sector, namely, a broad based Inter-ministerial
Coordinating Committee (SRA-ICC) initially composed o f Permanent Secretaries from the seven
ministries o f Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries Development, Cooperative Development,
Water, Environment andNatural Resources, Lands, and Local Government. A National Forum
(NF)will also be established, consistingofall stakeholders operatingthe sector.

Project Coordination: A KAPP Steering Committee composed o f the Directors o fKARI,
NEMA, Veterinary Services, Livestock andAgriculture, Fisheries, representatives o fKENFAP,
andrepresentatives o fthe Ministries o fCooperativeDevelopment, Ministryo fNatural
Resources and Wildlife Mgmt, Ministry o f Finance, civil society, NGOs and CBOs will be
appointedby the SRA-ICC, to oversee project implementation.

Project Implementation: KAPPwill be implementedby 3 agencies, the Ministryo fAgriculture,
the Ministryo f Livestock and Fisheries Development andKARI. Overall coordination o f the
implementationwill beassumed by the KAPP Secretariat (KS). Responsibility for
implementation o f all non-KARI components will formally rest with the K S but KARIwill retain
responsibility for financial management andprocurement inbothKARIandnon-KARI
components. The K S will be responsible for managing the consultative processes, as well as
coordinating the information, monitoring, evaluation and analytical input into those processes,
information communication andpublic relations associated with KAPP. The K S will also be
secretary to the KAPP Steering Committee, andconvener o f project specific consultative
processes at the national level that could include extension andresearch taskforces related to the
NFF. The secretariat will be staffedbyprofessionals, recruitedthrough an open and competitive
process.



                                                                                                  9

Implementationinthe districts will be the responsibility o f20 District Service Units (DSU).
DSUs will undertake the district-delegated functions o f the KAPP Secretariat. They will: (i)   be
the secretary to the District Farmers Forum; (ii)  coordinate, inconsultation with the District
Development Committee (DDC), all consultative, planningandimplementationprocesses at the
district anddivision levels; and (iii)assume monitoring and evaluation, financial management
andpublic relations functions. EachD S Uwill have at least two professional staff, a District
Coordinator and a Monitoringand Evaluation Specialist, and a supporting accountant, secretary
and driver. The D S Uwill be steered by an expanded District Agricultural Committee (DAC),
composed of representatives o f line departments and implementing agencies, local NGO's
CBO's andprivate sector representatives. The District Coordinator will play an active and
supportive role inDDC's and DAC. However, the project specific organs (KARI, KS and DSU)
will take fullresponsibility for the implementationo fproject activities and accounting for project
funds.

Administration of Farmer and Research Grants. Inorder to guide implementationo fpilot
extension activities, the government will prepare separatemanuals for research a farmer grants.
The Farmer Grant Manual (FGM) andResearch Grant Manual (RGM) will set out details of: (i)
activities to be financed by farmer or research grants, beneficiaries and eligibility criteria; (ii)
arrangements andprocedures for preparation, appraisal, approval, implementation and
supervision o f activities to be financed by grants; (iii)
                                                         procurement, financial management and
disbursement arrangements; (iv) performance indicators; (v) standardformats for Farmer or
Research Grant Agreements; and (vi) such other administrative, financial and organizational
arrangements as shall be required for providing grants. The D S Uwill provide farmer grants to
farmer groups inaccordance with procedures and eligibility criteria set forth inthe FGM.
Individual farmer grants will have a ceiling of $15,000 per year while individual research grants
shall not exceed $20,000 for individual scientists and $ 75,000 for research institutions and
universities.

Financial Management and Procurement. Financialmanagement andprocurement
arrangements will be based on the successful procedures put inplace by KARI.Thus, for phase
one, the day to day financial andprocurement management responsibilitieswill be delegated to
KARI. Although KARIwill retainthe ultimateresponsibility for project financial management
and procurement for the duration o fphase I,KARIwill buildfinancial and procurement
capacity withinthe KS and other implementinginstitutions with the view o f gradually devolving
responsibility to them by the end o f the first phase. Flow o f funds and financial reporting will
buildonKARI's existing system whichhas provedreliable underprevious IDAcredits. GOK
will establish two US $ special accounts, one for the IDA credit andone for the IDA grant. The
special accounts will receive dollar deposits from the main IDA credit or grant. Three local
currency project operatingaccounts will be opened. Two will be operated bythe KS andKARI
(one for IDA Credit and the other for IDA Grant) andthe other byKARIalone ( IDA credit).
These will form the primary source o f financing for project activities to be implemented
(managed) directly by the respective implementing agencies, who will be responsible for the
proper use and accountability o f the funds. Every district will open a local currency project
account with a commercial bank at the district level, to be operated by the authorized signatories
(refer to Annex 7).



                                                                                                   10

Initially, disbursements will be made on the basis o f SOEs, direct payment and special
commitments. The report-based disbursements (FMR) will be progressively introduced and
shouldbe fully effective by the end o fphase one. The responsibility for presenting KAPP
annual counterpart budget proposals to the Ministryo fFinancewill be delegated to KARIduring
phase one. The devolution o f financial and procurement management responsibilities from
KARIto the KS shouldbeeffective before the closingofphaseone. Tyingthe KAPP Secretariat
closely to KARIshould limit disbursement and procurement bottlenecks duringphase one, and
facilitate capacity buildinginpreparation for phase two.

MonitorinP and evaluation of outcomes/results

The M& E framework was developed duringproject preparation andwill be fully
operationalizedprior to project effectiveness. Performance indicators have been established for
the project and its components. These are presented inthe Results Framework inAnnex 3. The
system for determining project baselines andperformance against those indicators has been
designed using a two-track approach that documents program and institutional results. There
will be institution-basedinternalplanning,monitoring and evaluation activities that arepart of
the normal internal management process on the one hand, and independent outsourced external
reviews and impact assessments on the other. The contracted out activities have been explicitly
built into the project design.

The consultative nature o f the project will help to ensure the participatory nature o f M&E
activities. The principle o fparticipation will be carried through the planning process as an
integralpart o fthe project. Individual managers and institutions at the national as well as district
anddivision levelwill play arole indeterminingthe detailedindicators for their specific
activities. This principle extends down to common interest groups invillages determining in
advance, what they expect from interventions under the project andreporting after the
interventionwhether or not the target was achieved. This process will use the range of
participatory monitoring systems available including some developed under NARPI1for ATIRI.

The proposed M&E system i s built on a cascading set o f goals, purposes, results and activities.
The goals o f a higher-level project activity (e.g. component vis a vis sub component) become the
purposes o f the lower level. The result i s an interlocking results framework that ensures that all
project activities can be traced interms o f how they contribute to the project development
objective. The use o f a management information system ensures that project managers know
quickly whether activities are on or off track. This i s the essence o f the internal monitoring
processes.

KAPP is making specific investments that needto demonstrate people and community level
outcomes. Agricultural productivity will be measured through externally contractedhousehold
surveys. Panel data exists for 1980, 1991 and 1997 that measured the impact o f the Bank's last
investment inagricultural extension inKenya. The project will fund similar surveys to establish
a pre-projectbaseline, and a post project assessment o f impact, inproject as well as non-project
areas.




                                                                                                    11

The KAPP Secretariat will have overall responsibility for the monitoring and evaluation system
centered on one full time professional. The project also will fund capacity buildingfor M&E.
KAPP will make use o fexisting capacitybothlocally and abroad to supplement the internal co-
ordination o f M&E. The aim i s to use data generated bythe M&E system to continuously
improve project outcomes.

Sustainability

Two major issues affect sustainability o f the project:

Future financing-for project initiated activities: A sustainable base o fpublic fundingfor
agricultural research and extension requires an effective effort at monitoring and evaluation, and
regular public education about the benefits achieved. Stakeholders will support the needed
appropriations for agricultural research and extension only when they see tangible benefits. The
NARSneeds to ensure that other financial resources are made available inaddition to funds from
the Government and donors. The project will further support initiatives aiming at enhancing the
sustainability o f research activities andthe diversification o f income generating sources. The
rationalization process within the NARS will also aim to promote economies of scale and
efficient use o f available resources. The sustainability o f extension delivery mechanisms
promoted by the project will depend on the level o f public funding, increased willingness of
clients to share costs, and investments made by the private sector. It is expected that reforms
will reduce the cost o f services and incorporatecost-sharing mechanisms. Itis anticipated that
some o fthe extension services being offered by the Government will be taken over byproducer
groups and commodity bodies as has happenedwith tea andto some extent dairy production.
The associated GEF component addresses landdegradation ina manner that preserves or
restores ecosystem integrity, functions and enhance agricultural productivity.

Institutional capacity: KAPP relies on institutional capacity to undertake reform and devolve
control over resources to lower levels. As the program expands inphases I1and111, capacity
may become a constraint. The KAPP will attempt to avoid this by operating through existing
structures andmechanisms enhancedby task groups and additional resource persons to buildthe
required capacity, facilitate the reform process and eventually mainstream the program.
Additionally, the KS would tap into emerging Regional arrangements to share experiences with
other agricultural service systems, as an integral part o f the reformprocess,

Critical risks and Dossiblecontroversial aspects

Risks                           RiskMitigationFactors                            RiskRating
                                                                                 with Mitigation
Toproject development
objective
GOK experiences difficulty       The project gives particular attentionto: (i)          S
inactingoncommitmentto          making stakeholders the drivers o f the reform
public sector reform and        processthrough the fora; (ii) hamessing and
devolution to private sector    engaging all channels for information and
and civil society               communication to make the public service
                                accountable; (iii)
                                                 informingthe reformprocess



                                                                                                 12

 Reforms are delayed due to
 lack o f capacity to meet the     and internationalsources are envisioned inthe
  strict timetables impliedby      project; (ii) will createa performance
                                                 project
 the triggers                      basedsvstem
 Triggers are met but Bank         Bank commitment to future phaseshas been                          M
 managementjudges other            strong, as indicatedby the minutes ofproject
 priorities to behigherand         meetings and other Bank documents.
 does not keep commitment
 implicit inthe choice of APL
 Exogenous weather shocks or       KAPP activities will be complemented by other                     M
 other events that sidetrack       interventions such as the Arid Lands Project in
  sustained attentionneededfor     order to ensure a strengthenedcapacity to
 reforms.                          anticipate and respondto droughts/floods and
                                   other external events. Some risks are o f anature
                                   that cannot be mitigatedwithinthe scope o fthe
                                   project.
  To component results
I Failureto  achieve inter-        The project makes provisions to create inclusive                  M
  ministerial linkage and          coordination structures at all levels.
  collaboration
  Insufficient involvement o f     The project foresees a direct involvement o f the                 M
  civil society, private sector    civil society, private sector and farmedclients in
 and clients.                      the reformprocess. Provisionsare also made to
                                   buildthe capacity at all levels.
 Public resource allocation        Project envisagesinall its phases the central role                M
 remains centralized.              o f the districts. Increased role and capacity o f
                                   decentralized levels builtinto triggers (see
                                   above).
  Inability sufficiently to        KARIwill take aleadrolewithintheNARS in                I          M
  emphasize income                 order to ensure quality and relevance of
  generation, bothat the farm      developed technology. KARIwill also
  level inadoption of              collaborate with other NARSactors inits
  technologies, and within the     commercialization activities. Extensionpilots
  research system, incapturing     will emphasizemarket opportunities, andnot
  appropriate returns to           just increasedproduction.
  intellectual property created.
  Overall RiskRating                                                                                  M
  Risk ratings:HighRisk (H)-greater  than 75 percent probability that the outcome/result will not be achieved;




  Creditconditionsandcovenants

  Conditions o fEffectiveness

      The Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalfo f the Borrower and KARI



                                                                                                               13

    The Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Association a PIP inform andsubstance
    satisfactory to the Association
    The Borrower has established and operated the Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee
    andthe Project Steering Committeeina manner satisfactory to the Association
    TheBorrower has established the Project Secretariat andrecruitedthereto staffwith
    qualification andexperience satisfactory to the Association including a coordinator, a
    research specialist, an extension specialist and a farmer and client empowerment specialist
    The Borrower has established a financial management system for the Project inform and
    substance satisfactory to the Association, including the Borrower's ability to produce FMRs
    The Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein the InitialDeposit
    referred to inSection 3.03 ofthe Development FinancingAgreement

Conditions ofDisbursement

N o withdrawals shall be made inrespect o fpayments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date
of the Development FinancingAgreement (DFA); (b) under category (5) unless the Borrower
has fumished to the Association the RGMinform and substance satisfactory to the Association
andthe Research Grant has beenmade inthe accordance with the provisions o f Schedule 4 to the
DFA andthe RGMincludingthat eachResearchGrant shallnot exceed an amount o f$20,000
equivalent for an individual scientist and an amount o f $75,000 equivalent for institutions and
universities; and (c) under category (6) unless the Borrower has furnished to the Association the
FGMinform andsubstance satisfactory to the Association andthe Farmer Granthasbeenmade
inthe accordance withprovisions of Schedule 4 to the DFAandthe FGMincludingthat each
Farmer Grant shall not exceed an amount o f $15,000 equivalent.

Legal Covenants

None.

                                  D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

Economic and financial analyses.

The analysis has beenbroken into two parts: a costhenefit analysis for the investments into
K A R I ' s research programs since their estimated outputs could be quantified, and an efficiency
andsocial analysis for the investmentso faninstitutional nature. The analysis has focused on
four representative research enterprises, namely maize, potato, mango and dairy cattle, because
of their importance innational andhousehold food security andnutrition, income generation,
export earnings and employment. The details are given inAnnex 9.

Economic. Inundertakingthe Economic Analysis, the financial data were adjusted to reflect
opportunity cost for labor, import parity prices, and the time horizon for the investment. Cost
benefit analysis assumingconservative estimates o fbenefits o f the four representative enterprises
shows that research into food crop technologies would yield an Economic Rate o fReturn (ERR)
on the order o f 38% (maize), 33% (potato) and20% (mango) over a 20 year period. The ERR
for dairy technology was estimated at 28%. The total net present value (NPV) o fthe considered



                                                                                                  14

food crops and dairy amount to US$90 million based on a 20 year cash flow and at 12%
opportunity cost o f capital. Based on these illustrative results it i s likely that the economic
benefits from the project will be sufficient to justify proceeding, even ifnot all research results
yield equally highreturns. The emphasis on enhancing disseminationwhile investing inresearch
will increase the likelihood of achieving andsurpassing estimated returns, since adoptionrates
for successful technologies may exceed those assumed inthe analysis. Although there is no
reliable andwide-spread data that can be used to quantifythe impact o f extension inthe country,
the results so far achieved throughthe extension pilots initiated underNARPI1(through ATIRI)
indicates major productivity and income benefits that can be derived from technology adoption.

Financial. Financial analysis shows the four representative KARIresearch enterprises to be
viable with attractive Financial Rates o fReturn (FRRs) andpositive Net Present Values (NPVs).
Research inmaize yielded the highest rate o freturn (48%); followed by dairy (40%); potato
(35%) andmango (30%). The NPVs at 12% ranged between US$3.2 million for dairy andUS$
327,000 for potato. These returns confirm the financial soundness o fthe program and
demonstrate that farmers will be able profitably to adopt the new technologies developed by the
research system.

Fiscal Impact. The project investment constitutes 0. 6% o f annual agricultural GDP. Kenya is
not yet investing inagricultural research and extension at a level required to attain a strong
position of competitiveness with major other players inworld agriculture, such as China, India,
andBrazil, but this is the positionto whichthe country should aspire. The reforms undertaken
through the twelve year APL should result inan overall increased level o f investment inKenya's
agricultural technology system, andinhigher returns to those investments. The KAPP i s not
expected to result insignificant additional fiscal obligations for the Government, although as
noted above, continued public support for agricultural research and extension should be expected
andreflected inthe MTEFfor the foreseeable future. Inthe short run,the project is not expected
to generate substantial public revenues but may do so inthe longrun.Despite this lag, short term
recurrent costs are sustainable and are expected to be absorbed inthe Government budget for
most o f the project components Nevertheless, KARIremains heavily dependent on donor funds
andGovernment transfers but efforts arebeingmade to increase revenue generation to reduce
this dependency.



The project is largely institutional inits objectives, but also responds to the major technical
constraints affecting agricultural productivity growth. It proposes a number o f interventions to
improve the efficiency o f the country's solid network o f research, education, financial, extension,
agro-industrial and market andcommunity-based organizations towards productivity and
incomes increase objectives. The following specific technical issues, related to the existing
outdated and ineffective legal andpolicy framework, will needpriority attention: (i)        bio-
technology, andthe use o f genetically modified organisms; (ii)      intellectual property and
patentingrights; (iii)protection o f indigenous flora and fauna species as well as indigenous
knowledge; (iv) land tenure particularly o fthe commons; (v) use o f pesticides andtheir impact
on humans and the environment; and (vi) the forecasting, prevention andmitigation o f natural




                                                                                                   15

phenomena such as floods, and drought. (iii), and (v) will be coveredby the KAPP-GEF
                                                  (iv),
component

Fiduciarv

Financial management. Project financial management risk inimplementation is assessedas
moderate, because o fthe adoption o f a KARI-based financial management, accounting and
auditing system. However, success inthis critical setup phase is subject to a well defined and
documentedProject ImplementationPlan, and an effective trainingprogram for all K S staff.
KAPP will be tasked withproducing a financial management timeline to effectiveness that
includes realistic timing for the procurement of, (i)  KAPPpersonnel, (ii)  accounting systems,
(iii) auditors,aswellasthepreparationofproceduresmanualsandstafftraining.
    external

Procurement. Inline with the proposedinstitutional arrangements for the implementation o f the
project, procurement will be carried out directly by, or under the guidance and supervision o f
KARI. Procurement decisions underthe KARIproject component willbe executed throughthe
existing institutional management structure o f KARL Procurement o f inputs to non-KARI
components will be carried out or supervised by KARIwith the KAPP Secretariat, KAPP
District Offices (DSU), with the participation o fbeneficiary communities. The proposed
minimumnumbero fpeoplethat wouldberequiredfor managingthe procurement function at the
three levels, the minimumprocurement capacity, and their duties are summarized inAnnex 8.
Recruitment andretentiono f qualifiedprocurement officers byKARIwill be crucial for the
implementation o f its component under the project as well as the envisaged institutional support
to the KAPP Secretariat.

Environment and social

KAPP has an environmental rating o f C anda social rating o f S3. KAPP aims to strengthen
Kenya's agricultural research and extension system inways that contribute to environmentally
andsocially sustainable growth andresource management. The project has beenproactive, and
following best practice, a sectoral environmental and social assessment (SESA) was carried out
to establish a framework for effective response to environmental and social sustainability
considerations ina reformed agricultural technology system. Environment issues identified
include: (a) loss o fnatural habitat; (b) use o f inappropriate farmingpractices; (c)
agriculture/wildlife conflicts; (d) agro-processing pollution; (e) misuse o fpesticides; and (f)
proneness to climatic fluctuations (especially drought).

Social issues identified under KAPP include: (a) resource poor farmers inabilityto access
extension services and inputs; (b) inappropriate technology and thus poor adoption; (c)
inadequate access and control ofproduction functions for women; (d) HIV/AIDS impact
production systems and livelihoods, and; (e) Importanceto monitor impacts on indigenous
people at the end o fphase one, and incorporate special measures Was deemed necessary.
Following on (e), it was envisaged that KAPP activities may have a longer term impacts on
indigenous peoples indirectly affectedbyproject activities (e.g. through change indiet, livestock
related activities). It was agreed that such impacts will be monitoredthrough the project, andre-
considered at the end o fphase one, and appropriate approaches designed if/as deemed



                                                                                                 16

necessary. A number of these activities are expected to be financed under an associated KAPP-
GEFproject presentlyunderpreparation.

Safemard Dolicies

No safeguard policies are triggeredbythe project.

Policy Exceptions andReadiness

Policy exceptions:
Nopolicy exceptions are sought.

Readiness:
A draft Project Implementation Plan(PIP) was prepared beforeNegotiations andwill be
finalized before effectiveness.




                                                                                             17

                 Annex 1: CountryandSector or ProgramBackground
               KENYA: KenyaAgriculturalProductivityProject(KAPP)

Context
Since independence, Kenya has experienced gradual but slow decline ineconomic
growth. Annual GDP growth averaged 6.5 percent inthe 1960s and 70s and declined to
4.3 percent in 1980s and 2.2 percent inthe 1990s. Real GDPper capita growth, already
low at 0.7 percent between 1980 and 1990, became a negative 0.5 percent between 1990
and2001. Economic performanceimprovedwhen reforms inthe mid 1990's removed
trade restrictions and eliminated most price and exchange controls. But as interest in
further reforms waned, corruption, poor governance andweather andprice related shocks
ledto a retum to low growth inthe late 90's. Inthe past three years a renewed
commitment to macroeconomic stability and improved external environment has
produced generally positive trends, inflation has declined andGDP growth increased
modestly. One consequence o fpoor GDP growth has been steadily increasing poverty,
which rose from 48 percent in 1992 to 56 percent in2000.

Sector Performance
Duringthe last two decades Kenya's agricultural sector performedpoorly as a result o f
both extemal and internal factors. Average annual agricultural GDP growth fell from 3.5
percent duringthe 1980s to 1.0 percent during the 1990s. Unfavorable external
environment affecting agricultural commodity prices and access to markets as well as
climatic shocks explain some o f the decline. However, domestic policy shortcomings
leading to distortions inboth input and output markets, erosiono f the natural resource
base, poor legal and regulatory framework, andneglect o f infrastructure, as well as
dysfunctional o fpublic support services have beenthe main reasons for poor
performance. The endresult has been increased ruralpoverty and food insecurity,
decline incompetitiveness, andvirtual cessation o f bothprivate andpublic investment in
the sector.

The poor performancewithinthe agriculture sector has affected almost all livestock and
crops. Tea, floriculture and horticulture are, however, notable exceptions as their export
volume and value has beenincreasing. Both export and domestic production are
dominated by smallholders, but at very low levels o fproductivity. An estimated 50
percent agricultural output does not reachthe market at all andis consumed for
subsistence.

Key challenges to productivity
The new Government has committed itself to restoring growth inagriculture. A key
challenge to this commitment will be the transition from subsistence to commercial
production and from low to highlevels o f productivity. Institutionalandpolicy reforms
aimed at moving subsistence farmers to market based production systems will be affected
bythe following keychallenges: (i) tenure anddegradation: a highproportion of
                                      land
Kenya's small farms are below two ha and competition for resources is increasing; (ii)
low technolow adoption: low utilization o fimproved technology and limited access to
extension or research services are linkedto a lack o fresponsiveness to farmer needs and


                                                                                          18

priorities on the part o f Government service providers; (iii) market access: poorly
                                                               poor
developed internal and external market structures limit farmer access to physical and
financial inputs such as seeds, fertilizer and credit services while underdeveloped external
markets linkages constrain output marketing; (iv) underdeveloped infrastructure; and(v)
increasingimportance o f social issues: highincidence o fHIV/AIDS, malaria and
waterbome diseases result inloss inlabor productivity and diversion o f resources for
investment andcontinuous incidence and prevalence o fpoverty among women and other
vulnerable groups which constitutes the bulk o f labor force for the sector.

Governmentresponse
The new Government's development strategy, as articulated inthe recently released
Economic Recovery Strategyfor Wealthand Employment Creation (2003-2007) (ERS),
i s to restore and sustain economic growth, generate o f 500,000 jobs per year to absorb
over 2 millionKenyans who are currently unemployed, andreducepoverty. The
productive sectors o f agriculture, trade and industryand tourism are to be the prime
movers inthe recovery program. Inorder for the macroeconomic targets to be met, the
agriculture sector is expected to grow by 3.1 percent per annum. Taking agriculture back
on a sustainable growth path is identified as a critical element towards a broad-based
growth needed for poverty reduction. This is also inline with the findings o f the
consultative PRSPprocess which identified agriculture andrural development as the
number one priority inpoverty reduction. Both strategies call for investing more
resources inrural areas especially targeted at smallholder farmers. These investments are
requiredto sustainability increase crop and livestock production and, catalyze shifts
towards higher-value farm enterprises while unlocking the potential inthe arid and semi-
aridlandswhich havebeencomparativelyunderdeveloped despite accounting for 80
percent o f the total land area.

At the sectoral level, the Governmenthas developedthe Strategyfor Revitalizing
Agriculture (SRA), which highlights the need for a multi-sectoral approach to rural
development. The theme o f improving agricultural sector productivity and
competitiveness through enhanced adoption o f appropriate technologies andpractices is
echoed inthe strategy. The vision o f the Government as contained inthe SRA is "to
transform Kenya 's agriculture into aprofitable, commercially oriented and
internationally and regionally competitive, productive economic activity thatprovides
high quality gainful employment to Kenyans". This has to be achievedwithin a
framework o f improved agricultural productivity and farm incomes while conserving the
landresource base andenvironment. The SRA aims to achieve this visionby providing
a policy andinstitutional environment that is conducive to increasing agricultural
productivity, promoting investments, encouragingprivate sector involvement in
agricultural enterprises and agribusiness. Key to this environment is creation o f the legal
andregulatory frameworks fair andjust to all farmers, producers, processors, and
marketers o f agri-products; availability o f efficient agricultural advisory and extension
services that are pluralistic, responsive to farmers' needs and dynamic enough to cope
with changing environment; availability o f efficient agricultural research system that is
providing appropriate technologies, knowledge and information to sustain improved
agricultural productivity, competitive, and cost efficient agricultural production system;



                                                                                           19

anda working and apluralistic agricultural inputssystem that is amenable to farmers and
producers and agro-processors.

Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Enhancing agricultural productivity will require development and application o fmodem
crop and livestock technologies inorder to increase the value added per unit o f landand
labor. This will require revitalization o fboth agricultural extension and agricultural
research services. Makingboth agricultural extension and research demand-driven,
pluralistic andinclusive will be cardinal pillars inthe modemization o f agriculture.
Farmers and other key intermediaries also need to be empowered for them to set the pace
indemanding andapplyingthesemoderntechnologies. Increasesinproductivity canonly
be sustainable ifsafeguards are taken to maintain or enhance the naturalresource base.
There are already indications that land degradation is becoming a major problem insome
highpotentialareas as well as inthe fragile arid andsemi-arid lands.Water shortages and
pollution have become a nationalproblem affecting large segments o fthe country and
population. The developmental challenge on how to increase agriculturalproductivity
without compromising the long-term productive capacity o fthe soil andwater resource
base. This challenge can only be met through a cost effective system that generates and
disseminates technologies andpractices that meet the needs o f farmers backedby a
sustainable institutional mechanism.

The project will address the institutional, technical and policy issues identified above by:

Facilitatingfarmer empowerment. Kenya has many organizationsrepresenting farmers
at various levels. None o f these has a comprehensive coverage and capacity to reachthe
large majority o fthe small scale farmers. At national level, the Kenya National
Federationo f Agricultural Producers (KENFAP) which is the largest apex farmer
organization represents less than 10percent o f the total farmingpopulation. Over the
years the Government has encouraged and promoted the formation o fproducer
organizations such as cooperatives and farmer groups. These organizations have
primarilybeencharged with processing, marketing andprovision o fservices as input
delivery and credit to their members. CBOs andNGOs have also actively taken up the
role o f mobilizing farmers into groups and occasionally into producer associations. In
recognition o f this fact KENFAPhas initiated strategic plans and a policy orientation that
will encourage it to buildup membership among small scale farmers from district level.
KENFAPis also mindfulo fprovidingproduction, storage, processingandmarketing
services to small scale farmers through rural collection centers inthe near future.
KENFAP acknowledges that it is requiredto provide tangible services to rural farmers if
it is to beginto have any major increase inthe recruitment of small holder farmers. It is
therefore engaged ina series o fmeasures aimed at deepening its roots inthe rural areas.

Laying thegroundwork for apluralistic extension and learning system. The
Government remains the largest provider o f extension services with a staff o f 9,000 using
a top-down extension model designed to deliver extension services with presence in
every province, district, division, location and village. However, Government has not
been able to use this asset efficiently inproviding adequate andquality services to



                                                                                          20

farmers. As a result largenumber o f Civil Society, NGOs, CBOs and religious groups
have come into fillthe gap, providing extension services at the farmer level. There is no
framework to guide and coordinate these interventions. Many o fthese alternative
providers employ civil servants without any guidelines.

There i s also highdemand for education as well as an extended infrastructure for farmer
and extension staff training, mostly located inhighpotential areas. However, these are
not utilized at their optimal capacity, because o f lack o fresources and tailored services.
The residentialmode o f training is not suitable for fanners andparticularly for women.
Government is moving away from certificate level training focusing on diploma and
graduates. However, there are a large number o f graduates unable to secure ajob. There
is also a needto move training from a current productionorientation to align it with
fanners' need for information on marketing and value-addition. There i s therefore a great
role for higher education institutions intraining graduates for future responsive and
demand-driven extension services, above andbeyond the public service. The capacity o f
CBOs, NGOs andother service providers remains wanting andrequire major
improvement.

Integrating and rationalizing the national agricultural research system. Kenya's
agricultural research involves a wide number o f institutions, different innature, mandate
andsize. The degree o fcollaborationbetweenthese institutions is limited inscope andad
hoc innature. There is a clear disconnect between the level o f the investment made to
buildup andoperate the above listed institutions andtheir actual impact on improving the
performance o fthe sector. The efficiency and impact o f the current institutional set up i s
constrained by its fragmentation, a supply driven culture andweak links to extension and
end users.

GoK's call for the rationalization and greater integration o fthe various institutions
involved inagricultural research and extensionwas echoed and shared by all
stakeholders. KAPP is viewed as an ideal platform to address ina holistic and systematic
way all the structural issues that are constraining the system to operate efficiently. KAPP
has an opportunity to build synergy by linking civil society initiatives with KENFAP's
efforts. There i s therefore a need for a shared vision andnew agricultural policy for both
research andextension to be formulated through a consultative process engaging the
stakeholders o fthe entire research-extension and education continuum needs. The .
policies wouldbe implementedthrough a new institutional and organizational framework
which will, proposejoint planning, implementation andmonitoring instruments, develop
a code o f conduct, funding instruments andincentive structures that would promote
effective collaboration between all players. The consolidation o f the gains achievedby
KARIduringthe first andsecondNARPwould enable the leadnationalagricultural
research institution to play a catalytic and drivingrole inthis challenge and would as well
maximize the potential o fthe existing assets and investment.




                                                                                            21

            Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
                     KENYA: KenyaAgriculturalProductivityProject(KAPP)

Sector Issue            Project                                                  datestSupervision
                                                                                 {PSR) Ratings
Bank-financed                                                                          IP           DO

Drought Management and  Arid Lands Resource Management Project (second
ClDD                    phase ongoing)                                                  S            S


4gricultural Research   Second NationalAgricultural                                     S            S
                        ResearchProject (closed )

Environment             Lake Victoria    Environmental Management Project               S            S
                        (ongoing)

                        Western Kenya Integrated Ecosystem Management
                        Project (under preparation )

Water management        Watershed resources Development and management
                        (planned)

Civil Society           Westem Kenya CDD (planned)
EmDowerment,            Local Government Reform(planned)
Decentralization

Other Development
Agencies

SIDA                        e     National      Agriculture    and    Livestock
                                 Extension Project (NALEP)


EU                          e    Agricultural   Research      Support    Project
                                 (ongoing and planned)


IFAD                        e     Horticulture and traditional Crops project
                            e    Central KenyaDry Area Smallholder
                            0    S. Nyanza CDD (planned)

F A 0                       e     Special Program for Food Security (SPFS)
                            e    Environnent      &       Natural      Resource
                                 Management

USAID                       e    Kenya Dairy Project
                            e    KenyaMaize Development Project
                            e    HorticulturalCrops Development Project
                            e    Kenya agriculture biotechnology support
                                 program
                            0    NorthEastern Pastoral Development Program

                            0    Smallholder Dairy Development Project
DFID                        e    Agriculture Policy ReformProject (planed)

                            e    Promotion o f Private Sector development in
GTZ                              Agriculture


                                                                                                   22

DANIDA    Agricultural Sector Support Project (ongoing
          andplanned)
JICA
          Smallholder     Horticulture   Empowerment
          Project (planned)
          Smallholder IrrigationProject (planned)
          Baringo IntegratedRDProject (planned)
AfDB
          Support to livestock development




                                                          23

                       Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
               KENYA: KenyaAgriculturalProductivityProject(KAPP)

Planning,MonitoringandEvaluationFrameworkFor KAPP

Increasing agricultural productivity inKenya will involve a wide array o fplayers, both
individuals and institutions, rangingfrom the Economic sub-committee o f Cabinet
chaired by the Vice President all the way to an individual small-scale farmer
implementing an activity inhis field. Inbetweenthese two extremes are an inter-
ministerial steering committee o f 6 PermanentSecretaries, a Technical Boardcomposed
o f Directors o f the implementing agencies from within and outside o f Government, line
ministries and their constituent departments, research institutions, universities. NGOs and
CBOs at the national level and on down to districts, divisions and locations will also play
a role. The planning, monitoring and evaluation framework needs to meet the needs o f
this diverse group.

The framework to be adopted byKAPPwill reflect the followingprinciples:

    Planningmonitoring and evaluation (PM & E) is an integralpart o f good project
    management
    The PM&E processes at different levels needto be linked through a hierarchy o f
    objectives where achievements at one level contribute to the objectives o f the next
    higherlevel
    PM&E at all levels will be a mix o fparticipatory processes that directly involve the
    implementers and clients, andindependent periodic external reviews and assessments
    An effective PM&E will requirebaseline data and information for bothM&E
    activities as well impact assessment

The details o f the PM&E system will be finalized inthe Project ImplementationPlan.
That plan will be an integral part o f the KAPP operational manual, by elaborating on the
key performance indicators andhow they are to be measured. The planwill also detail
how the data will be generated, the type andprofile of those to be charged with
generating that information at the different levels, how often different activities will need
to be undertaken, and indicative costs for the activities.

Certain activities are already planned. These include a baseline survey o f rural
households to determine the impact and effectiveness o fthe technology generation and
dissemination system. Panel data already exists for 1980, 1991, and 1997 that were used
to evaluate the Bank's last investment inagricultural extension inKenya, the Training
and Visit system. The last o fthese surveys was undertakenby OED incollaboration with
Tegemeo Policy Research Institute that has already indicatedwillingness to update the
data with a repeat survey that would form a baseline for KAPP. Re-implementing the
survey at periodic intervals during the life o fKAPPwill provide a very comprehensive
set o f data for evaluation and impact assessment. Baseline data will also be obtained
from the plannednational welfare monitoring survey o f 2005.




                                                                                           24

Intemal management reviews with regular reporting to the next level inthe hierarchy will
be another element o f the monitoring and evaluation framework for KAPP. Divisions
will report to districts, districts to the KS,onup to the reports to the inter-ministerial
steering and cabinet sub-committees. Details o fhow this information will be formatted
into management plans at each level will be part of the PM&E implementationplan.

Two distinct but complementary exercises undertaken recently will assist the design o f
the monitoring and evaluation framework for KAPP. Under NARP 11, KARIhas recently
developed a framework for developingbaselines andbenchmarks for activities under the
ATIRI initiative. That framework integrates research and extension interventionswith a
focus on farmer participatory assessments o f levels o f awareness about technology,
behavioral change as a result o f interventions, and outcome indicators resulting from
adopting the demonstrated technologies. At project management level, ASARECA has
recently been involved indeveloping a results monitoring framework that guides
managers as to how to link project goals to strategic objectives, intermediateresults,
outputs and activities. The integration o fthese different threads into a coherent Planning
andmonitoring andevaluationframework for KAPPwill be completed as part o fthe PIP.
The PM&E implementation plan will also give guidelines on how to undertake an
independent technical based impact evaluation o fKAPP. It i s preferred that such an
assessment be out-sourced from an independent organization, not involved inKAPP.

Attached below are the Results framework and arrangements for results monitoring for
phase one o f the project.




                                                                                           25

                                       ResultsFrameworkfor Phase I

PDO                                     OutcomeIndicators                        Use of OutcomeInformation
Improvedperformance o f the             Increased uptake o f technologies and    To contribute knowledge and
agricultural technology supply and      practices                                .essonsleamed to ongoing reform
demand systemthrough: (i)     reforms                                            igenda. Outcome information will
inextensionto increase pluralism,       Integrated research and extension        ielp shape the future phases ofthe
responsiveness to clients, and          policy and institutional framework       4PL.
participationby privateproviders;       inplaceby2007
(ii)evolutionarychangeinthe
     an
existing systemo f agricultural         Pilot activities in 20 districts testing
researchto improve accountability       pluralistic extension approaches and
and impact; and (iii)  increased        supporting     client   empowerment
empowerment o f producer                activities
organizations to influence the
planning, design, implementation,
funding and monitoringand
evaluation of research, extension,
training and capacity building
activities.

                                        ResultsIndicators                        Use of ResultsMonitoring
~~~
IntermediateResults
Component One: Facilitation of          ComponentOne:                            Component One:
Sector InstitutionalReform                                                       To determine the effectiveness o f
                                        Coordinating structures at national      coordination and consultative
Improved coordination and               and district level established and       process at national and local levels.
 enhanced linkages between              operational                              Inadequate progress will indicate
 stakeholders inthe agriculture                                                  low levels o f integration and
 sector.                                Monitoring and evaluation system         participation among stakeholders.
                                        that feeds into planning and
                                        implementation processes

 ComponentTwo: Supportto                ComponentTwo :                           ComponentTwo:
 ExtensionSystemReform

 Adoption of a pluralistic, efficient,  Increased uptake o f technologies and    To determine the viability o fpilot
  farmer-led extension system.          productivity inthe pilot areas           extensionreformactivities and test
                                                                                 whether incentives for private
                                        National ExtensionPolicy reviewed,       extensionproviders are adequate.
                                        revisedandenacted
                                                                                 To help shape the broader extension
                                         6 extensionapproaches tested and        reform agenda inphase two o f the
                                        provencost effective                     project.

                                        # and types o f service delivery
                                        agents operating inpilot districts

  Component Three: Support to           ComponentThree:                          ComponentThree:
  ResearchSystemReform
                                        NARS rationalization action plan         To    determine      effectiveness   o f
  Establishment o f an institutional    adopted inyear 2 and initiatedby         research    in reaching        broader
  framework for NARS coordination       year 3                                   audience and degree o f integration
  and financing                                                                  with other institutions
                                        Collaborative activities occupy 50%
  Cost effective and highquality        o foroiect financine: to nonKARI         To identifv effective modes o f end



                                                                                                                 26

       researchprograms located     research institutes by year 2          user participation, collaboration in
                   framework and                                           research, and integration o f service
            stakeholder defined     MISandM& Eestablished,                 provision at the local level to help
              outputs disseminated  integrated and functional by year 1    shape the Phase I1program.
                                    andresults utilized inmanagement
                                                                           To determine the effectiveness of
                                    Inventory o f technologies and         management reforms for NARSin
                                    institutional capabilities carried out realizing improvements inresearch
                                    and databasedeveloped by end o f       performancelefficiency.
                                    year land updated regularly

                                    Two thirds KARIresearchprograms
                                    rated satisfactory by internal and
                                    external reviewersby year 2.

                                    Progressive devolution o f resource
                                    allocation and accountability for
                                    adaptive researchprograms to
                                    centers (CRACs)

                                    Devolutiono f ATIRI proposal
                                    review and implementation (M& E)
                                    modalities to centers and grass-root
                                    fora by end o f year 1

 Component Four: Supportto          Component Four:                        ComponentFour:
 FarmerKlientEmpowerment
                                    Growth and increasing specialization To determine how much access and
 Increasedability o f farmers       o f farmer organizations               influence farmers have inshaping
 organizations to effectively       participating inclient fora            agricultural services.
 mobilize, scale up agricultural
 technology, and influence research # o f client fora created and          To assessperformance of different
 and extension service delivery.    functioning at district and divisional approaches (processes and
                                    level                                  organizational models) for
                                                                           increasing effective farmerlclient
                                    # o f advocacy policy and service      demand for and influence on
I                                   delivery initiatives generated by      agricultural services
                                    client fora
                                                                           To help identify future initiatives for
                                    # o fproducer organization investing producer organizations and
                                    intechnology multiplication             commercial production inthe next
                                                                           phases o f the APL




                                                                                                           27

U
5

                       9    9




     4-
    .e
     0

   3 Ill

     Fi
0  d



                              -0
                              8  x



0




           I    c-4
                             n
                             x

      rc
       0




               0
               M




         3
     d    d




          3
     N    m




          0
      N   N




I

                             Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                  KENYA: KenyaAgriculturalProductivityProject(KAPP)

Projectcomponents

The project will have four components: 1)Facilitation o f Sector Institutional Reforms; 2)
Support to Extension System Reforms; 3) Support to Research System Reforms and 4) Support
to FarmerKlient Empowerment. The overall project takes a three pronged approach to reform:
policy dialogue and stakeholder consultation, capacitybuilding, and piloting.


Component 1: Facilitationof PolicyandInstitutionalReforms(US$7.90 million,including
6.93 millionIDA credit and 0.97 Governmentcontribution)

A key element o fKenya's agricultural strategy willbe to transform previously disparate and
disjointed development efforts into a coordinated system that results inimproved outcomes and
more efficient resource allocation. Institutional capacity will be built under KAPP to strengthen
existing Government structures andwill have a dual function: to facilitate implementation o f
specific KAPP activities at national and district levels, and to act as a forum for advancing
further policy dialogue.

The coordinating structures created inthe Govemment's Strategy for Revitalizing Agriculture
(SRA) encompass Government, private sector agribusiness service providers, marketingand
inputsupply firms, civil society and farmers' organizations, commodity groups andnon-
governmental organizations. Activities inthe first component will therefore establish
mechanisms for better Government coordination o f existinginstitutions and also new
consultative structures that will create more integrated systems o fresearch, extension and farmer
empowerment.

Subcomponent I.I:KAPP CoordinatingBodies

The project will support a number o f coordinating bodies, some already inexistence and others
created for the purpose o f KAPP implementation (see organogram below). At the ministerial
level the project will support the SRA-proposedInter-ministerial Coordinating Committee
(SRA-ICC) composed o f Permanent Secretaries o f all 7 sector ministries -Agriculture,
Livestock and Fisheries Development, Cooperatives, Water, Environment andNatural
Resources, Local Government, and Lands. The SRA-ICC will guide overall implementation o f
KAPP and its monthly meetings will be financed bythe KAPPproject. The SRA-ICC will
improve Government co-ordination o f activities inthe sector and allow quick resolution o f issues
that cut across ministries and departments. The SRA-ICC reports to the Economic Sub-
committee and also has oversight o f the KAPP steering committee, whose members it shall
appoint. The SRA-ICC's links with the Economic Sub committee will give the KAPP project
organs access to decision makers at a highlevel and added clout to carry difficult decisions that
may be required for reform. As the apex body for KAPP, the SRA-ICC agenda would be
determinedby members and the output o f stakeholder consultations sponsored by KAPP. The
KAPP steering committee shall report to the SRA-ICC and will be responsible for the oversight


                                                                                                31

of KAPP secretariat's management o f operations and apportioning o fbudget allocations among
the key program components o fKAPP, research, extension and farmer empowerment. The
KAPPsteering committee will ensure the KAPP secretariat reports annualprogress andperiodic
reviews o f all programs andmaintains fiduciary accountability for all KAPP finances and assets.

The membership for the KAPP steering committee will be drawn from the six line Ministries
represented inthe ICC (Agriculture, Livestock andFisheries Development, Cooperatives, Water,
Environment andNatural Resources and Land) andwill include Director o f KARIand
representatives o f the Universities and other stakeholders. The KAPP steering committee with
approval of the SRA-ICC may commission and dissolve ad hoc task forces that are necessary to
assist KAPP to achieve its objectives. The members o f task forces shall be drawn from the chief
executives and directors o f all the concerned ministries andother agencies. Specialists may also
be co-opted from the various fora that will be established bythe KAPP secretariat. The SRA-ICC
shall directly establish a permanent KAPP Secretariat (KS) and appoint a national coordinator
througha competitive andtransparent recruitment process that is also fully complaint with the
terms o f reference stipulated inthe project implementationplan.Members o f the steering
committee shall form an appointments selection committee to recruit the key professional staff
(specialists) from the open market on renewable contract basis. The K S will be staffed by a
Coordinator assisted by Extension, Research, FarmedClient Empowerment, M&E, Finance and
Procurement specialists. The project will provide the KS transport, office equipment,
connectivity, capacity buildingand support staff. The functions o f the K S include responsibility
for project Monitoring and Evaluation andInformation and Communication. The M&E system
will entail databasedesign (general andtheme related), baseline surveys, system establishment,
periodical reviews, participatory tools and training, evaluation and impact assessment exercises.
The KS will have a project management fundto runactivities both at national and at district
level. The agricultural services reforms for extension, research and farmer empowerment that
are supported by the KAPP secretariat will draw on subject related experimental activities
implemented in20 pilot districts.

At district level, the KAPP Secretariat will be linked to District Service Units(DSU) acting as
local secretariats. The D S Uwill be formed by a district coordinator that will liaise with a co-
opted group o f district administrationofficials3.The DSUwill interact with farmer andclient
consultative organs to facilitate the activities they demand. Whilst keepingthe district informed
o fthe project's progress through a consultative process, the D S Uwill be directly accountable to
the KAPP secretariat for operational and accounting purposes. The D S Uwill coordinate and
facilitate the creation o f institutional structures through which farmers will articulate demand and
receive services. The D S Uwill buildcapacity of service providers to meet approved standards
andto conform with the principles outlined inthe reformed policies. The D S U coordinator will
coordinate the conduct o f experimental approaches to improve extension andresearch delivery to
farmer's groups.

Subcomponent 1.2: Support to the National Reform Process



 The DSU would liaise with the institutional set-up at District level following a mode applied by the Arid Lands
Resource Management Project where the project units interact with the District Steering Groups that are a
streamlined decision making units emanating from the District Developing Committees.


                                                                                                                32

Three consultative mechanisms will be established and funded bythe project at national level
consultations as part o f a broader stakeholder consultations and consensus buildingto help
define and support KAPP's reform agenda. These will include two ad hoc Task Forces for
extension(ETF) and research (RTF) respectively and a National Farmers Forum (NFF) for the
farmer empowerment. The consultative process will embrace opinions from officials in
Government, relevant parastatals ,NGOs, private sector and civil society. They will ensure that
leadership emerging from KAPP institutional organs (for instance inthe umbrellaNational
Forum) are fully involved inthe consultationprocess. The ETF andRTFwill have organic links
to SRA- National Farmers' Forum, KAPP Steering Committees andKAPP Secretariat. Strong
KAPP representation inthe SRA-NF would not only ensure that KAPPoperates within a
common and coherent overall conceptual framework, but would also facilitate the endorsement
andenactment o fnew extension andresearchpolicies once agreed upon. The Task forces shall
be established by the KAPP steering committee with approval o fthe SRA-NF andupon request
o f the KS.The K S will help to define the terms o f reference and exact composition o fTask
forces. The consultations by Task forces would be relatively open allowing for free and open
dialogue o f ideas as for how to improve research, agricultural extension and the empowerment o f
clients. Ideas generated at these fora will betargets for fundingby the KAPP initially on
experimental and pilot basis as a precursor to adopting best practices widely across the country.
The consultations bythe Task Forces will help to buildconsensus as to the best ways o f
delivering agricultural research, extension and to pursuingfarmerklient empowennent.
Ultimately, the consultations would he the places where the policy and institutional reforms and
relatedimplementation and organizational frameworks o f the Kenyan agricultural services will
be shaped.

Itis envisaged that the needfor the Task Forceswill diminish once the new policies and
institutional frameworks are developed and enacted. However, they could continue to serve act
as K S think-tank to understand and guide the evolutionary nature o f the reform process.

Inlightofthe time requiredfor effective farmer empowerment to grow, theNationalFarmers
Forumwill continue to exist to the end o f phase 1and focus on its advocacy function.
A single consultative forum will be formed at the district anddivisional levels where the bulko f
actual interventions will take place. These district farmers fora will enhance dialogue, allow the
development o f shared visions, share leaming and thrash out implementation issues. These fora
are expected to constituted through a bottom-up representative aggregationprocess generated by
lower levels (see component 4). Extraordinary meetings o f the District fora that include other
clients such as NGO's, local agribusiness representatives and rural market intermediariesmaybe
convened to assist coordinate planning and marketingneeds o f farmers and clients. At least two
such meetings are envisaged and are expected to coincide with planningandmarketing periods,


Component2: Supportto ExtensionSystemReform(US$3.46 million, including3.42
millionIDA grant and0.04 millionGovernmentcontribution)

KAPP aims to facilitate a consultativeprocess that will buildconsensus among stakeholders for a
new extension concept andpolicy. The component will buildon achievements made under the
NAEPframework by facilitating the development and internalization o f a shared vision, strategy



                                                                                                 33

andpolicy that will helpestablish anew system o fnational agricultural extension. Extension
related activities supported under the project will lead to the formulation, and adoption o f a new
extensionpolicy and its implementation framework by 2007. The activities under this
component would: (a) clarify andrationalize the roles and hnctions o fpublic, private and civil
society organizations; (b) streamline anddevelop more effective andresponsive public services;
(c) enhance capacity among non-public extension service providers, and; (d) increase
performance and sustainability of the system. The above outputs would be achievedthrough two
subcomponents that include institution building, leaming altemative extension approaches and
capacity buildingo f service providers to carry out altemative extension approaches. Universities
andother institutions ofextension education will play akeyrole inaddressing the new types of
educational needs o f the agricultural sector

Sub-component 2.1: Facilitation of Consultationsfor Extension Reform.

The KAPP steering committee shall commissiona Task Force o f experienced extension experts
andstakeholders to consult with abroadrange o f stake holders from public institutions including
related line ministries, universities andother educationproviders. It will also include
agribusiness industry, farmers andofficials o f agencies that specialize inextension services. Its
actual composition will be defined ina national workshop that will be convened by the KS.
Thereafter the Extension Task Force (ETF) would manage itself with input form the K S
extension specialist. The Extension Task force will meet on regular basis with support o f KS. A
total o f 11national level meetings are assumed over the course o fthe consultative process.
Meetings o f the Extension Task force will held bi-monthly inthe first year and quarterly
thereafter. The KS will seek to ensure representation o f the Extension Task Force leadership in
the National Forum to ensure representation o f extension issues at the highest level and also
permit cross-fertilization o f ideas that will be relevant to the policy reform process.

The KAPP secretariat will comprise o f four specialists o f whom one will be an Extension
Specialist. Additional expertise may be sought from co-opted members o f the extension task
force either individually or as members o f task forces that are commissioned to assist the KAPP
secretariat to carryout specific extension related activities. The Extension specialist will play a
leadrole to ensure the KAPP coordinator provides all necessary means o f mobility, connectivity
andoffice equipment to support all extension related activities. The KAPP secretariat will
support the Extension Task Force for the first 18 months anduntilit is subsumed or transformed
into another organization  .The   KSwill liaise withthe DSU's to monitor andevaluate extension
services delivered to farmers' fora. Quality assurance will be evaluated interms o f performance,
work audits and financial accountability. Service providers will be evaluated andrated based on
their performance. The ETFwill assist the K S to compile andmaintain a register o f approved
service providers. The ETFwill annually vet the approved list o f servicedproviders, this process
will help check the integrity o fthe selectionprocess for extension service provision byDistrict
service Units.

Inventory and databaseof extension organizations. At the outset of the project, the K S will
undertake a comprehensive inventory and institutional assessment o f all agricultural extension
organizations and o fthe educational service providers operating inKenya. This activity, which
will buildon existing analytical work, inparticular, the work done bythe NALEP.The inventory



                                                                                                   34

will serve as an analytical instrument for the ETF.The inventory and assessmento fextension
organizations will provide a detailed institutionalprofiles o f existing extension service providers
including their missions, mandates and geographical coverage, curricula, governance structures,
programplanning, budgeting, implementationand M&E/IAprocesses, physical andhuman
assets, and financial resources. The specific output would be a state o f the art report on the
current extension and education set up andthe establishment o f a live-database that i s supposed
to evolve andbecome an on-line operational tool at the disposal o fthe DSUs. that would advise
on up-to-date information. Database maintenance would be the responsibility o f the M&Eofficer
o fthe secretariat. The ETFwill use the output o fthe inventory together with other expert sources
o f knowledge to set standards o f delivery that are achievable given the nascent state o f
development o fprivate sector service providers. Inventory and database would become available
inthe fifthmonthofthe project.

Study Toursfor Forum Members. Study tours for ETFmembers will be organized to permit the
reform process to benefit from cross fertilization o f ideas. Emphasiswill be given to gaining
experiences o fbest practices inAfrica and elsewhere. Four study tours will be organizedto
countries (two inAfrica, one inLatinAmerica and one inAsia) that have had similar
development conditions and have tried similar approaches for reforms. The composition o f study
tour groups for intercontinental visits should permit opportunity for thorough studies by
observation and interaction. The first study tour visits will focus on the extension approaches and
involve policy makers, whilst the latter visits should include more district level staff andfarmers
andbemore focused on the learningapproaches o fpilots inother African countries. Scheduling,
o f travel destinations andparticipation would be decided duringinitial ETFmeetings in
consultation with the K S

Formulation of the NAEP

The KAPP secretariat will assist the ETFto review the existing national extension policy and
formulate a new extensionpolicy. The NAEPpolicy and framework document will form the
startingpoint for the consultations. The ETFwill develop the corresponding institutional and
implementation framework for the new policy and support its enactment inparliament, The
consultativeprocess leading to the formulation o f a revised extension policy will draw on a
diagnosis o fthe inventory and assessment o f extension service providers, the information
gathered duringthe study tours and above all, the lessons from the piloting activities (see sub-
component 2.2). The expected output i s a broader and reoriented policy document whose vision
is more consistent with a demand driven, pluralistic, market oriented extension service for all
Kenyan farmers. The secretariat will avail the ETFthe necessary legal advice. The policy
document will be forwarded to the National Farmers Forum for endorsement before it i s sent to
parliamentfor discussion and legitimization. The new policy will be formulated over the first
year o fthe project and should be enacted by 2006.

The implementation framework for the policy would need to include amongst others the
following aspects:


Regulatory andJinancial



                                                                                                   35

0   Quality control and assurance o f service delivery
0   Provider skills register
    Service economy and cost recovery systems
    Standards and approach
    Public andprivate roles and hnctions
0   Fundingsystems
0   M&E and accountability

Technical
0   Development planning
    Information access and delivery
    Education andcapacity building
0   Productivity andcompetitiveness
0   Post-harvest and agro-processing
0   Agri-business andmarketing
0   Phyto-sanitary, animal health
0   Bio-safety

Sub-component 2.2: Learningpilots and CapacityBuilding

The DSUs will support innovative extension approaches and targeted interventions though grants
to farmers for extension service provision, inorder to provide lessons that will aid the
formulation o f a national extension policy and corresponding implementation framework for
extension services.

Pilot extension approaches will be conducted intwenty (20) districts to determine the most
appropriate, effective and efficient delivery systems andmethodologies for extension services,
withthe objective o fincreasingproductivity o f small scale farmers. Up to ten extension
approaches may be tested with a maximumof two approaches inany one district. Within each
district, extension approaches will be tested inselected pilot areas so that each approach covers
at least two divisions; and serves a minimum300 farmers. It is expected that each approach will
cover at least 30 villages with no fewer that 10 farmers per village for a period o f two andhalf
years consecutively (30 months). The types of learning approaches to be tested will be derived
from current delivery systems andmethodologies tested inKenya and also elsewhere as may be
revealedby study tours.

The enterprises that will form a core part o f the extension testing approaches will be determined
through a planningprocess coordinatedby the DSUinliaison with the public sector district
planningprocess for agriculture, livestock, forestry, environment, andwater. The planning
process will involve all stakeholders andbegin with individual farmers and farmers incommon
interest groups as represented through their farmers' fora at Village, Divisional and District
level. The planningprocess will culminate ina District Client Forummeeting where farmers
will invite representatives o fresearch workers, private sector, extension service providers and
development agencies inthe district. The D S Uwill support this integratedplanningprocess at all
levels and outputs will be community integratedplans (CIPs) at sub location level, consolidated




                                                                                                 36

into divisional integrated plans at divisional level andDistrict integratedplans (DIPs) that are
approvedby the District farmers forum.

District Plans.
The D S Uwill contract/delegate the planningprocess to specialized service providers that are
proficient inworking with farmers through a participatory approach. The District plans will be
based on participatory assessments o f community needs and resources. The DIPs will provide
the multi-sectoral strategic development options for the district andwill comprise farmers'
demands on preferred type o f extension approaches to be tested. The plans will focus on
prioritized enterprises andthe D S Uwill need to engage technical service providers to provide
translation o f the stated priorities into enterprise activities taking into account
productiodproductivity constraints to be overcome through research and technology innovations.

The type o f technology innovations to be tested through the extension approaches would be
clearly indicated by extension service providers inconsultation with researchers and
subsequently validated through a CRAC-like system4with KARIscientists. The DIPs o f each
district are expected to cover an average o f four divisions per district, with several CIPs per
division. This would result ina total o f 80 divisional plans and 20 DIPs. The plans approved at
district level andendorsed at national levelbythe National Farmers Forumwould become the
reference plans for implementation. The project will support through grants to farmers for
extension service provision, as many CIPs per division as deemed possible for any one extension
approach. The decision on numbers o f CIPs to support will be taken inconsultationwith the
extension service provider andthe local communities involved inthe pilot areas.

Capacity Building
A demand drivenagricultural service system needs to be drivenby information about the
demands o fpotential clients. Present extensionplayers need refresher courses to familiarize
themselves with new approaches and attitudes relevant for a more pluralistic system. Public
sector operators need reorientation towards a change to planning, coordination, management and
monitoring roles. Private sector service providers need to enhance capacity indelivering relevant
market information to the clients. Business management training will support extension officers
that opt to become private service providers. The KAPP secretariat and the D S U inconsultation
with the farmers' fora andbased onneeds emerging from the CIPs andDIPs, will strengthen
district level capacity byproviding training support o f different kindto public staff, NGOs and
CBOs and to the private sector service providers. The training programming will include a
national level workshop promotedjointly by the K S andETFthat would identify overall system
needs, target groups, education and skill gaps, resource institutions andpersons, training
modalities andbroad curricula areas. Training needs assessment will be conducted ineach
district to define specific plans and curricula. Service providers that qualify for delivering KAPP
activities will undergo specific training on extension approaches and a general orientation
training. It i s assumed that some 50 public sector, 50 NGO, 100CBO and 30 to 50 private sector
staff per district would require anddemand such training.




 Center ResearchAppraisal Committee.


                                                                                                 37

Component3: Supportto ResearchSystemReform(US$53.71 million,including20.08
millionIDA Credit, 4.28 millionIDA Grant, and29.35 million Governmentcontribution)

The objective under KAPP's research component will be to reformthe agricultural research
sector so that it encompasses a plurality o f actors andbecomes more efficient and accountable.
The key challenge i s to make the national investment inresearch commensurate to real sectoral
productivity increases. To this end the project will focus on the identification and application o f
agreed rules andmechanisms for a responsive, demand driven and market oriented technology
generation system that makes the best and most sustainable use o f the available resources. The
aim is also to develop and enact a policy instrument andrequired framework for the institutional
and operational functioning o f the entire National AgriculturalResearch System (NARS). The
system would be coherent and interfacedwith the extension and education system. Research end-
users, primarilyagricultural producers, would be the maintarget group o fthis component. The
reform will concern scientists, managers and administrative staff o f the NARS inKenya and
farmers. A muchmore efficient, value adding and accountable agricultural research system will
result eventually to the benefit o f the entire Kenyanpopulation.

Reforms would: (i)     increase the role o f end-users inplanningo f activities, resource allocation,
andmonitoring ofimplementation; (ii) performancehesultsbased resource allocation;
                                                promote
(iii) greatercollaborationandsynergybetweenandamongpublicandprivateresearch
     induce
institutions; (iv) ensure effective integrationo fresearch, education and extension services at
local levels; and (v) increase the volume o f appropriate technologies andknowledge generated
andapplied. This would be achieved through establishment o fa national agricultural research
system, pilot collaborative research activities, and further support to KARI.

Sub-component 3.1: Facilitation of a consultativeprocessfor the establishment of a NARS

The country is endowedwith a considerable number o f agencies (about 28) engaged in
agricultural research. There has however beenan insufficient investment towards the creation o f
anintegrated andholistic national agriculturalresearch andtechnology generationsystem. The
Research Task Force established by the KAPP secretariat would aim at buildinga consensus on
the vision o f the NARS outlook and the various mechanisms and organs needed to foster synergy
andintegrationbetweenthe various actors o fthe technology supply system.

Operation of consultative organs. The Research Task Force (RTF) would be composed of
representatives o fthe main actors inresearch as well as research clients5. Members o f
international organizations involved inresearch activities could be included inthe RTF.The
forum would be part o f and interact with a broader constituency dealing with the entire research-
extension and education continuum. The RTFwould convene with a variable frequency



 A provisional and non-exhaustive list o f institutions to be representedinthe RTFincludes: KART,KEFRI, KIOF,
KIRDI,KenyaMarineandFisheries ResearchInstitute, Tea ResearchFoundation, Coffee ResearchFoundation,
Sugar Research Foundation, National Council for Science and Technology, Ministries (Agriculture, Livestock and
Fisheries, Water, Land, Natural Resources and Environment), Universities (Nairobi, Egerton, Kenyatta, Bakura,
Maseno, Moi, Methodist), Tegemeo Institute, NEMA,Kenya Veterinary Association, Agricultural Finance
Corporation, Kenya National Farmer and Agricultural Producers Association, Kenya Seed Company.


                                                                                                             38

dependingon program and reform process phase and evolution. The KAPP Secretariat will
provide operational support to the RTF.

Comprehensive technology inventory, and institutional assessment of the research system and
establishment of a database.The entire set o f agricultural R&Dorganizations operating inKenya
would be assessedinterms o fmissions, mandates andgeographical coverage. The key
technologies generated over time would be assessedand categorized providing information on
development time, cost, adoption rates andwhere available impact. Research agenda formation
andappraisal methodologies, dissemination andtechnology delivery systems, M&E/ML/IA/ICT
systems, general and researchmanagement, physical assets, infrastructure, research and support
staff, human and physical capacity, financial andprocurement management systems, budgets and
work plans, fundingmechanisms, national-regional-internationalpartnerships would all form
parto fthe organizations' assessment. The inventory anddiagnostic report should be started prior
to credit effectiveness. The information gathered inthe inventory would be presented inthe form
o f a database. The databasewould constitute a live consultation instrumentto be kept
continuously updated. Inthe interim prior to NARS establishment, the KAPP Secretariat would
assume responsibility to keep the databaseupdated.

Learning sessions through study tours. Representatives o fthe RTFwould undertake learning
travel sessions (four) to assess successful experiences andbest practices inAfrica andelsewhere.

NARS Vision and Frameworkpaper. The progress of the consultative process and the analyses o f
the issues and outstanding gaps, would enable the RTFto define the guidingprinciples for the
operation o f a NARS inKenya. The vision would outline policy andlegal implication as well as
an institutional and implementationframework. A common functional framework would needto
include amongst others:

    Cost-effective and output value-enhancing networking mechanisms and instruments
    a shared and interrelated communication strategy, M I S and ICT
    a common research agenda formation and planningplatform
    joint or complementary human resources development strategies and systems
    asset and investment development and utilizationprocedures
    a unifiedmonitoring & evaluation andimpact assessment system
    quality control and assurance systems
    a fundingmechanisms for the entire NARS
    its interactions with the players o f the research-extension-trainingeducation continuum

The framework would comprise liaison systems o f the KenyanNARS with the regional and
intemational ARS and a set o f coordinating rules and mechanisms for management o f extemal
fundingfromthe donor community. The common general framework would also entail
embedded thematic networking mechanisms (water, agriculture, livestock, fisheries, forestry,
environment-NRM and, extension, education, policy, etc.) with all the relevant concemed
institutions.

Roadmap and time-bound implementationplan to move towards the NARS, including a
rationalization action plan. Inconjunction with the development o f the NARS Vision and



                                                                                              39

Framework, the RTFwould draft a roadmap and a timebound implementationplanto move from
the status quo to the structure envisaged by the NARS Vision. The implementation planwould
include a specific action planfor the rationalizationo fthe KenyanNARS inline with the NARS
Vision. The planwould include phased interventions for the restructuring o f the staff, physical
assets, infrastructure apart from the management and researchprogramming adjustments o f the
several research organizations.

The KAPP Secretariat would provide guidance and support to the implementation o f the Vision
andFramework through the roadmap and implementationplan, andwould assume M&E
functions.

Piloting of collaborative researchprograms. Buildinguponthe results o f the inventory, the RTF
would identify a number o fpriority thematic areas inwhich to pilot collaborative research
programs across institutions, including on strategic, cross-sectoral and cross-cutting themes (e.g.,
HIV/AIDS, landandwater degradation, market development andtrade andruralcredit). The
priority thematic areas would be endorsed bythe National Forum. Buildinguponthe experience
o fthe ARF under NARP 11, a competitive process to allocate funds would be managed bythe
KAPP. The experience gainedby different collaborationmechanisms would provide lessons to
feed into the consultative reform process.

Toolsfor collaboration. Development and activation o f specific tools for collaboration which
will contribute to the implementationo fthe NARSVision andFramework. These will include
policy instruments, institutional mechanisms and an incentive system to forge collaboration and
integration (common HRD strategy, ICT network, physical asset management policy,
governance policy, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms etc.)

Capacity building. Targeted capacitybuildingo f the scientific community (other thanKARI),in
areas o f need and weakness identified through the inventory, focussed on priorityresearch areas
andresearch collaborationmechanisms identifiedbythe RTF.

Sustainable Funding. Development o f an operational sustainable funding mechanism for the
entire NARS   .

Rationalization. Potential financing for initial investments for the NARS rationalizationprocess
as defined inthe Action Plan.

Sub-component 3.2: Support to the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI)

This sub-component will consolidate the investmentsmade duringNARPIand I1and further
evolve KARIinto a leaner and more efficient institution focussed on well identifiedpriority
research programs. The activities buildupon KARI's ThirdMedium Term Plan (MTP 111) as well
as specific findings and recommendations made by various external reviews on the scientific
quality of KARI's programs, the Beneficiary Assessment andthe NARPI1Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). KAPP would assist to address the key structural issues that need
decisive corrective measures: (i)  enhancing KARI's ability to demonstrate sizable field impact by
addressing shortcomings inits capacity and approaches to extend andup-scale successful



                                                                                                  40

technologies; (ii) improving its researchplanning, review and approval processes to reflect
changes promptedby feedbacks from end-users and or emerging challenges andto improve
accountability; (iii)revising the quality review and assuranceprocess (iv) paying greater
attention to socio-economic aspects within a biologically-dominated research system; (vi)
buildingan adequate ICT infrastructure; and (v) improving KARI's working environment and
the incentive structure for scientists. The consolidation o fKARIwill need to be progressively
consistent with the envisaged integrated rationalization plan o fthe national agriculturalresearch
system andwith the new extension policy framework. Thus, the activities under this sub-
component would be reviewed annually inorder to adjust its content and thrust to KAPP's
evolving agenda.

Activities will be carried out in four main areas: 1) Institutional Strengthening; 2) Research
Program; 3) Information Dissemination; and 4) Research and Development Funding.

Prior to KAPP effectiveness, KARImanagement will initiate meetings to disseminate the
findings o f the Beneficiary Assessment, the ExtemalProgram Review, the NARPI1
Implementation Completion Report andthe ATIRI Extemal Review to the scientists inall KARI
research centers. The purpose o fthese meetings will be to ensure that all staff are aware o f
findings andrecommendations made, and for scientists andmanagement to agree on the
appropriate steps to address shortcoming andbuildupon the identified strengths.

Institutionalstrengthening. Under institutional strengthening, KARIwould pursue the following
activities with project support (for a fuller discussion o f each issue, see the KARIProject
Description Report inthe Project File):

    Prioritization and resource allocation.
    Monitoring and Evaluation and Management Information Systems
    Quality review and assurance
    Human ResourceDevelopment
    Information and Communication Technology
    Decentralization
    Improved working environment and incentive structures.
    Infrastructure and upgrading

The project would also provide for targeted investment geared to the rationalization process o f
KARI's National and Regional research centers inline with the new overall research-extension-
education framework.

ResearchProgram. KAPP will support priorityproductiodfarming system-based commodity,
factor andcross cutting researchprograms andprojects identified inKARI's Medium Term Plan
(MTP) 111, subject to an annual review process to align KAPP funding with priorities. Across the
programs, there will be an effort to focus on factors limitingproduction incrops and livestock,
Abiotic andbiotic stresseswill be identified and addressed accordingly. Crop and livestock
commodities will be handledmore as an enterprise where linkages to industryand other related
commercial components at farm level will be promoted and strengthened. This notion is
supported by the views embraced inthe Eco-regional study report highlightingthe Key



                                                                                                 41

Enterprises Systems (KESs). This approach will shift attention to increasingprofits at farm level.
KAPP fundingwould helpto correct the current imbalances notedbythe various external
reviews inKARI's program structure and geographical coverage. The project will target shifts
andrebalancing on livestockvs. crop researchinvestmentparticularly to addressboth, animal
production andhealth issues o f the arid and semi-arid ecologies o fthe country; breeding vs.
animal husbandry; food vs. cash and industrial crop research. Programs that address food
security andincome enhancing issues would be planned at RegionalResearch stations according
to the best enterprise suitability andinterest o f the specific mandated areas. The MTP declared
ratio o f adaptive vs. appliedstrategic research interms o f 60:40 will be used as an initial
guideline bythe project subject to the review o fpriority setting and resource allocation
processes.

Highprioritywillbe given to the socio-economic programboth, interms o fsupport to the
research programperse, andas an instrument to understand prevailing economic, marketing and
social issues to improve the relevance o fthe research agenda. To this effect, inthe first year o f
KAPP operations, KARIwill develop a simple manual for basic financial analysis andimpact
assessmentto be usedby scientists inthe development and evaluation o f research proposals and
eventually their results. The manual will be accompanied by a training program for scientists in
all centers. A further area o fpriority will be bio-technology research activities conducted in
collaboration with other national and international research institutions. At the same time the
project would promote all collaborative research activities enhancing the rationalization process
o f the NARS. Activities addressing landandwater degradatiodmanagement (including water
catchment protection) issues, bio-safety, low environmental impact agriculture, disease andpest
resistance breeding andIPM, germplasm, genebank and seedvariety maintenance will all form
part o fthe KAPP agenda. Priority would be given to off-farm research issues such as
processinghalue-addition,storage and utilization, and marketingo fproducts.

Inorder to makeKARIresearchefforts morerelevantto theKenyanfarmingreality, allresearch
programs will mainstream approaches whereby technologies are tested ina wide range of
agronomic conditions, including low input conditions which characterize the majority of Kenyan
household farms.

A preliminary researchprogram to be funded byKAPP, whichwillbe subject to annual
revisions, is attached inthe Appendix.

Information dissemination. Under KAPP, KARIresearch programs will include a planfor
dissemination o f results inevery research proposal. This planshould be assessedduring the
approval process and funded accordingly. KARIwill also enhance collaboration with extension
andother intermediaryorganizations. This will be achievedthrough increased contacts between
KARIandthe extension andclient community inthe KAPPfora andplanninginstitutions.
Greater collaborationwill also be ensured bymodified implementation modalities of the
Agricultural Technology and InformationResponse Initiative (ATIRI). ATIRIproposals will no
longer be solicited from groups directly to the KARIcenters, but will arise from thejoint
planningprocesses for 0      s and DIPS(community, divisional, district levels) that capture the
farmer needs and demand interms o f extension and research activities to be implemented and are
validated by the Client Fora (see component 2.1). The ATIRI program under KAPP would thus



                                                                                                   42

not be a stand-alone KARIactivity but become the main means for planning, implementing,
monitoring and evaluating farmer demanddrivenresearch activities. To this endmixed forms o f
ATIRIwith extension approaches andthe integration inATIRI o fvalidated farmer developed
innovations, would improve the learning scope o fthis experience. Through the increased
linkages, ATIRI will also be able to buildupon the capacitybuildingand empowerment o f
farmer groups under Component 4, and will also respond to demands from farmers under the
technology up-scaling activity. ATIRI implementation modalities and institutional arrangements
would be streamlinedinline with the recommendations o f the recently conducted ATIRI
External Review as well as the BAYICR and ER, inparticular regardingthe decentralizationof
approval, allocation o f funding, disbursement and accountability to the centers.

Research and Development Funding. KAPP will continue to support on a selective basis MI'S
income-generatinginitiatives that provide foundation for the institution's long-term financial
viability and sustainability. The project will support selected enabling measures to assist KARI
inestablishing the Agricultural ResearchInvestmentService (ARIS), awholly owned subsidiary
private company. ARIS would undertake a number o f commercial activities to capitalize on the
over the institute's land resources and other assets. ARIS would also managethe
commercialization ofKARIcenters' consultancies and contractual work. However ARIS
activities would not compete with, or undercut other private sector players. Nor will ARIS drift
KARIaway from its core mandate and functions. ARIS activities shouldbe geared to generating
sustained demand from business intermediaries that serve farmers. When dealing directly with
final demanders, the activities would include exit plans andmechanisms to promote private
sector intermediaries. Activities to be funded by KAPP include capacity buildingfor scientists in
biddingfor contracts, the development o fa corporate business strategy and anaudit of
intellectual property rights.

Component4: Supportto FarmerElientEmpowerment(US$5.32 million,including 5.31
millionIDA Grant and0.01 millionGovernmentcontribution)

The empowerment o f farmers to demand and access to agricultural services is central to the
reorientation from a supply driven to a demand driven service system. Farmer empowerment
increases by developing institutional and financial mechanisms that will give farmers effective
control over extension and research services. This would start through their direct involvement
inthe envisagedreformprocess. This component aims at establishing andsupportingclient
consultative structures at all levels, providing means for improved access to information on
technology and services. Farmer empowerment will also foster farmers' capacity to plan
enterprise development with increased amount of information. Inaddition, provisions are made
for targeted support to: (i) scale-up application of technology innovations through establishment
o f producer organizations even when they are emerging as networks o f farmers' groups; and(ii)
augment relevance and capacity o f associations and commodity organizations to provide services
to their members. Finally, it is foreseen that farmer empowerment will demand training
activities that will help to build farmers' institutional, management and technical capacities.

Sub-component 4.1: Institutionsfor Farmer Organization and Emuowerment.




                                                                                                43

Farmers will be supported to buildtheir own consultative institutions at national andgrass root
level (farmers' fora at village, division, district and national level). The national Farmers'
Forum (NFF) launchedby the K S (see component 1) will be a principal organ for farmers and
other clients to articulate their demands and will take into consideration other stakeholders
interests byconvening extraordinary meetings that include a broadrange o f agricultural service
users (farmers' representatives and associations, CBOs, agri-business entrepreneurs, etc.). The
farmers' forum will seek to mobilize support for farmer empowerment andinteract with the other
fora on the development of a comprehensive policy framework and strategy for farmer
empowerment within the scope o fthe agricultural service reforms. The National Farmers Fora
would quarterly meetings per annum except inthe first year when it will holdbi-monthly
meetings, resulting ina total o f about 20 meetings inthree years.

A farmer empowerment specialist at the KSwill support and operationalize the NFF. The KS
will draw on members o f the NFFto form a Task force to undertake specific assignments that
will assist the NFFto articulate farmers views inthe context o fnational policy andalso keep
abreast o f trade issues that affect its members. The NFF will draw from the inventory o fnational
agricultural service organizations to advise and interact inthe ETF and RTFon measures that
need be taken to reflect farmers' interests intheir respective reform processes.

The DSUs will be the secretariat o fthe farmers' for at the district level. The K S will support the
D S Uto deepen the consultative process to the grass roots farmers invillages. The process will
require contracted service providers to facilitate fora buildingat Village, LocatiodDivisional and
District levels through a bottom-up approach. The village forum would consist o f as many
Common Interest Groups (CIGs) that appoint two representatives per group to the village fora.
The village fora will inturn send two representatives to the divisional forum. For effective
functioning the divisional fora will comprise o f no more than 50 members. The district fora will
be comprised o f a maximumo f thirty members. Agri-business dealers andmarketing agents
mayjoin any level o f farmers' fora suited to the operation o f their services. Farmers will leam
through the client fora meetings how to manage their institutions. They will also leamhow to
identify, prioritize and select enterprises and services that match their needs.

Strengthening access to information.
The KS will support the NFFto buildeffective communication links betweenNational farmers'
organizations and grass roots farmers' institutions. The KSwill employ use o f interactive mass
media communication strategies to ensure that rural farmers have access to information through
a broad range o f mass media tools (radio programs, pamphlets, stickers, T-shirtsetc). The K S
will support the NFFto establish electronic connectivity with district service units andprovide
trainingfor users.

Sub-component 4.2: Targeted interventionsfor Client Empowerment

Farmers Forawill be involved intargeted interventions inresearch methods, extension
approaches and client empowerment as well as learning to operate the fora as an institutional
mechanismto determine demand for services through a demand driven process. Activities that
enable farmers direct involvement inthe reform process (see component 1andabove sub-
component 4.1) and demanddriven access to extension andresearch services are described



                                                                                                  44

elsewhere (see component 2- Extension learning pilots and component 3- Support to
W I n f o r m a t i o n Dissemination).

Interventions specifically targeted to farmer empowerment will focus on the transition o f
informal groups to producer organizations and subsequently scaling-up the level o f technology
interventions to meet market demands. Targeted interventions through farmer grants, on growth
o f informal groups into networks and producer organizations, will specifically aim to increase
the capacity o f the farmers' forum to (i)strengthen existing farmers organizations from the small
farmers dispersed groups at village level up to commodity organizations and apex farmers
organizations at national level and (ii)as part o fthe consolidation o f grass roots groups KSwill
help emergingproducer groups to scale-up their investment inthe applicationoftechnology
innovations as they buildbigger andmore formally recognizednetworks,




                                                                                                 45

                                     Annex 5: ProjectCosts
                  KENYA: KenyaAgriculturalProductivityProject(KAPP)



   Project Cost By Component and/or                   Local        Foreign         Total
   Activity                                           us          us               us
                                                      $million     %million        $million

   1. Facilitation of Policy and Institutional
   Reform                                                      6.0           1.5            7.5
   2. Support to Extension System Reform                       1.7           1.5            3.2
   3. Support to Research System Reform     ''                41.9           8.9            50.8
   4. Support to FarmerKlient Empowerment                      3.5           1.6            5.1
   Total Baseline Cost                                        53.1          13.5            66.6
     Physical Contingencies                                    0.9          0.5              1.4
     Price Contingencies                                       1.9           0.5            2.4
   TotalProjectCosts'2                                        55.9          14.5            70.4


            ProjectCosts By Category                  Local        Foreign             Total
                                                    US$ million U S $ million US$ million
   Works                                                 1.3           1.2              2.5
   Goods                                                 5.5          2.6                8.0
   Consulting Services                                   3.2           1.7              4.9
   Training andWorkshops                                 3.4          2.4                5.8
   Grants                                                5.1          4.8                9.9
   Operating Costs                                      11.3           1.9              13.3
   KARISalaries                                         26.0          0.0               26.0
   Total Project Costs                                  55.8          14.6              70.4


 Includes KARIsalaries o f 26 million
21dentifiable taxes and duties are US$m 2.7, andthe total project cost, net o f taxes, is US$m
67.6. Therefore, the share o fproject cost net o ftaxes is 96 %.
 Does not include US$ 10MillionGEF financing expected. Specific activities to be assigned to
components during GEF processing.




                                                                                                46

                              Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                    KENYA: KenyaAgriculturalProductivityProject(KAPP)


Implementationo fKAPP will be achieved through an institutional framework set up bythe
Government to implement its Strategy for Revitalizing Agriculture (SRA). Manyo f these
institutions have already beenset upbythe Government, others are to be set up through the
project. There will be three lead institutions, the Ministry o f Agriculture, the Ministry o f
Livestock andFisheries Development, and the KenyaAgricultural Research Institute- KARI.
Overall coordination will be under a KAPP Secretariat. Because KAPP is will be implemented
at different levels and across different ministries it relies on several institutional structures. The
following is a short description o fthe composition and function o f each o f the KAPP structures
followed by implementation arrangements by component.

KAPP Institutional structures:

Inter-ministerialCoordinatingCommittee (SRA-ICC) composed o fthe Permanent
Secretaries o f seven sectoral ministries Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries Development,
Cooperatives, Water, Environment andNaturalResources, Local Govemment and Lands will
provide linkages to line ministries, policy and administrative support to KAPP. This body was
set up by the Government to oversee the implementation o f the SRA andwill appoint a KAPP
Steering Committee.

KAPPSteeringCommitteewill be one o f2 bodiesbeing created specifically for purposes o f
KAPP. The KAPP-SC will be appointed by TIC and is composedo f chief executives and
directors o f all the ministries represented inthe ICC. Ad hoc task forces will be formed as
needed bythe steering committee which will create links with the operational level inthe
ministries.

KAPPSecretariat.KAPP Secretariat will beresponsible for the implementation o fthe project.
The Secretariat will be secretary to the KAPP Steering Committee, and convener o fproject
specific consultative processes at the national level that could include the National Forum, but
will also include extension and researchtaskforces. The KAPP Secretariat will be responsible
for managingthe consultativeprocesses, as well as coordinating the information, monitoring,
evaluation and analytical input into those processes, financial management, information
communication andpublic relations associated with KAPP. The secretariat will be staffed by
professionals recruitedthrough an open and competitive process, including the Project
Coordinator, specialists inresearch, extension, farmer and client empowerment, monitoring and
evaluation, communications, finance andprocurement.

KARI. KARImanagement willberesponsible for implementationofthe KARIsub-component
andwill have a centralrole infinancial management o f all project components. KARIwill have
ultimate fiduciary responsibility over the project's financial, auditing andprocurement functions.
However, KARImay delegate and supervise some o f the financial andprocurement functions to
the KS and DSUs andwill buildtheir capacity for financial andprocurement management over
the project implementationperiod.


                                                                                                      47

NationalForum. The SRA envisions aNationalForum o fagricultural sector stakeholders
meeting once a year under the chairmanship o f the President to ensure political will and
visibility, to review implementationo f the SRA o fwhich KAPP is an integral part. This forum
will bringtogether leadandcooperating ministries inthe agriculturalsector, implementing
institutions, farmers organizations, civil society, private sector and development partners. The
KAPP secretariat will support this forum inanumber o fways -financially, with information,
with adequate representation from the districts, andby supporting specific taskforces on
improving agricultural research and agricultural extension. The Extensionand Research
taskforces will draw from the National For a and report to them on insights gained through pilot
activities, regional and international studytours, analytical work, and databases generated by the
project. By the end of 2007, it is the intention to have the work generated by these task forces
codified into policy for nationwide implementationinthe second phase o f the APL.

DistrictService Units.District Service Units(DSU) will act as localKAPP secretariats. They
will be the secretariat o fthe District Farmers Forum, coordinate the tasks under the project
including consultative processes at the district and division level, planning, generation and
monitor o f workplans, monitoring and evaluation, financial management and public relations.
EachD S Uwill have 2 professional staff, a District Coordinator and a Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist, and support staff including an accountant, secretary and driver. The D S U
will be steeredby an enhanced version o fthe District Agricultural Committee, whichwill be
composed o frepresentatives of line departments and implementing agencies, local NGO's
CBO's andprivate sector representatives. While Government representation should not be a
majority, it i s expected that at least the Departments o f Agriculture, Livestock Production,
Veterinary Services, Cooperatives, and Environment will be represented

Implementationresponsibilityby component:

Component1:Facilitationof InstitutionalReforms.The institutional reform
component will be implementedby the KAPP Secretariat under the technical guidance o f the
TIC andthe political guidance o fthe Inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee - ICC.

Component2: Supportto ExtensionReform.The extensioncomponent will beimplemented
by two ministries- Agriculture, andLivestock andFisheries Development. The Extension
Taskforce under the National Forumwill bringinput from private and civil society service
providers, and any others interested in, or able to make a contributiontoward improving
extension services inKenya. Universities, commodity organizations, NGOs and private input
suppliers can be expected to become membersof this forum.


be implemented by KARIunder the guidanceo f the TIC . A taskforce to look at wider issues in
Component3: Supportto ResearchReform.The KARIpart o fthe research component will

agricultural researchwill bringinput fiom other Government and commodity research intuitions,
anduniversitiesto deliberate on how best to organize anintegratednational agricultural research
system. The non-KARI parts o f the research component will be implemented by the KAPP
Secretariat.




                                                                                                 48

Component4: Supportto Farmer andClientEmpowerment. This component will be
implementedby the KAPP Secretariat through District Services Unitsat the district level.
KENTAP, private sector and commodity specific umbrellabodies as identifiedbythe KAPP
Secretariat will also undertake activities. Capacity buildingactivities will be going at boththe
district andnational level. District Farmers Forums will help determine which organizations are
best placedto deliver specific capacitybuildinginterventions inthe districts.

Rationalefor ImplementationArrangements

The institutional arrangements foreseen under the project are centered on the KAPP Secretariat.
The Secretariat is composed o f carefully identifiedselected individuals able to add value to the
process while bringingexperience, insights and contacts from line departments. The secretariat
isplaced inrelatively new institutional territory. Currently, no entity inthe agricultural sector
has such a wide-ranging mandate. However it was felt necessary for KAPP to be outside of
individual line ministries because of the cross cutting nature o f interventions foreseen that range
fromfarmers involvedinbothcrop andlivestock activities to issues inwater, forests andother
natural resources.

Inthe Kenyanbureaucracy cross-cutting issueswere not adequately addressedwhentakenby
one particular ministry. This is reflected inthe SR4, and some o f the new cross-Government
institutions involved inoverseeing its implementation. Linkingthe KAPP secretariat to the
institutions created inthe Strategy, an inter-ministerial coordinating committee o fministers and a
technical coordinating committee of Permanent Secretaries as well as the agricultural sector
working group inthe Ministry of Planningprovides the necessary cross cutting links needed to
make such a far reachingproject work.

The KAPP secretariat will face capacity constraints. The skills needed to guide a policy reform
process, interact at highlevels, network and lobby for desired outcomes respectfully but
successfully, does not come naturally to manypublic sector employees Kenya. This kindo f skill
is more common inadvocacy NGOs andresearch institutes that do not operate under traditional
Government bureaucracy, which i s why the maximum level o f stakeholder consultation and
participation will support the process and those who will be working on it full time. The project's
reliance on KARIfor financial management is also meant to address the capacity constraints that
currently exist within the line ministriesand at the district level.




                                                                                                   49

           KAPPIMPLEMENTATIONFRAMEWORK




       I
       I
       I                      I




  District
  Farmers               District Service

\ Forum                      Unit

            /




  Divisional
  Farmers
   Forum




   Village
   Farmers
   Forum


                                        Legend


                                        0    Government institutions
                                             WP    institutions
                                        -Supervisoryrelationship
                                             Oversight relationship




                                                                    50

                                Annex 7: FinancialManagement
                  KENYA: KenyaAgriculturalProductivityProject(KAPP)

A: FinancialManagementArrangements

Countryissues
The results of the latest Kenya Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) dated
April, 2001indicatedthat ...fiduciary risk inpublic spending is assessed as high. whilea lack
                           "
of compliance with establishedfinancial andprocurement regulations have completely rendered
many initiatives aimed at strengthening the control environment ineffective, issues of limited
execution, inadequate monitoring, insufficient capacity and lack of enforcement also need to be
resolved. 'I




There are highfinancial management risks due to a weak control andlow capacity environment.
Government accounts are regularly late and incomplete. Inter-agencyreporting i s slow and
sometimes difficult to achieve, where hierarchical lines are blurred or are foreign to the day-to-
day structures and management o fthe institution. Accountability chains are weak, andpenalties
are extremely light or nonexistent.

Mitigatingmeasures
A new Government is now inplacewith a commitment to ensuring compliance with legislation,
strengthening regulatory institutions and fightingcorruption.

With the support o fa number o fdonor assisted initiatives, including the IDA-hndedPublic
Sector Management Technical Assistance (PSMTA) project, Government is seeking to rapidly
enhance the financial accountability framework inorder to:

    Mitigate fiduciary risk inpublic expenditure management
    Achieve economy, efficiency and effectiveness inthe use o fpublic funds
    Enhance transparency and accountability
    Enhance staff capacity inpublic financial management

A number o f project-specific risk mitigation arrangements have been proposed in order to
address noted country concerns:

    a) An Inter-ministerial Steering Committee has been established with membership
        comprising senior management o f respective implementing agencies. The Committee i s
        responsible for overall project implementation supervision, monitoring and reporting.
    b) Institutional arrangements during Phase Iplace all fiduciary responsibility with KARI
        with the KAPP secretariat "seconded" to KARI, duringwhich time it is expected to draw
        on the fiduciary compliance experience o f KARIfor capacity building.
    c) The independent annual audit o f the project will be subcontracted to a private firm of
        auditors who will report to the Government CAG. This arrangement is intended to ensure
        effectiveness and efficiency o f the audit process.




                                                                                                  51

   d) The project will be subject to regular IDA supervision missions aimed at closely
       monitoringperformance and the timelyresolution of issues.

Financialmanagementsystem
The objectives of the project's financial management system are:

   To ensure that funds are used only for their intendedpurposes inan efficient and economical
   manner
   To ensure that funds are properly managed andflow smoothly, adequately, regularly and
   predictably inorder to meet the objectives o f the project
   To enable the preparation o f accurate and timely financial reports, including financial
   monitoring reports
   To enable project management to monitor the efficient implementation o f the project
   To safeguard the project assets andresources

Furthermore, the following are necessary features o f a strong financial management system:

   KAPPshould have an adequate number andmix o f skilled and experienced financial
   management staff capable of producing FMRs
   The internal control system should ensure the conduct o f an orderly and efficient
   procurement andpayment process, andproper recording and safeguarding o f assets and
   resources
   The accounting system should support the project's requests for funding andmeet its
   reporting obligations to the GOK and IDA
   The system should be capable o fproviding financial data to measure performance when
   linked to the output o f the project
   An independent, qualified auditor should be appointedto periodically review the Project's
    financial statements and internal controls

Strengthsandweaknesses
The notable financial management strength is that the financial management andprocurement
capacities o f one of the principal implementing agencies, KARIhas been assessedand found to
be generally satisfactory.

Weaknesses infinancial management have been identified inthe following areas:

   Adequate counterpart funds may not be allocatedina timely fashion. Mitigationmeasures
    comprise advance assurance from GOK o f its commitment to ensuring fundingobligation
    compliance and an up front deposit o f one quarter's GOK requirement as a condition o f
    effectiveness. Inaddition, arrangements for quarterlyjoint reviews with MOF, implementing
    agencies and IDA are proposed.

    GOK continues to suffer major financial reporting weaknesses, notably delays insubmission
    of audited accounts. It is proposedthat KAPP's annual financial statements be subject to
    independent private auditor onbehalf o f the Government CAG. The Inter-ministerial




                                                                                             52

    Steering Committee will also be assigned the responsibility o f overseeing the project's
    compliance with financial reporting obligations.

    The KAPP secretariat i s a new organization without experience inBank financed projects.
    This will be mitigated by delegation of financial management to KARI and the proposed
    "secondment" o fthe project's keymanagement and accountingpersonnelto KARIduring
    phase I. this time secretariat staffwill be expected to gain experience inmanaging
            During
    Bank-financed projects and developing strong accounting and internal control systems based
    on KARI's experience. It is further proposedthat close involvement o f the Bank project
    management andCountry team members will center on conducting training sessions and
    regularly supervisingperformance.

Institutionaland implementationarrangements

 KARIwillberesponsible for the overall financial management o fthe project, inaccordance
with soundandstandard guidelines acceptable to IDA.KAPP andKARIwill oversee the
management o f Special andProject Accounts, the preparation o f financial reports and annual
financial statements, withdrawal applications and other financial reports for IDA, e.g FMRS.

KARIwill oversee the statutory audit of project's financial statements, ensuringthat the process
is carried out efficiently and inline with the terms o f funding agreement. It will also be
responsible for ensuringthat matters arising from audits are dealt with expeditiously.

The proposedproject will be fully integrated into the activities o f the KAPP secretariat and
KARI, the principal implementing agencies. Respectiveaccounting andbudgetingsystems will
therefore be fully compatible with the Government systems andIDA Financial Management
Guidelines. The KAPP Secretariat andKARIwill have accountants on the project team to handle
financial management matters.

Flow of Funds
Special Accounts -GOK will establish two U S dollars special accounts, one for the IDA Grant
andone for the IDACredit. The special accounts will receive dollar depositshransfers from the
main IDA credit or grant accounts.

Project Operating Accounts - Three localcurrency project operating accounts will be opened,
two to be operated by the KAPP Secretariat, and one byKARI. The KAPP Secretariat requires
two accounts because activities implemented under the K S will be financed byboththe IDA
Credit and Grant. The operating accounts will form the primary source o f financing for project
activities andwill be managed directly bythe respective implementing agencies.

District Project Accounts - Everydistrict will open a local currency project account with a
commercial bank at the district level, to be operated by the authorized signatories. This will
form the primary source o f financing for project activities to be implemented at the respective
districts.




                                                                                                53

The authorized signatories to operate the above accounts inrespect o f KAPP secretariat
components will be as follows -

       Account                  Signatories                           Comments
1      Special Accounts         Permanent Secretary (MOF).            Any one o fthe Authorized
       under IDA Credit         Director -ERD (MOF) Desk Officer      Representatives (Signatories)
       and IDA Grant            World Bank, ERD (MOF), Accounts       to be valid authority for SOEs
                                Controller (MOF)                      and Form 1903, for the purpose o f
                                                                      withdrawal o f Credit or Grant
                                                                      proceeds.
2      Project Operating        Director - KARI,                      Any two signatories tojointly
       Account under IDA        DeputyDirector F & A -KARI            sign cheques and other bank
       Credit                   Chef Accountant - KARI                documents
       and IDAGrant
3      District Project         A: District Accountant,               One signatory from class A to
       Accounts under              District Coordinator               jointly sign with the signatory
       IDA Grant                                                      from class B
                                B: ProjectAccountant
                                   Chief Accountant KARI


Inthe case ofJSARI, the localprojectsaccounts at the headquarters andresearch centers willbe operated
based on the current procedures and signatories.


Fundsflow arrangements for the project shallbe as follows:
    IDA will make aninitial advance disbursement from the proceeds o fthe Credit bydepositing
    into the Borrower-operated Special Account
    Actual expenditure will be reimbursed through submission o f Withdrawal Applications
    together with FMRs.
    GOK counterpart funds andtransfers from the SpecialAccounts (for payment o ftransactions
    inlocalcurrency) willbe deposited inrespective agencies' project accounts inaccordance
    with GOK exchequer control and funding arrangements. Counterpart funds will be allocated
    through the normal central government budgetary process.


District remittances -Activities inrespective implementingDistricts will be finded through
periodic funds transfers from the Special Accounts as outlined under the Flow o f Funds. Each
District will open a project account to receive and disburse remittances. Funds will be remitted
on the basis of an analysis of funding proposals vetted by District Services Units and approved
bythe secretariat. Districts' requests for funds will be receivedon a monthlybasis and
remittances made duringthe followingmonth.

Accountability An initial advance equivalent to three months projected expenses will beremitted
to the bank account o fthe individual districts. The districts will utilize the funds to meet the
eligible expenditure based on approved budget and work plans, following the accounting
procedure outlined inthe KAPP Financial Management Manual. At the end o f the month a
request for reimbursement o f the amount disbursedwill be submitted to the KAPP secretariat
along with the appropriate supporting documents, which will include (a) paidvouchers for



                                                                                                          54

expenditure incurred inoriginal (a copy is retained at the district), (b) Bank Statement for the
current month (c) bank reconciliation statement for the month (d) Original o f the cash book folio
(e) statement o f expenditure (SOE) inthe prescribed form, and a copy o fthe progress report on
the activities carried out duringthe month, showing the actual progress against the agreedtarget
for the individual monitorable indicators. This will be submitted to KAPP secretariat by the first
week o f the following month. The Secretariat will review this information, reconcile amounts
submitted against advances, and together with respective Districts' workplans, determine the         1

amount to be advanced insubsequent periods. The Secretariat will prepare and submit quarterly
FMRs to IDA on the basis o f this information. Reporting to GoK will be on a monthly basis in
the form of SOE, prepared inaccordance with Treasury guidelines.


Staffing
The KAPP secretariat and KARIhave respectively assigned Finance Officers to be responsible
for project financial management. Respective Finance Officers will have various level
accounting personnel reporting to them and assigned various accounting responsibilities as
detailed ina Project Financial Operations Manual. District accounting personnelwill report to
the KAPP secretariat through District Services Units. The project's key accountingpersonnel
will be expected to attend procurement, financial management anddisbursement training
sessions conducted by the Bank Country Office.


Description of Financial Management Arrangements

Internal Controls and Financial Management Manual
The project's internal controls will be based on the established KARIand GOK accounting and
intemal control systems anddocumented inthe Project Financial Operations Manual. The
manual will be subject to review by the Bank FMS.

The procedures to be usedby the project to maintain its records will include the requirement for
cross references to supporting documentationinthe SOE supporting schedules inorder to
facilitate the inspection o fthese schedules andimprove the maintenanceof the project's records,

Project Financial Operations Manual
The Manual will describe the accounting system: the major transaction cycles o f the project;
funds flow processes; the accountingrecords, supporting documents, computer files and specific
accounts inthe financial statements involved inthe processingo f transactions; the list of
accounting codes used to group transactions (chart o f accounts); the accounting processes from
the initiation o f a transaction to its inclusion inthe financial statements; authorization procedures
for transactions; the financial reporting process usedto prepare the financial statements,
including significant accounting estimates anddisclosures; financial and accounting policies for
the Project; budgetingprocedures; financial forecastingprocedures; procurement and contract
administration monitoring procedures; procedures undertaken for the replenishment o f the
Special Account; and auditing arrangements.




                                                                                                    55

Planning and Budgeting
Budgeting for the project has beenundertaken centrallybythe KAPP secretariat andKARIin
consultation and extensive detailed inputby respective implementing agencies. IDAreporting
guidelines provide for periodic activity, cash flow andprocurement projection analysis and
review on an ongoing basis byway o f Financial Management Reports.

At the District andcommunity level, theDistrict Coordinators willberesponsible for authorizing
expenditures for their respective components inaccordance with the agreedbudgets.

To facilitate standardization, the Project Financial Operations Manual will include templates o f
budget proposals.

Books of accounts and list of accounting codes
The project's accounting records will be maintainedon computerized accounting systems. A list
of accounts codes (Chart ofAccounts) for the project will be integrated. This will match the
classification o f expenditures and sources and application of funds to be sat out inthe Credit
Agreement. The Chart o f Accounts will be developed ina way that allows project costs to be
directly related to specific work activities and outputs o fthe project. This process is required to
be inplace by Credit Effectiveness, along with the Project FinancialOperational Manual.

Audit arrangements

Internal Audit
KARI's existing internal audit arrangements are considered satisfactory for purposes o fthe
project, The KAPP secretariat will, duringPhase I,     develop an internal audit function based on
KARI's experience. The internal audit functions carry out periodic reviews o f activities,
compliance with accounting andinternal control procedures and carry out ad hoc investigations
andreviews underthe direction o fthe KAPP SteeringCommitteeto whom they will report. The
Committee will be responsible for ensuring that audit recommendations and followed up and
implemented. Internal Audit activities will cover KARI, the KAPP secretariat andDistricts.

External Audit
The Office o f the Controller & Auditor General (CAG) i s primarilyresponsible for the auditing
of all government projects. However, it was agreed, inline with the findings o f the December
2003 Country Portfolio Performance Review, that the Controller andAuditor Generalwould
identify and appoint a qualified external auditor for the project on agreed terms o f reference. It i s
recommendedthat the project audit be subcontracted to a private auditor for reasons that:
0   IDAhas continuedto experience delays inreceipt o f auditedfinancial statements, largely
    owing to lack o f technical capacity inthe office o f the CAG; and
0   The project entails multiple implementing agencies, requiring multiple audit locations. The
    existing setup and audit process o f the office o fthe C A G is considered unsuitable for such an
    arrangement.

The firm o f auditors subcontracted to carry out the audit should meet the IDA'Srequirements in
terms of independence, qualifications and experience. Separate Annual Audited Financial
Statements covering the activities o f the KAPP secretariat and KARI, takinginto consideration



                                                                                                    56

the new Audit Policy Guidelines o fthe World Bank should be submitted to IDAwithin six
months after end of each financial year.

Reportingand monitoring

Financia1Monitoring Reports
Formats o f the various periodic financial monitoring reports (FMR) to be generated from the
financial management system will be developed. There will be clear linkages betweenthe
information inthese reports and the Chart o fAccounts. The financial reports will be designed to
provide quality andtimely information to project management, implementing agencies, and
various stakeholders on project performance.

The following contents o f quarterly FMRs will be producedbythe KAPP secretariat andKARI:-

    Financial Reports:
    -
    -  Sources andUses of Fundsby FundingSource
       Uses o f Funds byProject ActivityKomponent
    PhysicalProgress (Output Monitoring) Report
    Procurement Report

The formats for FMRswere defined as part o f the draft PIP and agreed upon duringnegotiations.
The PIP will be finalized by Credit Effectiveness.

Financial Statements
DuringPhaseI,    Consolidated Annual Financial Statements comprising the activities ofthe
KAPP secretariat and KARIwill be prepared. The financial statements should be prepared in
accordance with InternationalPublic Sector Accounting Standards (which inter alia includes the
applicationo fthe cash basis o f recognition o f transactions). The IDA Credit Agreement will
require the submission o f audited financial statements to the Bank within six months after the
year-end.

Project Financial Statements will comprise:

       A Statementof Sources andUses of Funds/CashReceiptsandPaymentsfor each
       funded phase which recognizes all cash receipts, cash payments and cash balances
       controlled by the entity; and separately identifies payments by thirdparties onbehalf o f
       the entity.

       The AccountingPoliciesAdopted andExplanatoryNotes.The explanatorynotes
       should be presented ina systematic manner with items on the Statement of Cash Receipts
       andPayments being cross referenced to any related information inthe notes for each
       funded phase. Examples o f this information include a summary o f fixed assetsby
       category of assets, and a summary o f SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individual
       withdrawal applications; and




                                                                                               57

    3. A ManagementAssertion that Bank funds have been expended inaccordance with the
         intended purposes as specified inthe relevant World Bank legal agreement for each
         funded phase.

Indicative formats o f these statements will be developed inaccordance with IDArequirements
byCredit Effectiveness.

Supervisionplan
A FinancialManagement supervision missionwill beconductedat least every six months. The
mission's objectives will include that o f ensuring that strong financial management systems are
maintained for the project throughout its life. Reviews will be carried out regularly, upon receipt
o f quarterly FMRs to ensure that expenditures incurredbythe project remain eligible for IDA
fbnding.The Project Status Report (PSR) will include a financial management rating for the
component. This will be arrived at bythe Country Office FinancialManagement Specialist after
an appropriate review.

ProjectRisks
The critical risk facing this project is GoK's commitment to see through the implementation o f
reforms inresearch and extension as envisaged under the project.

Specific Project risks here include:

    The large number o fparties andtransactions involved, the small value and multiplicity o f
    contracts, and the scattered locations o f the subprojects that render problematical ex-ante
    controls across all individual sub-projects

    Accounting difficulties arising fi-om disbursement to the beneficiaries' bank accounts or to
    District accounts is based on progress reports while the supporting documents are best kept at
    the level where the expenses are incurred

    Community/fanner groups may lack the necessary financial management capacity

     Community/farmer representatives may not be truly representative o f the community (Le.
     elite capture o f institutions andpolitical interference)

    Risks associatedwith the handlingo f substantial cash transactions including theft and fiaud

Additionally, risks often faced byProjects inKenya include:

     Shortage of liquidity at the central treasury delaying project implementation through lack o f
    counterpart funds andor inability to access counterpart funds because the project is not
    "inscribed" inthe national budget;

    Weak financial management andprocurement capacity delaying implementation;

Country andProject risks canbe summarized as follows:



                                                                                                 58

*      These will be mitigated by adoption o f a comprehensive Project Financial Operations Manual, Supervision
       by the KART finance officer, Community ownership and direct implementation o f planned activities,
**     regular audits, and inclusion o f capacity building components inthe Project.
       These items are considered non significant as long as mitigating factors, as described in the FM Action
***    Plan, are put inplace.
       The new Government i s currently implementing            major reforms in corruption, governance and the
       judiciary, with the expectation that these risks will be mitigated.

Overall RiskAssessment
1. The project financial management risk is assessed as beingmoderate providedthat the
financial management arrangements are properly implemented andthe following financial
management action plan satisfactorily addressedinpractice. The Bank's report-based
disbursements instrument "financial management reporting" (FMR)will be progressively
introduced and should be hlly effective by the end o f Phase I.




                                                                                                             59

FinancialManagementAction Plan

                Action                                           Due Date       Conditionality
                Final Project Implementation Plan (PIP)          Effectiveness  Condition of
                 accepted by IDA.                                               Effectiveness

                      ..
                 Financial management system established. This Effectiveness    Condition of
                 includes:                                                      Effectiveness
                      .   Procedures Manuals
                          Information System
                          Training

                Project accounts opened and initial deposits o f
                 counterpart funds made.                                        Effectiveness

                Ability o fKAPP andKARIto prepareFinancial
                Reports and o f implementing agencies to                        Effectiveness
                prepare FinancialManagement Report input.



 B: DisbursementArrangements

Disbursements from IDAwill be made on the basis o f Withdrawal Applications accompanied by
FMRs, direct payment andspecial commitments. Appropriately approvedproject work plans,
including detailed procurement plans will determine the level o f the special accounts. IDA would
make disbursements from the proceeds o f the Credit by depositinginto Borrower-operated
Special Accounts to expedite Program implementation. Advances to the Special Accounts
would be usedby the Borrower to finance IDA'Sshare ofprogram expenditures under the
proposedCredit. Another acceptable method o f withdrawing funds from the Credit is the direct
payment method, involving direct payments from the Credit to a thirdparty for works, goods and
services uponthe Borrower's request. Payments may also be made to commercial banks for
expenditures against IDA special commitments covering commercial banks' Letters o f Credit.
IDA'SDisbursementLetter stipulates aminimumapplication value for direct payment and
special commitment procedures. The flow o f funds from respective Special Accounts to project
accounts, districts andproject activities will be as detailed under the preceding Flow o f Funds
section. IDAwill have the right, as reflected inthe Development Credit Agreement, to suspend
disbursement o f the Funds ifreporting requirements are not complied with.




                                                                                                60

                                 Annex 8: Procurement
              KENYA: KenyaAgriculturalProductivityProject(KAPP)


The last Kenya Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was conducted in 1997.
Followingthe findings andrecommendations o fthe CPAR, the Government o fKenya
(GOK) applied for the Bank's support to implement the recommendations o fthe CPAR, and
subsequently received from the Bank an IDFgrant which was approvedin 1998. Usingthe
proceeds o f the grant, GOK started a procurement reform program. One of the main
outcomes o f the reformprogram was the establishment and gazettment inMarch 2001 o f
National Public Procurement Regulations, which govern all public procuring entities, and
production of standard biddingdocuments for works and goods. The Public Procurement
Regulations allow the Bank procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in
the national regulations. The Government's standard biddingdocuments andprocedures for
N C B have been reviewedby the Bank andfound to be acceptable.

Procurement of goods andworks for all IDA financed components will be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999).

Consulting services by firm or individuals financed by IDA will be awarded inaccordance
with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by WorldBank
Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1977and January 1999, and May 2002).
The appropriate World Bank standardbiddingdocuments will be used for all International
Competitive Bidding(ICB), and the World Bank's standard Request for Proposals (RFP) for
the selection o f consultants.

ProcurementPlan
A procurementplancovering the goods, works consultancy service contracts for the first year
of project implementationwas finalized during appraisal. The planincludes relevant
information on goods, works and consulting services under the Project as well as the timing
of each milestone inthe procurement process. The procurement schedule will be updated
once every six months andreviewedby IDA duringsupervision missions. As
community/farmer demand-driven investments cannot be identified up-front, an operational
manual that provides all the guidelines that will be used inpreparing, screening, and
implementing sub-projects i s under preparation (using ATIRI module) and will be finalized
before project effectiveness.

Advertising
Two General Procurement Notices (GPN), one for consulting services and one for goods,
will be prepared for the Project and published inthe UnitedNations Development Business
(UNDB). GPNswill describe all ICB for goods, as well as consulting assignments costing
U S $200,000 equivalent or more per contract.




                                                                                          61

ProcurementImplementation
Ultimate responsibility for procurement will rest with KARI, who will supervise procurement
bythe KAPP Secretariat and DSUs. Consultancy services andtechnical assistance, ICB and
N C B contracts for goods andworks will be procured centrally by the KAPP Secretariat (KS)
and KARI. However, procurement of goods, works, and services for community-related
activities under the Farmer Empowerment Component will be carried out by beneficiary
communities/farmer groups under the guidance and supervisionof the respectiveDistrict
Services Units (DSUs). Procurement of community-based requirements could be classified
into two categories. Simple procurements which communities can carry out themselves with
minimumexternalassistance, andrelatively complex procurements for which communities
would needtechnical expertise may not exist . For the latter category o fprocurement,
communities will seek assistance from KARIand the KS through the DSUs. DSUs will be
responsible for the procurement o ftheir unit-specific needs, but will also be overseeing the
smooth implementation o f community procurements andpreparingperiodical reports on the
procurement status o f their respective communities, and submitting suchreports to KARIand
the KS.

Goods
Withouttakinginto account expenditures onprocurement o finputs incommunity sub-
projects or research activities, the total cost o f goods under the IDA credit is estimated at
US$ 5.6 million. Vehicles andoffice equipment including computers, copiers, etc., costing
US $150,000 equipment or more per contract will be procured centrally by KS andKARI
under I C B contracts. Procurement for community sub-projects will be carried out by
beneficiary communities inseparate small contracts.

Goods estimated to cost less than U S $150,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
throughN C B procedures.

Goods that are estimated to cost less thanUS $50,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured through Shoppingprocedures inaccordance with the procedures set forth inthe
OperationalManual. The request for quotations will be made inwriting to at least three
qualified suppliers.

Direct purchase. Procuring directly from the supplier without getting other quotations may
be allowed, uponprior clearance with the Bank, when there is only one supplier and/or the
amount i s small as prescribedinthe Operational Manual.

Works
IDA will finance the costs o frehabilitation of laboratories androads as well as maintenance
of buildings at the total estimated budget o fUS$2.2 million over a period o fthree years.
Contracts for rehabilitation works costing more thanUS$50,000 equivalent per contracts will
be awarded through the National Competitive procedures. Contracts o f works estimated to
cost US $50,000 or less equivalent per contract may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtaining inwriting from at least three
local contractors. The request for quotations will include description o f the works, including




                                                                                               62

plans and technical specifications as appropriate, requiredcompletion time, and a standard
form o f contract acceptable to IDA.

Force account. Communities may implement subprojects using its own resources
(skilledunskilled labor, materials, equipment), or hiringlabor andpurchasingmaterials
themselves and subcontracting the rest o fthe work to petty contractors by obtaining three
quotations.

Direct Contracting. Direct contracting o f one contractor without getting other quotations
may be allowed, uponprior clearance o fthe Community Sub-project Committee, when there
i s only one qualified contractor and/or the amount is small as prescribed inthe Operational
Manual.

Consultantservices
The total cost of IDA-financed consultant services andtechnical assistance, excluding costs
o f services o f trainers, external facilitators o fworkshops, or TA that may be needed for
community sub-project, i s estimated at about US$4.3 million equivalent for the entire
Project. Except as detailedbelow, consulting services will be selected through competition
among qualified short-listed firms based on Quality- and Cost-BasedSelection (QCBS).

Consultants for financial audits and other repetitive services estimated to cost less thanUS$
50,000 equivalent per contract will be selected through Least Cost Selection (LCS) method.

Consultants' services for training estimated to cost more than US$50,000 equivalent per
contract will procured through the Selection Based on Consultants' Qual@cations (CQ)
method.

Inexceptionalcaseswhen selection of consultants through competitive process is not
practicable, the borrower may, uponprior clearance with the Bank, hire consultants through
the single-source selection method stipulated inparas 3.8-3.1 1o f the Guidelines.

Consultants for services meeting the requirements of Section V o f the Consultant Guidelines
will be selected under the provisions for the Selection of Individual Consultants (IC) method.
Individual Consultants will be selected through comparison o fjob description requirements
against the qualifications of those expressing interest inthe assignment or those approached
direct1y .

Communities which may not be capable o f implementing their sub-projects may procure the
assistance o fNGOs and other consultants to provide technical assistance andhelp them
manage the community sub-projects. K S or DSUs will assist such communities inthe
selection o fNGOs following the procedure prescribedinparagraph 3.14 o f the Consultants'
Guidelines.

To ensure that priorityis given to the identification o f suitable and qualified national
consultants, short-list for contracts estimated under US$200,000 equivalent per contract may
be comprised entirely o f national consultants (inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraph



                                                                                            63

2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided that a sufficient number o fqualified firms (at
least three) are available. However, ifforeign firms have expressed interest, they will not be
excluded from consideration. The RFP as developed by the Bank will be used for requesting
proposals, and for selection and appointment o f consultants. Simplifiedcontracts will be
used for short-term assignments - simple missions o f standardnature (i.e,, those not
exceeding six months) carried out by individuals consultants or firms.

Bank Reviews
Procurement o f IDA-financed civil works contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent
or more and goods as well as consulting contracts o fUS$ 100,000 equivalent or more for
firms andUS$50,000 equivalent or more for individual consultants will be subject to prior
review by IDA. Post reviews o f contracts awarded below the above threshold levels will be
carried out selectively by IDA during supervisionmissions and/or by an independent
procurement auditor. Terms o fReference (TOR) for all consultancy contracts as well as all
single source selections, irrespective of the contract value, will be subject to prior review.

K S will prepare and submit to the Bank for its prior review an annual training program, as
part o fthe project annual work plan. The training will, inter alia, identify: (a) the training
envisaged; (b) the personnel to be trained; (c) the selection methods o f institutions or
individuals conducting such training; (d) the institutions which will conduct training, if
already selected; (e) the duration o fproposed training; and (0 the cost estimate o f the
training. Report by the trainee upon completion o f training would be mandatory.




                                                                                               64

                          TableA: ProjectCosts byProcurementArrangements
                                              (US$ million equivalent)

                                             ProcurementMethod'




15. Grantsto Farmers I
I andResearch            I        0.00       I
                                             I     0.00         I
                                                                I     9.94      I
                                                                                I       0.00        I             I




  11    Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include
        contingencies.
  21    Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f
        contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistanceservices, and incremental
        operating costs relatedto (i)managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local Government
        units.




                                                                                                                  65

                       Table A1: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                           (US$ million equivalent)

I                       I         I          I          I           I         I         I       I       I




       Category           QCBS       QBS        SFB         LCS         CQ       Other   N.B.F.  Cost1
 A. Firms                   1.9      0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00    0.00    1.9
                          (1$62)    (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.62)
                                                 0.00        1.2        0.00      1.80    0.00    3.0
                          (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)      (1.0)      (0.00)    (1.57)  (0.00)  (2.57)
                 Total      1.9      0.00        0.00        1.2        0.00      1.80    0.00    4.90
                          (1-62)    (0.00)      (0.00)      (1.0)      (0.00)    (1.57)  (0.00)  (4.19)


    1\ Including contingencies
         Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
               QBS =Quality-based Selection
               SFB = Selection under a FixedBudget
               LCS = Least-Cost Selection
               CQ = SelectionBased on Consultants' Qualifications
               Other = Selectionof individual consultants (per SectionV of Consultants
               Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
               N.B.F.=Not Bank-financed
               Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.



                        Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review1




                                                                                                      66

                          1    Contract Value     I    Procurement       1 Contracts Subject to     1
    Expenditure Category         Threshold               Method                Prior Review
  1.Works                         > 150,000            NCB >50,000               >200,000

I 2. Goods                1I     >=150,000                 ICB           I       >150,000           I
                              >50,000<200,000     1I       NCB

                                  =<50,000                 LCS
                                  =50,000                  CQ
 3.(a) Individual                                           IC                    >50,000
 consultants




        Totalvalue of contractssubject to prior 8.85 US$ million
                                       review:
        OverallProcurementRiskAssessment:       High
         Frequencyof procurementsupervision     One every six months
                            missionsproposed:   (includes special procurement supervision for post-
                                                reviewlaudits)




                                                                                                       67

Procurementassessmentandrisk mitigationstrategies.
Inlinewiththe proposedinstitutional arrangements for the implementation ofthe project,
procurement will be carried out directly by or under the guidance and supervision o fKARI.
Procurement decisions under the KARIproject component will be executed through the existing
institutional management structure o fKARI. Procurement o f inputs to Non-KARIcomponents
will be carried out at three levels bythe KARI/KAPP Secretariat (KS),KAPP District Offices
(DSU),andCommunity Sub-project ImplementationCommittees (CSIC). Theproposed
minimumnumber of people that wouldberequired for managingthe procurement finction at the
three levels, the minimumprocurement capacity, and their duties are summarized inthe Matrix
below.

KARI, as an institution, has a longexperience inBank procurementprocedures as ithas
completed implementation o ftwo Bank-funded projects (i.e. NARPIandNARP11) and is
currently implementing the Lake Victoria Environmental Management project (LVEMP) -
which is financed by a GEF grant administered by the Bank. KARItemporarily lost its only
experienced procurement officer as a result o f a Government directive issuedinMay 2003 on the
suspension o f all procurement officers inthe public sector. The suspension has been lifted and
some procurement officers were reinstated. KARI's procurement officer resumedduties in
March2004

As KARIis expected to carry out centralprocurement o fthe project, and supervise andgive
guidance to other institutions inprocurement procedures and decisions, .itis imperativethat
special consideration be given to buildingthe capacity o fprocurement personnel at KARIand
the KS.

The overall procurement risk assessment is rated"high". For this reason, KARIwas given
ultimate responsibility over procurement inall project o fthe components. To mitigate risk,
KAFUwill expandits procurement staff as needed andtrainthe KAPP Secretariat. The staffto
be employed at the KAPP Secretariat will include a procurement manager and a number of
procurement assistants to be based inthe districts.




                                                                                               68

         Institutional Arrangements and Responsibilitiesof ProcurementActivities
                                      At district leveland below

Institution No o fproposed               Timing o f      Duties
            procurement personnel and    appointment
            capacity
KARIKS      Preferably 2: one o f them   To supplement       Procurement o f goods and services for
            has to be well conversant    existing KARI       benefiting ministries, common
            with Bankprocurement         Staff as            requirements o fDSUs activities, and
            procedures                   needed, as          special inputsto Community Sub-projects
                                         project             (CSPs) that cannot be purchased locally
                                         workload            Selection o f consultants for (i)services
                                         increases           and assignments to be carried out under
                                                             benefiting ministries, (ii) or
                                                                                        services
                                                             assignments that are not specific to one
                                                             DSU or CSP
                                                             Support to DSUs and CSPCs including
                                                             facilitation o f procurement training
                                                             courses
                                                             Oversight o f compliance to agreed
                                                             procedures at all levels o f the project
                                                             Preparationo fprocurement plans for
                                                             central procurements
                                                             Submissiono fprocurement progress
                                                             reports to IMSC and WB
                                                             Productiono f txocurement manuals for
                                                             DSUs and CSPs
DSU         1per district -with          Before funds        Procurement o f all goods for DSU, where
            adequate knowledge inWB      are disbursedto     centralprocurement arrangement has no
            and GOK procurement          the districts.      comparative advantage
            rules                                            Goods for more than one CSP where
                                                             packaging is more economical than
                                                             individual purchases
                                                             Selectiono f service providers for DSU
                                                             activities and CSP commonactivities in
                                                             the district
                                                             Support to CSPCs, including training
                                                             Preparationand submission o f DSU
                                                             procurement plans to K S
                                                             Assistance and oversight o f procurement
                                                             implementation under CSPs inthe district
CSPC        1 who can through training   After               Assistance inacquiring required inputs to
            be able to assist CSPC in    establishment       CSP inaccordance with the procedures of
            procurement matters,         o f CSPC and        the Community sub-project
            (following agreed            identification      implementation manual
            procurement procedures)      o f Community       Preparationo fperiodical procurement
                                         sub-proj ects       progress reports
                                         (CSP)               Advising CSPC on inputs that can be
                                                             purchased locally and inputs that are not
                                                             available inthe local market




                                                                                                       69

                              Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
                     KENYA: KenyaAgriculturalProductivityProject(KAPP)

A: Introduction

This Annex details the economic and financial analysis undertaken for KAPP within Phase
One o f the APL. The aim of the analysis i s to assess the economic and financial soundness o fthe
APL.A two-pronged approachhasbeen adopted: (i)costhenefit analysis to evaluate the
                                                        a
soundness o f the investments whose associated future benefits could be reasonably estimated, in
this case, the KARIresearchprograminvestments; and(ii) efficiency analysis for the
                                                               an
institutional support investments whose future benefits cannot be reasonably quantified now.
Firstly, the analysis assesses the farm-level financial viability o fthe investment inresearch.
Secondly it assessesthe national level economic viability o f investing inresearch. Finally, within
the sustainability and equity considerations, it examines the impact o fthe investments on the
national fiscalbudget.

An exhaustive analysis was not attempted given the difficulty inquantifying all o fthe project's
benefits. The long-term objective o fthe KAPP is to contribute to the sustainable growth o f
Kenya's agricultural productivity andimprovement o fthe livelihoods o f its rural communities
through the development, acquisition and applicationo f improved andprofitable agricultural
technologies and productionpractices. The KAPP will support reform o f the Kenyan
agricultural system through reforms inpublic services andbetter coordination between public
andprivate stakeholders. The KAPP i s expected to generate two types o f benefits: institutional
benefits such as improved efficiency and effectiveness o fpublic services, and household level
benefits such as higherfarm incomes or enhanced food security.

To fully capture the impact of the project it would be necessary to analyze the KAPP program in
its entirety as it i s intendedto develop consensus around institutional reform inthe first phase
andmoves toward widespread implementationonly inthe second and thirdphases. However,
analysis of the larger program is complicated by the need to estimate outputs inthe second and
thirdphasesthat are dependent onthe reform process initiated inthe first. For this reason, the
bulko fthe economic andfinancial analysis is concentrated onthe onthe agricultural research
component financed inthe first phase o f the program. The analysis also includes a brief
discussion on the soundness of investments inthe project's other components (institutional
reform and pilot interventions inagricultural extension and farmer empowerment) but it should
be noted it most likely understates the benefits inthese areas.

Inundertakingthe costhenefit analysis, the assessmenthas focused on four representative
enterprises for the research program as follows:

    1. Maize researchto represent cereals because maize is the dominant food security crop in
         Kenya andit is also a source o f income for many farmers
    2. Potato researchbecause potato is the next dominant food security after maize, is a source
         of cash income for farmers and i s also the dominant research crop among roots andtubers




                                                                                                 70

    3. Mango to represent horticulture which i s an important element o fKARI's research
        program under KAPPproposals, i s a significant fruit eaten inmany rural and urban
        families andis the second most important horticulture export for Kenya
    4. Dairy cattle to represent livestock becauseo fthe crucial role o fmilk as a source o f
        animal proteinto Kenyans and it is an important element ingenerating regular cash flow
        for many families

B: FinancialAnalysis

The analysis was done over 20 years including the period it takes to develop and release the
research product andthe time taken by the farmedend users to adopt the technology to its
expected full impact (the crest) under farm (as opposed to researcwtrials) conditions. The rates
of adoptionwere adjusted based on field data to reflect each enterprise's uniqueness. For
example the rates of adoption o f improved potato varieties varied across various agro-ecological
zones as shown the figure below. Improvements incrop yields were taken as the overall
indicative benefit inthe case o fmaize, potato andmango research ;incremental amounts inmilk
output was taken as the overall indicativebenefit from dairy research.

Investment costs were taken as the cost of doing research, plus a proportionate allocation o f
KARIheadquarter overhead costs, tillthe product is releasedto the farmers. The cost/benefit
calculation does not include any replacement costs andthis is debatable. The reason why they
have not included is the argument that once a research product is released to the users, what
follows is extension andnot research. Whatever researchwork takes place thereafter, should be
attributed to the next (improved) product. On-farm operating costs have beenestimated using
current reported levels o f inputuse andexpenditures.

Technology adoption rates have been estimated usinginformation and experience from KARI,
agriculturalpractitioners, agro-economists and available publications. The Table 1below
summarizes the main assumptions for the individual enterprises andresults o f the analysis.




                                                                                               71

Table 1:Summaryof Assumptions andResults

                                               I Maize   I Potato      I ManPo      I Dairv Cattle




Results inTable 1demonstrates that althoughthe analysis has assumed conservative technology
adoption profiles for the different enterprises, the financial retums are attractive for all the
enterprises. This means that farmers would profitably adopt the new technologies while at the
same time enabling research to recover the technology development costs.

C:EconomicAnalysis

Evidence from ex-post analysis shows that investmentsinagricultural research and extension, in
both developed anddeveloping countries, can generate highreturns. The 2002 World
Development Report13indicates that the sum o fprivate and social retums on agricultural
research and extension inAfrica for the period 1953-1998has been around 34%. The success of
the Green Revolution in South Asia duringthe 1960sand 1970sclearly demonstrates the benefits
andretums o f agriculturaltechnology development anddissemination. Furthermore, increased
agricultural productivity arising from technology adoption has a large multiplier effect in
agricultural based economies such as Kenya. Nevertheless, the estimation o f retums to
investments inagricultural technology development and dissemination is inmost cases
constrained by lack of accurate information and complications inestimating the extemalities
arising from technology adoption.




'*IIPer
  I Per CBS Statistics, MinistryofAgriculture and technical publications
    Per Ministryo f Livestock
        KARIandmissionestimates
  I Per technicalpublications andmissionestimates
lo I Excludes200,000 cattle ofpurebreed
l1 1 Rangesbetween 15 - 25% depending on agro-ecological zone
l2 I A bagweighs average90 kgs.
l3 World Bank (2002): World Development Report 2002: Building Institutions for Markets. OxfordUniversity
press, New York.


                                                                                                         72

A comprehensive evaluationofeconomic benefits o fthe whole project cannot easily bedone for
several reasons. Benefits from three o f the project components focusing on extension and
research intuitional reforms as well the component dealing with farmedclient empowerment are
difficult to quantify inmonetaryterms. The investments inthese components are not well known
ex-ante, since most o fthe activities will be identifiedthrough a participatory process.
Technology improvements that will be developed through the support provided to KARI, their
rates of adoption by farmers, andthe productivity gains expected from their application cannot
also be accurately predictedas they will vary significantly across the wide ago-ecological zones
inthe country. Benefitsfrom improvedtechnologies couldalsobeinfluencedbyexternal factors
such as availability o f agricultural inputs and efficiency o f the marketing and distribution system.

As indicated above, a limitedeconomic analysis focusing on determining the benefits arising
from development and dissemination o ftechnologies on a number o f farm enterprises (maize,
potato, mangos anddairy) assessedto some detail. These enterprises were chosen to represent
the maincrop andlivestock activities undertaken bya majority o f smallholder farmers inKenya.

The economic value o f research and on-farm investments, as well as recurrent costs are derived
from financial cost estimates by excluding all taxes, duties and other forms o ftransfer payments.
Most agricultural inputs inKenya are zero-rated and hence they do not attract import duties but
are inmost cases subject to VAT at the point o f sale, at the current rate o f 16%. As indicated
above, it was not possible to account for the residual values o f investment. This is however not a
major factor given the 20 year periodconsidered inthe analysis. The prevailing wage rate is
adjusted by a factor o f 0.75 to arrive at the opportunity cost for labor at the farm level. The
import parity prices for maize, reconstitutedmilk, fertilizer and diesel are applied to arrive at
their respective economic prices.

The benefits o f the farm enterprises are expressed interms o fnet value added by the incremental
production or technology adoption arising from the project investment. The withoutproject
scenario i s equated to the situation where the farmers have not adoptedthe technological package
inquestion. For example, inthe caseo fmaize, the withoutproject situationisrepresentedbythe
production system using local (non-hybrid) maize varieties while the hybridmaize represent the
withproject scenario.

Table 2 summarizes the incremental costs and benefits as well as the estimated economic rate o f
return (ERR) for the enterprises considered. The analysis shows that research into food crop
technologies, be they genetic improvements or production technologies would yield an ERR o f
38% (maize), 33%(potato) and20% (mango) over a 20 year period. The ERR for dairy
technology was estimated at 28%. The total net present value (NPV) o f the considered food
crops and dairy amount to US$90.5million based on a 20 year cash flow and at 12% opportunity
cost of capital. Based on these results it is clear that the economic benefits from the project
would be similar to the usualbenefits expected from projects o f similar nature.

The emphasis on enhancing technology development and dissemination takenbythe project will
increase the likelihood o f the achieving and even surpassing these benefits. Although there is no
reliable and wide-spread data that can be used to quantify the impact o f extension inthe country,
the results so far achieved through the extension pilots initiated under NARPI1(through ATIRT)



                                                                                                    73

indicates major productivity and income benefits that can be derived from technology adoption.
Since its inception inJune 2000, ATIRI has supported 235 community-based organizations
(CBOs). Proposals involving some 310 agricultural technologies havebeenapproved and
funded, benefiting some 14,000 farmers directly andover 150,000 indirectly at a cost o f
approximately Ksh.50 million. The achievements o f the ATIRIhave been well-documented in
the NARPI1Beneficiary Assessment study and ATIRI extemal reviewI4.Achievements worth
mention are the improvements o f food security arising from improved yields. Insome o f the cites
maize yields were reported to have increased by over 60%, while yields o fbeans and green
grams increased by 32% and 1OO%, respectively. Apart from yield increase farmers covered by
the initiative were also able to diversify productioninto highvalue crops thereby increasing their
incomes while generating employment.

Table 2: Cost, Benefits and Economic indictors for the four enterprises.

   Year      rota1Incremental Cost            IncrementalBenefits                 Net IncrementalBenefits
                                    Maize   Mango Potato        Dairy     Total

                      (1)                                                  (2)                (2-1)


     1               242.9         1  0    1         1   0   1    0     I   o               -242.8
    2                245.8                                                                  -245.8
    3                247.3                                                                   -247.3
    4                251.1                                                                   -251.2
     5               247.6                                                                   -247.6
     6               253.3                                                                   423.2
    7                697.8                                                                    827.2
     8               889.1                                                                  1,23 1.1
    9               1,111.3                                                                 1,666.2
    10              1,333.6                                                                 2,019.8
    11              1,333.6                                                                 2,449.1
    12              1,333.6                                                                 2,624.6
    13              1,333.6                                                                 2,750.1
    14              1,333.6                                                                 2,875.6
    15              1,333.6                                                                 3,001.1
    16              1,333.6                                                                 3,126.6
    17              1,333.6                                                                 3,252.1
    18              1,333.6                                                                 3,377.6
    19              1,333.6                                                                 3,503.1
    20              1,333.6                                                                 3,503.1


    NPVat 12% (million KSh)
    NPVat 12% (million US$)
   E M      I
 I/C Ratio1                                   8.4    I  8.4   I  1.8    I

l4Beneficiary Assessment (BA) o f KARIdeveloped technologies (2003), and Drafi ATIRI external review report
(2004).


                                                                                                           74

 D:Efficiency and Sustainability ofInstitutionalReformand PilotingActivities

The cost effectiveness o fKAPP's institutional reform and piloting sub-components should be
evaluated against the benefits they are expected to generate and the financial soundness o fthe
proposed activities. The project's investments ininstitutional reform occur at the beginning
stages o f the reformprocess andtheir impact on improved service delivery, uptake o fprofitable
technologies andhigher farm income will depend on the direction and scale o f reforms adopted.
Nonetheless, institutional reform i s expected to have a significant impact on the efficiency and
effectiveness o f public services inagriculturalresearch and extension.

Public expenditure benefit, A review o f Kenya's agriculture sector performance andpublic
expenditure demonstrates the need for improving the effectiveness o fpublic expenditures.
KAPP's investmentsinextension and researchreform target one o fthe core functions o fthe
Ministry o f Agriculture andMinistry o f Livestock Development and is an area where improved
performance i s needed. The bulk o f MOA/MOLD expenditures are spent on recurrent costs, with
relatively little allocated to investments. Although MOA/MOLD increased the share o f
development expenditure significantly inthe past year, the recent separation o f the two into
separate ministries i s likely to result insome backsliding. Recurrent costs represent the largest
share o f the MONLDbudget, averagingnearly 84 percent o fMOA/LD expenditures inthe past
four years (Table 3). Salaries andwages, o fwhich nearly halfare for extension workers, are
among the biggest expenditures item inthe recurrentbudget, averagingnearly 47 percent o f the
total budget inrecent years. Any increase ineffectiveness o f salaried employees can be expected
to have a significant impact on the overall performance o f the ministries.

Table 3: MOAand MOLDexpenditure




1 Breakdown                                               I          I           I
               of recurrent expenditure
  ("! oftotal recurrent budge;)
  All salaries andwages                           60.7     54.6        53.8       54.4
  Agricultural and livestock extension salaries   29.0     26.9        27.5       27.9
  and wages
  Operations andmaintenance                       13.5     22.5        19.6       21.7
  Plant and equipment                             0.5      0.5         0.4        0.4
  Transfers and subsidies                         25.3     22.4        26.1       23.4
  A-I-A                                           2.9      6.3         5.9        5.6

                                                 I        I          I           I
  Expendituredatafor 1999-2002basedonactuals, 200212003 arevisedestimate
  Source: Public Expenditure Review, draft report



                                                                                                  75

Reforms inthe agriculture sector also have the potential to reduce the burden o f service
provision on the public sector. KAPP will support increased private sector participation in
extension services, which, ifsuccessful, may enable widespread expansion o f extension services
outside the public wage bill. Private providers will be paid with public funds, but this is
recognized as being more cost effective thanprovision o f similar services by civil servants. Cost
effectiveness and sustainability of pilot activities are also increased by an element o fcost sharing
element to many of the interventions.

Positive externalities. Inaddition to shaping the reform agenda, KAPPhas the potential to
improve govemance at the district level andbelow. The project's investments inpilot activities
will greatly increase the resources available at the district level and decentralize control over
their allocation to the district, divisional and community level. The funds available for pilot
extension and farmer empowerment activities comprise around 6 million K S hfor each o f the 20
districts. Kenya is currently undergoing a constitutional review and i s likely to decentralize
govemance to the lowest levels. Investments at the district level will buildcapacity o f district
officials to better manage resources and coordinate below the district level.

Fiscal impact. KAPP i s expected to have a positive fiscal impact on Government expenditures
through increased effectiveness and efficiency o fpublic services, particularly agricultural and
livestock extension andresearch. The test for sustainability o f the project is its ability to
generate incremental public revenues to meet its recurrent costs. Inthe short runthe project is
not expected to generate substantial public revenues but is likely to do so inthe longrunas
agriculturalproductivity increases and incomes rise. Inthe medium term the project, is not
expected to generate substantial fiscal obligations outside o f the KARIresearch sub-component.
The recurrent costs associated with investments ininstitutional reform and coordination are
expected to be absorbed into the general budget o fthe project's associated ministries as reforms
are mainstreamed.

Project investments inKARIare also intendedto improve the efficiency and impact o f research
services. Although KARIis heavily dependent on donor funds and Government transfers (around
46% o f overall funding is provided by donors), it is acknowledged inthe Medium Term
Expenditure Framework and Public Expenditures Review as having a core poverty reducing
function. KARIhas enjoyed relatively strong support within the Ministry o f Agriculture since it
was placedunder MOA control in 1999. Continued support is likely and its status as a
Government parastatal allows it some flexibility inmanaging expenses and generating revenue.




                                                                                                   76

                                Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues


                KENYA: KenyaAgriculturalProductivityProject(KAPP)

KAPP activities have beenjudged to likely have minimal to no adverse social and environmental
impacts. The Project i s classifiedas EA Category C (Environment) and S3 (Social) and
therefore, there are no Safeguard Policies that would be triggered bythe Project. Consequently,
the Project has been transferred from the Africa Region safeguard unit (ASPEN) to the Sector
Manager AFTS2 who is now responsible for: (i)     clearing and disclosing o f any safeguard
document, (ii)  ensuring that environment and social issues are appropriately addressed inthe
project, and (iii)ensuring that competent environment and social staff are included on the team.
The associated GEF component has been de-linked from KAPP-IDA andwould therefore be
processed as a separate project with its own safeguard policy requirements andprocessing.

While KAPP has no mandated assessment and disclosure requirements, as part o f an early good
practice effort to enhance project design, a SectoralEnvironmental and Social Assessment
(SESA) was conducted and submitted to the Bank andBorrower ina manner and content that has
been formally accepted. The SESA was prepared so as to provide information, analysis and
guidance to ensure andstrengthen environmental andsocial sustainability o fthe project. The SESA
sets out the framework for mainstreaming environmental and social considerations during KAPP
implementation, focusing on Phase I(Le. the first three years). It also summarizes considerations
that would need to be factored into the design ofPhases I1and I11to ensure the continuation o f
the mainstreamingprocess.

Entry pointsintoKAPPinstitutionalstructures

The SESA ensured insertion and wider consultation andparticipation o fkey environment and
social agencies into the design and implementation arrangements o fKAPP activities. KAPP's
sector-wide coordinating body would be a) the inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee (ICC)
andb) a Technical inter-Ministerial Committee (TIC) which wouldbe composedo fMinisters           .
andPermanent Secretaries from the 7 Ministries o fAgriculture, Livestock andFisheries
Development, CooperativeDevelopment,Water Resources Management and Development,
Environment,NaturalResourcesandWildlife, Lands and Settlement, and Local Government.

Project coordination is providedby a Steering Committee composed o fDirectors o f line
departmentshmplementingagencies andincludes the NationalEnvironmentalManagement
Authority (NEMA).Inorder to enhance project impact and sustainability, KAPPwould broaden
andfacilitate engagement byappropriate institutions with environmental andsocial entry points.
The most relevant institutions fall out o fthe analysis o f environmental and social stakeholder
institutions presented inthe SESA; the rationale for their involvement inKAPP is provided in
Table 1below. Table 2 below defines which of the stakeholder institutions would needto be
engaged with different KAPP institutions, and specifies the environmental and social expertise
and responsibilities for each o fthe KAPP institutions.




                                                                                                77

Table 1: Rationale for selection of national environmental and social stakeholder
             institutions

Institution                       Rationale
a    Ministryo fEnvironment,            principal agency assigned with responsibility for formulating
    NaturalResources and Wildlife       environmentalpolicy (inthe broad sense)
a   NationalEnvironmental            a  principal g o v e k e n t institution responsible for the implementation
     Management Agency                  o f all policies relating to the environment
                                     a  responsible for EIA
a    Kenya Wildlife Service          a  responsible for management o fwildlife issues inKenya, including
                                        inputto policy formulation, management ofparks andreserves and
                                        provisionof extension to localpopulations and authorities
a    Department o fForests           a  Responsible for key resource sector with strong linkages to
                                        agriculture
a   NationalAids Control Council     a  overall responsibility for HIV/AIDS control and prevention
a    NationalBiosafety Council       a  regulates biotechnology research, development and implementation
                                        -includingGMOs
a    NationalPest Control Board      a  regulates pesticide markets and use
a    MinistryofGender, Sports,       a  responsible for gender policy framework, promotion o f gender
     Culture and Social Services        issuesinlandownership, women's accessibility to markets and land
                                        use, etc
                                        social security and welfare, needs o f marginalized and
                                        disadvantaged groups (including AIDS orphans)
     Ministry of Cooperative         a  responsible for facilitating farmer access to profitable markets
     Development
     Department o f Trade            a  responsible for regulation and licensing o fmarkets, and promotion
                                        o ftrade liberalization
     Department o fNutrition         a  promotion o f humanhealth and well-being through improved
                                        nutrition

Work Program and Budget during KAPPPhase I

As anoutput o fthe SESA,KAPPwould pro-actively support consultative and local in-country
capacity buildingmeasures that aim to a) fbrther mainstream environment and social issues in
agriculture production, research and extension activities, andb) strengthen local andnational
capacities to address environmental and social requirements. The key activities to be supported
are identified inTable 3 below, and cover:

a   Preparation o f relevant environmental and social briefing papers to inform KAPP processes
    Environmental and social sustainability auditheview o f KAPP Phase I
a   A Strategic Environmental Assessment ofthe KAPP Ipolicyreformoutput
    Capacity building: awareness-raising, sensitizationand training
    Specific and selected technical analyses
a   Capacitybuilding(where needed) for stakeholder organizations (see Table 1) to participate
    effectively inKAPP processes




                                                                                                               78

Considerationsfor KAPPPhasesI1andI11

Duringthe third andlast year o fKAPPPhaseI,       preparationactivities for KAPP PhaseI1would
be initiated. Inorder that the lessons o f environmental and social mainstreaming inPhase Iare
documented and understood, an environmental and social sustainability auditheview would be
carried out. The results o fthe auditheview would be fed into PhaseI1designprocess, and
captured within a SESA ofKAPPPhase11.The scope o f work for the Phase I1SESA would
broadly follow the scope of KAPP ISESA, incorporatingany lessons from Phase I
implementation over the first two years that would sharpen Phase I1SESA's focus on key issues.

The SESA process would be repeated again inpreparation for KAPP Phase 111.




                                                                                              79


Table3: Scope andbudgetfor support to environmentalandsocial mainstreaming

Activity         Scope                                            outputs              Budget,!$
                                  - -          -
___
Baseline studies       analysis by agro-ecological zone o f       1.Baseline Study      80,000
                       environmenthocial issuesrelatedto          2. TORSfor further
                       agriculture, including policy issues       studies
                       (perverse incentives, etc);                3. Briefing papers
                       identification o f M e r studyneeds -to
                       informlearning pilots & community
                       discussions: e.g. lessons learned in,
                       resource conservation, effective
                       community mobilisation, etc;
                      preparation o fbriefing papers on key
                       issues for policy makers, and fora, as
                       required, to informtheir discussions.
SEA o f new            A strategic environmental assessment o f    1. SEA report        10,000
policy                 the outcome o f the KAPP policy reform
                       process: the new agricultural research and
                       extensionpolicy. The SEA will comply
                       with KenyanEIA Regulations (Regulation
                       42: see Section 1.2.2);
                       See Annex D o f the SESA for a summary
                       o f considerations to be taken into account
                       during preparationo fthe SEA.
Capacity building   0  sensitizatiodawareness-raising covering     1.Awareness-         55,000
                       environmental and social issues inrelation raising sessions/
                       to agriculture, for KS, KAPP Task Group     materials
                       and secretariat staffat national level, and 2. Induction
                       KAPP coordinator at district level;         sessions
                       awareness and training at selected
                       community levels;                           3. Focalpoint
                                                                   training sessions
                    0  inductioninto environmental and social
                       issues for all o f above (1 day);           4.
                                                                   training sessions
                       further training for national and district
                       level environmenthocial focal point -2
                       days at start, 2 days mid-term.
Furthertechnical    0  technical analysis o f specific             1.technical papers    40,000
analysis               environmental and social issues which       and
                       may be specific policy determinants, on     Recommendations
                       an as required basis;                       on appropriate
                       preparation o f W h e r briefing papers as  measures.
                       necessary, to informKAPP processesand
                       decision-making;
                       specific research onprimary issues.
Environmental          environmental and social sustainability     1.Environment and     15,000
and social             auditheview o f KAPP Phase Ito inform       social audit report
auditheview o f       KAPP I1design and implementation.
KAPP PhaseI
                                                                            TOTAL      $200,000




                                                                                                  81

                  Annex 11: Government Letter of Sectoral Policy




                                  REPUBLICOF KENYA
                                    MINLSTRY OF FINANCE

TelegraphicAddress: 22921                                              THE TREASURY
FINANCE NAIROBI
           -                                                           P.O. Box 30007
Telephone: 338111                                                            NAIROBI
When replyingpleasequote                                                         KENYA

Ref No. =/FA         62/189/012/1/(19)                                March 19,2004



Mr. JamesD. Wolfenson
President
The World Bank
1818Stmet NW
Washington DC20433
LEA


Dear



RE:    KENYAAGRICULTURALPRODUCRVHYPROJECTPHASE 1;
       LETTEROFSECTORALPOUCY

The Government of Kenya greatly appreciates the. World Bank's resumption of Budget
Support, which will go along way in facilitatingthe implementationof the Economic Recovery
Strategy for Wealth and Employment Creation (ERSWE) whose main objective is to
resuscitategrowth and reducepoverty.

Today, agriculture remains the most important sector of Kenya's economy as it contributes
26% of GDP and as much as 60% of the export earnings. Furthermore, close to 80% of the
population lives in the rural areas and derlve their livelihood largely from agriculture. It is
currently estimated that about 56% of Kenyans live below the poverty line, the majority of
whom reside in the rural areas. Among the poor households, subsistence farmers and
pastoralists account for over 50% of the poor households. The incidence and prevatence of
poverty is highest among women, whose vulnerability is heightened by their dependence on
subsistence farming. In addition, food insecurity in Kenya is still widespread and it is
estimated that about 50.6% of the population either lack access to adequate food or the
availablefood is of low nutritionalvalue and quality.

In order to find a lasting solution to the problem of food insecurity, it is imperative that we
work towards achieving sustainable growth of the agricultural sector, which in turn, will
contribute to economic recovery.         In this regard, the new Government`s development
strategy, as articulated in the recently released EconomicRecoveryStrategy for Wealth and
Employment ci-eation (ZUU3-2000?3(ERSWEC), is to restore and sustain economic growth,
generate 500,000 jobs per year and reduce poverty. The productive sectors of agriculture,
trade and industryand tourism will bethe prime moversinthe recovery program, In order to
meet the macroeconomic targets, the agricultural sector is expected to grow by 3.1% per
annum. Bringing agriculture back on a sustainable growth path is, therefore, identified as a
critical element towards a broad-based growth needed for poverty reduction, This is also in
line with the findings of the consultative Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PEP) process,
which identified agriculture and rural development sector as the core priority in poverty
reduction. Both strategies call for investing more resources in rural areas especially targeted
at smallholder farmers. These investments are required to sustain increased crop and
livestock production and to catalyze shifts towards higher-value crop and livestock farming
while unlocking the potential in the arid and semi-arid lands which have been comparatively
underdevelopeddespite accounting for 80% of the total land area in Kenya.

At the sectoral level, the Government has launched the Strategy for Revitaking Agriculture
(SRA), which highlights the need for a multi-sectoral approach to rural development. The
theme of improving agricultural sector productivity and competitiveness through enhanced
adoption of appropriatetechnologies and practices, is emphasized in the Strategy. The vision
of the Government as contained in the SRA, is to transform Kenya's agriculture into a
profitable, commercially-oriented and internationally and regionally competitive economic
activity.   This has to be achieved within a framework of improved agricultural productivity
and farm incomes while conserving the land resource base and the environment. The SR4
aims to achieve this vision by providing a policy and institutional environment that is
conducive to increasing agricultural productivity, promotinginvestments, encouraging private
sector involvementin agricultural enterprises and agribusiness.

Importantfactorsthat are necessaryto createthis environment include:

    0   Establishment of legal and regulatory framework that is fair and just to all farmers,
        producers, processors, and marketers of agriculturalproducts

       Availability of efficient agricultural advisory and extension services that are pluralistic,
        responsive to farmers' needs and dynamic enough to cope with the changing
        environment

    0  Availability of efficientagricultural research system that would be providingappropriate
       technologies, knowledgeand informationto sustain improved agricultural productivity,
        competitive, and cost efficientagricultural production system; and

        Setting up a working and a pluralistic agricultural inputs' system that is amenable to
       farmers, producers and agro-procesars.



                                                  2




                                                                                                     83

The new Govemment has committed itself to restoring growth in agriculture and the main
challenge will be the transition of farming enterprises from subsistence to commercial
productionand from lowto high levels of productivity. Institutionaland policy reforms have
to be undertakento transform subsistencefarmingto market-based produdionsystems,

This transformation is faced with dauntingchallenges key among them being:

            Land tenure and degGdafion: 80% of Kenya's small farms are below 2 ha and
            pressureon existing land is increasing

            Low t&#o/ogy adoption.'low utlllzatlonof Improvedtechnologyand limitedaccess
            to extension or research services are linked to a lack of responsivenessto farmer
            needsand prioritieson the partof Governmentservice providers

            Poormarketacces poorlydeveloped internal and external market structures limit
            farmer access to physical and financial inputs such as improved seeds, improved
            livestock breeds, quality fertilizer, and credit services while underdeveloped
            extemal marketlinkages constrain output marketing;

            Underdevelopedinfrrastrucre: poor rural infrastructure such as electricity and
            roads hinder the development of agro-industries and make agricultural production
            costly; and

            Ima5jng impor&nce of social isues: high incidence of HIV/AIDS, Malaria and
            waterbornedlseases cause loss in labour productivity and diversionof resourcesfor
            investmentand continuous incidenceand prevalenceof povertyamong women and
            other vulnerable groups which constitutes the bulkof labourforce for the sector,

StrategicActions

The vision of the Govemment is to transform Kenya's agricultural sector into a profitable
economic activity capable of attracting private investmentand providing gainful employment
for the Kenyan people. This transformation calls for fundamental policy change and
Instltutlonal, legal and regulatoryreformsso that individual farmers feel encouraged to shift
from subsistence productionto marketoriented productionand adopt greater use of modern
farming practices while increasing integration of agriculture with other sectors of the
economy,

In order to facilitate the needed transformationof the agriculturalsector, the following five
criticalareas have been identifiedas necessaryin modernizing the sector:

        (i) Reform of the legal and regulatory frameworks governing agricultural
               operations

        (ii)   Promotion of researchand technology development



                                                3




                                                                                              84

        (iii)  Reform of the extension service system to create a more effective linkage
               betweenresearch, extension and the farmers as the ultimate beneficiaries,

        (iv)   Establishmentand development of a market-basedagriculturalcredit and inputs
               system.

        (v)    Promotion of domestic processing of agricultural produce in order to provide
               increased oppofiunities for value adding, employment creation and foreign
               exchangeearnings,

One of the elements identified in the SRA as vital to increasing agricultural productivity will
require the development and applicationof modern crop and livestock technologies in order
to increasethe value added per unit of land and labour,This will requirerevitalizationof both
agricultural extension and agricultural research services. Making both agricultural extension
and research demand-driven, pluralistic and inclusive will be the cardinal pillars in the
modernization of agriculture.      Farmers and other key intermediaries also need to be
empoweredfor them to set the pace in demanding and applyingthese modern technologies,
This challenge can only be met through a cost-effective system that generates and
disseminates technologies and practices that meet the needs of farmers backed by a
sustainable institutional mechanism. The Kenya Agricultural Produaiv-tyProject (KAPP) is
designedto assist the Governmentto addressthese challenges.

Kenya ha5 a long history of agricultural research and well-developed agrkultural research
infrastructure that covers all ecological zones and caters for crops, livestock, fisheries, and
related fields. There are a number of agencies engaged in agricultural research, including
publicly-funded institutions, such as the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (WRI), the
Kenya Marine and Rsheries Research Institute (KEMFRT), the Kenya Forestry Research
Institute (KEFRI) and the universities; and commdity-funded institutionssuch as the Coffee
Research.Foundation (CRF), theThe Research Foundation (TRF), and the Kenya Sugar
                                    Tea
Research Foundation (KESREF).            research outputs from these institutions are not well
coordinated becausethey undertakeagricultural research on diverse activities. This situation
and lack of prioritization of research activities, poses the risk of duplication and sub-optimal
utilization of available limited resources. Furthermore, the impact of research findings and
technologicalbreakthroughson agricultural productivity has been limited because of lack of a
comprehensive approach for disseminating findings arising from poor research-extension-
farmer linkages.

Considerable work has been done over the last 15 years through the National Agricultural
Research Programme (NARP), with support from the Government and several donors
including the World Bank However, research being a long-term and continuous process,
more needsto be doneto acquire contemporaryknowledgeand adapt itfor the several agro-
ecological systems in the country. The consolidation of the gains achieved by KARI during
the first and second phase of NARP would enable the lead national agricultural research
institutionto play a catalytic and driving role inthis challengeand would as well maximizethe
potential of the existing assets and investment. With regard to the research agenda, more
priority will be given to applied research and problemsof small-scale holders, most of whom


                                                 4




                                                                                                 85

are women. The diversification in Arid and Semi-Arid Lands (MAL), integrated natural
remurces management and the development of foreshy products will be emphasized in
addition to encouraging partnershipsand collaboration. The KAPP is the main instrumentto
support the Govemment to achieve the desired technological advances and institutional
reformsthat will consolidate these gains. Inthis regard, the Government intends to develop
and adopta comprehensive NationalAgricultural ResearchSystem byJune 2007.

Efficientand effective agriculturalextension, which is a key objective of the SRA, is perhaps
the most important factor for increasing agricultural productivity. The Government remains
the largest provider of extension services and technology delivery due to irs large staff
compliment. However, the Government has not been able to use this asset efficiently to
provideadequateand quality servicesto farmers. As a result, a large number of CivilSociety
Institutions, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs),         Community-Based Organizations
(CBOs) and religious groups have come in to fill the gap by providing extension services at
the farmer levelm

The provision of extension services will, therefore, need to be strengthened using well-
coordinated, decentralizedand multi-disciplinary approaches that respond to user demands.
Public extension will play a facilitative and linkage role among all stakeholders( i.e. farmers,
pastoralists, fishermen, researchers, inputsuppliers and service providers). This will requirea
change of role so that the publicextension service becomes a catalysing agent for others to
carry out the bulk of the work. The Govemment is, therefore, committed to reforming the
system, through development and of a National Extension Policy, and to carry out the
requisite institutional reforms in order to put in place a new extension framework by June
2007.

The knowledge base and organizational capacity of Kenyan farmers, which is vital for
agriculturaldevelopment, has been seriously eroded over the last two decades. While Kenya
has many organizations representing farmers at various levels, none has a comprehensive
coverage and capacity to reachthe large majorityof small-scale farmers. Over the years, the
Government has encouraged and promotedthe formation of producer organizations such as
cooperatives and farmer groups but they have been plagued by mismanagement, corruption
and low human and organizationalcapacity. mere is also high demand for education as well
as an extended infrastructure for farmers and extension staff training. The Government is
committed to empowering farmers and farmers' organizations so that they can play their
rightful role in demanding for services and utilizing these services appropriately. This
empowerment will includerevival of farmer training colleges as interactionpointsfor farmers,
extensionas well as researchservice providers. The capacity of nationalfarmer organizations,
CBOs and NGOs involved in agricultural services will be enhanced through direct support,
training and farmer to farmer interactions, with W P supporting the Governmentto achieve
its objectivesof empoweringfarmers andfarmer organizations.

In order to achieve the objectives set out in the strategy, it will be important to have an
effective implementation, monitoring and evaluation framework. An appropriate institutional
frameworkthat utilizesexistingdepartmentsand institutionsto implementactions specifiedin
the strategy and which facilitatesthe active participationof the privatesector, the civil society

                                                5




                                                                                                  86

and communities, is beingdeveloped. At the national level, there will be the Annual National
Forum of the slakeholders in the sector, organized by the lead ministries. This will ensure
politicalwill and to give the strategyvisibility and provide a platformfor reviewing progress in
the implementationof the strategy and the extent to which its objectives are being achieved,
An Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee will provide the linkage between national and
local level implementationof the strategy, and technical support and coordination between
Ministries.

Conclusion
The implementation of the Kenya Agricultural Productivity Project is a vital element of a
broader framework for the Govemment to deliver economic growth, poverty reduction and
food security. The Govemment believes that this project will play an important role in
facilitatingthe implementation of some priority reform actions contained in the new Strategy
for Revitalizing Agriculture.

Itwill in particularfacilitatethefollowing:

        Execution of critically needed capacity bulldlng In agricultural policy, legal and
        institutionalreforms
        Support generation of new technologies and knowledge base that is required for the
        currentand future agricultureneeds
        Development of a new way of delivering agricultural advisory and extension services
       that Iscost effectiveand efficient, and
        Buildthe capacity of farmers engage in farmingas a viable economic activity,

The GOve"!nt       is committed to working with the World Bank in ensuring that the project
will be implemented successfullyand meet all itsdevelopment objectives,

Yours




MINISTER FOR FINANCE


Mr. MakhtarDiop
Country Director
World Bank, Kenya Office
HillPlaza, Upper Hill Road
Nairobi



                                                 6




                                                                                                 87

                         Annex 12: ProjectPreparationandSupervision
                  KENYA: KenyaAgriculturalProductivityProject(KAPP)

                                          Planned                          Actual
                                          ~~

PCNreview                                                                  10117/03
InitialPID to PIC                                                          12/09/03
InitialISDS to PIC                                                         01/06/04
Appraisal                                 03101/04                         03/01/2004
Negotiations                              03/24/04                         03/24/2004
BoardRVP approval                         06/17/2004
Planned date o f effectiveness            09115/04
Planned date o f mid-term review           12115/05
Plannedclosing date                       06131/07

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the proiect:
MinistryofAgriculture
Ministry o f Livestock and Fisheries Development
KenyaAgricultural ResearchInstitute

Bankstaff andconsultantswho worked onthe proiect included:

Name                             Title                                  Unit
Moctar Toure                     Lead Specialist, agricultural services AFTS2
Andrew Karanja                   Agricultural Economist                 AFTS2
Christine Comelius               LeadOperation Officer                  AFTS2
TuriFileccia                     Senior Agriculturalist                 FA0
FredBitanihirwe                  Project Analyst                        FA0
MichaelFoster                    Senior Agriculturist                   SasakawaGlobal 2000
GemKodhek                        Agricultural Economist                 Tegemeo Institute
Dahir Warsame                    Procurement Specialist                 AFTPC
Enos Esikuri                     Environment Specialist                 ENV
Moses Wasike                     Financial Management Specialist        AFTFM
Tesfaalem Gebreiyesus            Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
HyacinthBrown                    Senior Finance Officer                 LOAG2
HishamAbdo Kahin                 Legal Counsel, Consultant              LEGAF
JohnBoyle                        Environment Safeguards Specialist      AFTS1
Roxanne Hakim                    Social Safeguards Specialist           AFTS2
Melissa Brown                    Junior ProfessionalAssociate           AFTS2
Sandra Jo Bulls                  Team Assistant                         AFTS2
Lucie Muchekehu                  Team Assistant                         AFMKE

Bankfunds expendedto dateonproiect preparation:
Bankresources: 86,000
FAO: 61,000
Total: 147,000
EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
Remaining costs to approval: 50,000
Estimated annual supervision cost: 90,000



                                                                                              88

                         Annex 13: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                KENYA: KenyaAgriculturalProductivityProject(KAPP)

BankDocuments

   1. Project Concept Note
   2. Project Information Data Sheet (PCN stage)
   3. IntegratedSafeguards Data Sheet (PCN stage)
   4. Minutes o f the PCNReview Meeting
   5. Project Appraisal Document
   6. Project Information Data Sheet (PAD stage)
   7. Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (PAD stage)
   8. Terms of Reference for the Social Assessment, and the External Evaluation o fthe ATIRI
       pilot program
   9. Letter from the Government o fKenya requesting support for KAPPpreparation and
       funding
   10.PPFrequest package

Project Studies andReports

   1. DetailedProject Descriptiono fKARIComponent
   2. Monitoringand EvaluationReport
   3. Draft Project Implementation Manual
   4. Sector Environmental and Social Assessment (SESA)

General Documents

    1. KARIThirdMediumTermPlan
   2. Strategy for Revitalizing Agriculture (SRA)




                                                                                          89

                              Annex 14: Statementof LoansandCredits
                    KENYA: KenyaAgriculturalProductivityProject(KAPP)

                                                                                             Difference
                                                                                          betweenexpected
                                                                                             and actual
                                          Original Amount inUS$ Millions                   disbursements

Project FY   Purpose                      IBRD     IDA      SF     GEF    Cancel. Undisb. Orig.     Frm.
ID                                                                                                  Rev'd
PO78209 2004 Development Learning          0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00    2.86    0.00      0.00
             Center- LIL
PO78058 2003 KenyaArid Lands I1            0.00    60.00    0.00     0.00  0.00   56.99   -1.72      0.00
PO82378 2003 FreePrimary Educ. Support     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00   22.83    1.80      0.00
PO66490 2002 PUB.SEC.MGMT.TA               0.00    15.00    0.00     0.00  0.00    9.81   10.18      0.00
PO69501 2001 Kenya Economic & Public       0.00    150.00   0.00     0.00  0.00   107.93  97.62     52.99
             Sector Reform
PO66486 2001 Decentr. Reprod. Health &     0.00    50.00    0.00     0.00  0.00   38.70   20.50       4.18
             HIV/AIDS
PO70920 2001 HIV/AIDS DisasterResp.        0.00    50.00    0.00     0.00  0.00   29.18   10.23       0.00
             (Umbrella)
PO70718 2001 Regional Trade Fac. Proj. -   0.00    25.00    0.00     0.00  0.00   20.07    8.75       0.00
             Kenya
PO01354 1997 NARP I1                       0.00    39.70    0.00     0.00  0.00    0.84    0.88       0.00
PO01344 1997 KEENERGY SECTOR               0.00    125.00   0.00     0.00  0.00    36.71  45.28       0.00
             REFORM
PO34180 1997 Early Childhood Dev.          0.00    27.80    0.00     0.00  0.00    9.61    11.11      9.92
PO46871 1997 LAKE VICTORIA ENV.            0.00     9.80    0.00     9.80  0.00     6.07   6.45       0.00
PO35691 1996 KENYA    - NAIROBI            0.00    50.00    0.00     0.00  0.00     6.16   10.30      8.75
             MOMBASA ROAD
PO01319 1996 URBANTRANSPORT                0.00    115.00   0.00     0.00  0.00    24.45  35.28       0.00
                                   Total:  0.00             0.00     9.80  0.00   372.21             75.84
                                                  717.30                                  256.66




                                                                                                   90

                                  KENYA
                          STATEMENT OF IFC's
                         Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                          InMillionsofUS Dollars


                                      Committed                     Disbursed
                                     IFC                           IFC
FYApproval    Company       Loan    Equity  Quasi   Partic. Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic.
2000          AEF AAA       0.55      0.00    0.00   0.00     0.55  0.00   0.00   0.00
              Growers
1998          AEF AAR       0.00      0.50    0.00   0.00     0.00  0.50   0.00   0.00
              Clinic
1997          AEF Ceres     0.93      0.00    0.00   0.00     0.93  0.00   0.00   0.00
1997          AEF Deras     1.oo      0.00    0.00   0.00     1.00  0.00   0.00   0.00
              Ltd.
1996          AEF           0.28      0.12    0.00   0.00     0.28  0.12   0.00   0.00
              Equitea
1992          AEF Future 0.13         0.00    0.00   0.00     0.13  0.00   0.00   0.00
              Hotel
2000          AEF           2.50      0.00    0.00   0.00     2.50  0.00   0.00    0.00
              Lesiolo
1998          AEF           0.32      0.00    0.00   0.00     0.32  0.00    0.00   0.00
              Locland
2000          AEF           1.27      0.00    0.00   0.00     1.27  0.00    0.00   0.00
              Magana
1997          AEF           0.23      0.00    0.00   0.00     0.23  0.00    0.00   0.00
              Makini
1997          AEF           0.25      0.00    0.00   0.00     0.25  0.00    0.00   0.00
              Redhill Flrs
1999          AEF           0.06      0.00    0.00   0.00     0.06  0.00    0.00   0.00
              Transenergy
1999          ANSPAR        2.00      0.67    0.00   0.00     2.00  0.67    0.00   0.00
1980183198    DBK           3.00      0.00    0.00   0.00     3.00  0.00    0.00   0.00
1982          Diamond       0.00      0.80    0.00   0.00     0.00  0.80    0.00   0.00
              Trust
1998          GBHL          3.30      0.00     3.00   0.00    3.30  0.00    3.00   0.00
2001          Gapco         15.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   10.00  0.00    0.00   0.00
              Kenya
              IPS(K)-       0.00      0.3 1    0.00   0.00    0.00  0.31    0.00   0.00
0             Allpack
0             IPS(K)-       0.00      0.06     0.00   0.00    0.00  0.06    0.00   0.00
              Frigoken
0             IPS(K)-       0.00      0.11     0.00   0.00    0.00  0.11    0.00   0.00
              PremFood
1994          IntlHotels-   4.16      0.00     0.00   0.00    4.16  0.00    0.00   0.00



                                                                                 91

                                 Ken
1996199                          K-Rep          0.00   0.43   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.12    0.00 0.00
                                 Bank
2003                             Kenair         15.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
1983191                          LIK            0.00   0.03   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.03    0.00  0.00
2000                             Mabati         5.50   0.00   4.50    0.00    5.50  0.00    4.50  0.00
19701'74177179181188189194196199 Panafrican     0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00  0.00
1972                             TPS            0.00   0.04   0.00    0.00  ' 0.00  0.04    0.00  0.00
                                 (Kenya)
                                 Tsavo          0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00  0.00
0100                             Power
                                       Total           3.07   7.50    0.00   35.48  2.76    7.50  0.00
                                    portfilio:  55.48



                                                          Approvals PendingCommitment
                 FY           Company                   Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic.
                 Approval
                 2002         Eberege Tea              0.00       0.00     0.00    0.00
                 2002         Itumbe Tea               0.00       0.00     0.00    0.00
                 2003         Kenair                   0.00       0.00     0.00    0.00
                                          Total pending  0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
                                           commitment:




                                                                                                 92

                                                Annex 15: Countryat a Glance
                            KENYA: KenyaAgriculturalProductivityProject(KAPP)


                                                               Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan    Low-
                                                      Kenya   Africa  income
2002
Population, mid-year(millions)                          313      688     2,495                   Lifeexpectancy
                                                                                 I
GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                        360      450      430
GNI(Atlas method, US$billions)                                                                         T
                                                         113     306     1072

Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population (%)                                           2.3      2.4       19
Laborforce (%)                                           2.9      2.5      2.3       GNI                                Gross
                                                                                     per                               primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                             capita                          nrollment
Poverty (%of populationbelownationalpoverty/he)
Urban population(%oFtotalpopuiation)                     35        33       30
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                           46        46      59                          1
infant mortaiity(per 1OOOlivebirths)                     80       0 6       81
Childmalnutrition (%ofchildren under5)                   22                               Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwatersource (%ofpopulation)         57        58       76
llliteracy(%ofpopulationage a+)                           B        37       37
Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-age population)      94        86       95             --Kenya
   Male                                                  95        92      a3
   Female                                                                                         Low-incomegroup
                                                         93        80       a7

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1982    1992     2001    2002         Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ biilions)                               6.4     8.0      114      P.1
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                    8.2     0.7      P.8      16.8
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP               25.0    26.9     26.0     25.5                       Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP                       14.5    0.7      4.2      8.7
Gross national savingslGDP                       110     9.7      9.6      0.1                          T
Currentaccount balancelGDP                      -4.7    -2.3     -2.8
InterestpaymentslGDP                              13     2.5      0.7      0.5
Total debt/GDP                                   0.0    86.2     49.5      511
Total debtservicelexports                        #.5     311      0.9      9.8
Present value of debWGDP                                         38.7
Present value of debtlexports                                   146.6                              Indebtedness
                                    1982-92 1992-02    2001    2002 2002.08
(average annualgrowlh)
GDP                                      4.4     2.1      11       18      3.5              -Kenya

GDP percapita                            10     -0.4     -10      -0.2      18                     Lowincomegroup
                                                                                               ~




               ~~




STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                               1982    1992     2001    2002       1:Growth of investment and GDP (%)          I
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                     33.4    26.6      s9.0     8.1       n T
Industry                                         8.9     18.9     18.2     8.3
  Manufacturing                                  P.2     111      P.5      P.7
Services                                        46.7    54.5     82.9     62.8

Private consumption                             67.1    70.2     79.0      811       -5

Generalgovernment consumption                    8.4     B.1      16.8     0.2
Imports of goods and services                   28.7    26.9     34.6      316

                                            1982-92 1992.02     2o01    2o02
(average annualgrowlh)                                                          -Growth of exports and imports          ( O h )

Agriculture                                      2.7      16       12       10       20
Industry                                         4.3      18      0.7       14
  Manufacturing                                                                      m
                                                 5.1      18      0.8      3.5
Services                                         4.9     2.9       13      3.6
Private consumption                              5.1     2.2      -4.4     0.0  -
Generalgovernment consumption                    3.6     8.6      4.3      6.2   -20
Gross domestic investment                         1.5    4.3       2.3     3.8
Imports of goods andservices                     5.7     5.5      -12      2.9             -Exports         -1rrports
                                                                                                                              I




                                                                                                                                   93

                                                                                                            Kenya

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1982   1992    2001   2002      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(%change)                                                               2oT                                         I
Consumer prices                                  27.3     3.9     5.0
Implicit GDP deflator                      117    8.5     113     4.9

Government finance
                                                                       I
(%of GDP,includes current grants)
Current revenue                            25.1  27.5    22.5   22.4            97    98       99    00    01
Current budget balance                     -t5     13      15     2.4
Overallsurplus/deficit                    -13.2   -3.3   -0.9   -0.9             --GDPdeflator       -CPI

                                                                     ' " W T I
TRADE
                                         1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                           Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                       694    1013   1732    $742
 Fuel                                     223      69     115     131
 Coffee                                   227      P6      66     97
 Manufactures                              137     144   274      313
Total imports (cif)                       1,415  1,866  3.182   3,137
 Food                                       63     n6    290     300
 Fueland energy                            523     4 P    613    809                                                 I
 Capital goods                             250     411   756     603

Export price index(S95=WO)                  77     76      74     74           96   97    98     B9   00   01    02

Import price index(SSSWO)                   1P      91    130     134            m Exports         Inports
Terms of trade (S95=WO)                     69     64      74      71

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                           Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exports of goods and services             1,715  2,149  2.966   3,001
Imports of goods and services            2,030   2,252  3,939  3,650
Resourcebalance                           -315      -3   -973   -846

Net income                               -254    -355     -60     -70
Net current transfers                       63     66     761    576

Current account balance                  -305    -180    -318

Financingitems (net)                       139    255    509
Changesinnet reserves                      '67    -75     -B1    256

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)     248      182  1,097   1,84
Conversion rate (DEC,ioca//US$)            13.9  32.2    76.6   76.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                           Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed        641  6,898   5,644  6,207
  iBRD                                       0    656      24      13                       A: W
  IDA                                        0    1411  2263   2,447    I          G:883

Total debt service                        256     670     4 8    299
  IBRD                                        1    n g     26      13
  IDA                                        0      '6     51      60                                       B 2,447

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                          143    376    252
  Official creditors                       -15     155     62       1
  Privatecreditors                        -136     20    -133     -18
  Foreign direct investment                 13       6      5
  Portfolio equity                           0       0     0                                     D: 526
World Bank program
  Commitments                                0     176     93       2     -
  Disbursements                              0     92     1'6      66    A IBRD                          E- Bilaterd
                                                                         8-IDA     D-Othermltilateral    F-Rivats
  Principalrepayments                        0     134     56      54    C-IMF                           G- Short-ten




                                                                                                                        94

MAP SECTION


