Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2998 AR
(Electric Power Sector Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 18, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2998 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 18, 1988, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)  by an Agreement (the Project Agreement) of even date herewith, between the 
Bank and Entidad Binacional Yacyreta, the latter has agreed to  undertake the 
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(b)  "EBY" means Entidad Binacional Yacyreta;
(c)  "AyE" means Agua y Energia Electrica S.E.;
(d)  "SEGBA" means Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires S.A.;
(e)  "HIDRONOR" means Hidroelectrica Norpatagonica S.A.;
(f)  "BCRA" means Banco Central de la Republica Argentina;
(g)  "Austral" means the currency of the Borrower;
(h)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and EBY pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as  the same may 
be amended from time to time;
(i)  "Yacyreta Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement, dated November 6,  
1979, between the Bank and the Borrower, as amended;
(j)  "Loan 1761 AR" means the Loan, as so defined under the Yacyreta Loan 
Agreement;
(k)  "Sector Expansion Plan" means all the projects resulting from the planning 
carried out by the Borrower through SE (as hereinafter defined) and updated from time 
to time, concerning on-going and future electric power  generation and transmission 
facilities in Argentina, within SIN, as hereinafter defined;
(l)  "SE" means Secretaria de Energia, the Borrower's Secretariat of Energy;
(m)  "CNEA" means Comision Nacional de Energia Atomica;
(n)  "DEBA" means Direccion de Energia de la Provincia de Buenos Aires, the 
energy utility of the Province of Buenos Aires;
(o)  "National Utilities" means SEGBA, AyE and HIDRONOR;
(p)  "Yacyreta Project" means the Project, as so defined in the Preamble to the 
Yacyreta Loan Agreement;
(q)  "Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Bank and EBY, as such Agreement may be amended from time to time;
(r)  "Second Owners' Agreement" means the Second Owners Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Borrower and Paraguay (as hereinafter defined) in  which such 
parties have agreed to undertake certain obligations with regard to  the execution and 
operation of the facilities of EBY, as such Agreement may be amended from time to 
time; this Second Owners Agreement shall supplement the Owners Agreement entered into 
between the Borrower and Paraguay on November 6, 1979 (the First Owners Agreement);
(s)  "IDB" means the Inter-American Development Bank;
(t)  the "IDB Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement to be executed between 
EBY and IDB on or about the date of this Loan Agreement pursuant to which IDB shall 
grant a loan in an amount equivalent to approximately $250  million to provide 
financing for Part A.1 of the Project parallel with the financing provided by the 
Loan;
(u)  "Paraguay" means the Republic of Paraguay;
(v)  "Energy and Electrical Funds" means the proceeds of the surcharge on energy 
Page  3
rates and prices which are channelled to the Borrower's Fondo  Chocon-Cerros 
Colorados-Alicopa Fund (FCCC), Fondo Nacional de Grandes Obras Electricas (FNGOE), 
Fondo Nacional de la Energia Electrica (FNEE), Fondo Especial para el Desarrollo 
Electrico del Interior (FEDEI), and Fondo Nacional de Energia (FNE), established under 
Law No. 17,574, dated December 21, 1967, Law No. 19,287, dated October 5, 1971, Law 
No. 15,336, dated September 15, 1960, Law No. 17597, dated December 28, 1967, and Law 
No. 16656, dated  December 30, 1964, respectively, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement;
(w)  "Treaty" means the Treaty, dated December 3, 1973, between the Borrower and 
Paraguay in respect of the carrying out and operation of Yacyreta Project;
(x)  "Nota Reversal" means any of the diplomatic notes supplementary to the 
Treaty and exchanged by the Borrower and Paraguay;
(y)  "Protocolo" means any of the Protocolos supplementary to the Treaty and 
executed by the Borrower and Paraguay; and
(z)  "SIN" means Sistema Interconectado Nacional, the Borrower's National 
Interconnected System.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan  Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to two hundred fifty two million dollars ($252,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan  Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A.1 and B of the Project, 
open and maintain in dollars, a special account in BCRA or in another  bank acceptable 
to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
On each of the semiannual interest payment dates specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement and in Section 2.06 of the Yacyreta Loan Agreement, the  Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and other charges on the Loan and on 
Loan 1761 AR accrued and payable on or before the date set forth, and up to the amount 
allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such  Schedule may be amended from time 
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum  for each 
Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)  For purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
Page  4
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed 
as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 
15, and November 15, in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Loan Agreement, 
shall carry out Parts A.4 and B of the Project, and shall cause AyE and HIDRONOR to 
carry out Part A.2 of the Project, and AyE and SEGBA
to carry out Part A.3 of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in  
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and electric power industry 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the aforesaid Parts of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall on-lend to EBY the portion of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated to Categories (1), (2), (4) and (5) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement and required for Part A.1 of the 
Project, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
EBY, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
which shall include financial terms identical, mutatis mutandis, to those applicable 
to the Loan under this Loan Agreement.
(b)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the parties to this  Agreement and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank  shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works or consultants' services, as the case may be, required for the  Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed, in respect of 
Part A.1 of the Project, by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, 
and, in respect of Part B of the Project, by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall through SE: (a) not later than March 31, 1989 
complete, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, a diagnostic   study on the 
organization and operational efficiency of the Borrower's Electric Power Sector and 
the National Utilities;
(b)  promptly after its completion furnish to the Bank a copy of such study for 
comment;
(c)  prepare programs or plans of action taking into account the recommendations 
of such study and the Bank's comments thereon to implement such programs or plans, and 
revise such programs or plans from time to time by  agreement between the Borrower and 
the Bank; and
(d)  implement such programs or plans.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than April 30, 1989 and  by each 
April 30 thereafter complete, in consultation with the Bank and using methodologies 
and assumptions mutually agreed upon between the Borrower and Bank: (i) an update of 
the Sector Expansion Plan; and (ii) an update of the financing schemes for major 
projects included in the Sector Expansion Plan
to ensure, inter alia, that commissioning dates required thereby are feasible; and 
(b)  promptly after the completion of each such update referred to above the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a copy thereof for comment.
Page  5
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall implement the results of the tariff study being 
carried out under Section 4.07 of the Yacyreta Loan Agreement in a  manner and 
according to a timetable, both satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all administrative and other action  
required on the part of itself and its federal agencies to pay, and to cause  all its 
provincial and municipal agencies and all its autonomous public sector agencies either 
to pay or settle, not later than December 1, 1989, the outstanding overdue balances on 
their accounts to SEGBA, AyE and HIDRONOR and
thereafter always promptly pay and cause such agencies promptly to pay the balances 
due on such accounts.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than May 31, 1989, provide to the 
Bank a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for completing the financing of the  Yacyreta 
Project, and such plan shall be reviewed annually by the Borrower and the Bank and, if 
required, may be revised and updated on terms satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause CNEA to charge a bulk tariff to  
Centro Unificado de Carga, the Central Dispatch Center of the Borrower, which shall 
not be higher than the maximum bulk sale price charged by the utilities,  other than 
CNEA, generating power for the Borrower's electric power sector and supplying power to 
the SIN.
(b)  The Borrower undertakes to allocate funds from the Energy and Electrical 
Funds to finance any financial requirements of CNEA only after the  financial 
requirements of utilities, other than CNEA, operating within the  Borrower's electric 
power sector have been fully met.
Section 3.10. The Borrower with support from consultants to be employed under 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, shall carry out a study on  power 
generation options, which shall be completed in time to be used in the April 30, 1989 
update of the Sector Expansion Plan as provided in Section 3.05 (a)(i) hereof, for 
purposes of (i) evaluating the operating conditions of existing thermal plants and 
recommending a rehabilitation program for the plants found to be deteriorated or 
approaching deterioration and, (ii) determining the feasibility of introducing the 
combined cycle alternative in  future electric power generation expansion plans.
Section 3.11. The Bank and the Borrower agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General  Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and  schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A.1 of the Project 
shall be carried out by EBY pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting  practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project  of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof, including separate records and accounts in
respect of Parts A.1 and B of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors which, in respect of 
the records and accounts in respect of Parts A.1 and B of the 
Project, shall be auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Page  6
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as  he Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
cause the National Utilities to maintain, for each of the calendar years 1988, 1989 
and 1990, a ratio of total consolidated operating expenses to total consolidated 
operating revenues not higher than 91%, 81% and 79% respectively.
(b)  By May 31, 1989 and by each May 31 thereafter, the Borrower shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank,  review 
whether the National Utilities would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) 
in respect of such year and the next following calendar year, and of measures required 
to meet such requirements, and shall furnish to the Bank, the results of such review 
upon its completion.
(c)  If any such review shows that the National Utilities would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the calendar years covered by such review, 
the Borrower shall promptly take, or cause to be taken, all necessary measures to 
achieve such requirements.
(d)  For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "total consolidated operating expenses" means the 
aggregate expenses related to operations of the National 
Utilities, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding depreciation and, 
interest and other charges on debt.
(ii)
The term "total consolidated operating revenues" means the 
aggregate revenues of the National Utilities from all sources 
related to their operations.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
cause the National Utilities to produce, for each  year beginning in   1988, funds 
from internal sources equivalent to not less than 30% of the annual capital 
expenditures of the National Utilities.
(b)  By May 31, 1989 and by each May 31 thereafter, the Borrower shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank,  review 
whether the National Utilities would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) 
in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the 
Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c)  If any such review shows that the National Utilities would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the fiscal years covered by  such review 
the Borrower shall promptly take or cause to be taken all necessary measures to 
achieve such requirements.
(d)  For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
Page  7
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and consumer contributions in aid of construction, net 
non-operating income, allocated Energy and Electrical Funds 
and any reduction in working capital other than cash; and
(B)  
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for depreciation and 
other non-cash operating charges), debt service 
requirements, all cash dividends and other cash distribution 
of surplus, increase in working capital other than cash and 
other cash outflows other than capital expenditures. 
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at 
the end of each fiscal year.
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next 
fiscal year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then existing 
be called for payment within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes 
and dividends.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt (excluding debt service 
payments assumed by the Borrower).
(vii)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred on 
account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 
construction, related to operations.
(viii)Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause the National Utilities to 
take all actions as shall be required to meet improvements in financial  management 
and operational levels, other than those resulting from the compliance with the 
provisions of Section 4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement, to be measured through key 
performance indicators to be mutually agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, 
as such indicators may be revised and updated annually in terms satisfactory to the 
Bank.
(b)
The SE of the Borrower and the Country Department IV, Latin America  and 
Caribbean Region of the Bank shall be the representatives of the Borrower  and the 
Bank, respectively, for purposes of revising and updating the  performance indicators 
referred to in Section 4.04 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Page  8
Section 5.01. Without limitation to any of the rights of the Borrower and the 
Bank to request an exchange of views pursuant to Section 9.01 (a) of the  General 
Conditions, the Borrower and the Bank undertake, as a minimum, to carry out an annual 
review of (i) performance of the Borrower's electric power  sector including 
compliance with Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement, and establish the necessary 
measures, if any, acceptable to the Borrower and the  Bank, to meet the key 
performance indicators referred to in Section 4.04 of  this Agreement; (ii) the update 
of the Sector Expansion Plan including the  update of the financing schemes for major 
projects included therein as provided for in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and (iii) 
the update of the plan for completing the financing of the Yacyreta Project as 
provided for in Section 3.08 of this Agreement. Such annual review shall be held 
commencing not later than May 31, 1989 and by each May 31 thereafter.
Section 5.02. The Borrower undertakes that it shall authorize the initiation of 
the construction of a public generation or transmission project  only if the project 
in question is in accordance with the Sector Expansion  Plan and has an adequate 
financing plan. The parties may agree on modifications  to such Plan in connection 
with the annual review provided for under Section 5.01 above or by request of either 
the Borrower or the Bank. For purposes of this Section, a public power generation or 
transmission project means a  facility which will be part of the SIN and has an 
estimated cost equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) or more.
Section 5.03. The Borrower through SE, shall issue regulations in  connection 
with new power sector projects concerning protection of the  environment and 
mitigation of the economic and social effects of involuntary resettlement.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)  the Treaty, any Nota Reversal, and Protocolo or any other legal instrument 
under which EBY has been created and is operating, shall have been  amended or waived 
so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying out of  Part A.1 of the Project 
or the operations or financial condition of EBY;
(b)  any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the  
dissolution or disestablishment of EBY for the suspension of its operations;
(c)  EBY shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(d)  the Borrower or Paraguay shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Second Owners' Agreement;
(e)  any event shall have occurred giving the Bank the right, pursuant to the 
Yacyreta Loan Agreement, to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals under such Loan Agreement;
(f)  the right of the Borrower or EBY to withdraw the proceeds of any loan made 
to the Borrower or EBY for the financing of the Project or Part A.1 of the Project, 
respectively, shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
(g)  any loan referred to in paragraph (f) of this Section shall have become due 
and payable prior to the agreed maturity therefor;
(h)  an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that EBY will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(i)  the Borrower and the Bank shall have failed to agree on any update or 
revision of the key performance indicators for any year as provided in Section 4.04 
(a) of this Agreement;
(j)  the Borrower and the Bank shall have failed to agree on any update of the 
Sector Expansion Plan including the financing of major projects included therein 
pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(k)  the Borrower and the Bank shall have failed to agree on any update  of the 
Page  9
financing plan for the completion of the Yacyreta Project pursuant to Section 3.08 of 
this Agreement; and
(l)  the Borrower shall have failed to take actions which, in the opinion of the 
Bank, are necessary for purposes of protecting the environment in connection with the 
execution of the Project.
Paragraphs (f) and (g) of this Section shall not apply if: (i) such suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower 
or EBY to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds 
for Part A.1 of the Project are available to EBY from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations  of the Borrower under this Agreement and 
of EBY under the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)  an event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (i), (j), (k) or (l) of Section 
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of  30 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)  any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (e), (f), or (g) of Section 
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)  IDB has notified the Bank that the IDB Loan Agreement has been executed, 
and subject only to the fulfillment of the initial conditions of disbursement, if any;
(b)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed by the Borrower and 
EBY; and
(c)  all action has been taken by the Guarantor in order to permit the timely 
procurement of goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Loan Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in  the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by EBY and 
is legally binding upon EBY in accordance with its terms;
(b)  that the Second Owners' Agreement has been duly authorized or  ratified by 
the Borrower and Paraguay, and is legally binding upon the Borrower  and Paraguay in 
accordance with its terms;
(c)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed and duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and EBY, and is legally binding upon  such 
parties in accordance with its terms;
(d)  that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given by 
the Borrower and Paraguay and by any political subdivision thereof in  order to 
authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable EBY to perform all of its 
obligations pursuant to the Project Agreement, together with all necessary powers and 
rights in connection therewith, have been performed or given; and
(e)  that the action referred to in Section 7.01 (c) of this Loan Agreement has 
been taken and no other action on behalf of the Guarantor or the Borrower is required 
for the procurement of goods and services in accordance  with the provisions of the 
Guarantee Agreement and this Agreement.
Section 7.03. The date February 20, 1989 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Page  10
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 4.04 (b) of this Agreement, the 
Ministro de Economia of the Borrower is designated as representative of  the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121952-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Rodolfo Terragno
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
he table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
Page  11
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works               182,400,000      50%
     under Part A.1
     of the Project
(2)  Consultants'               27,000,000      50%
     services under
     Part A.1 of
     the Project
(3)  Goods and services          2,000,000      100%
     under Part B of
     the Project
(4)  Interest and               18,200,000      Amounts due
     other charges                              pursuant to
     on the Loan                                Section 2.02 (c)
     accrued on                                 of this Agree-
     or before                                  ment
     May 14, 1990
(5)  Interest and               22,400,000      Amounts due pur-
     other charges                              suant to Section
     on Loan 1761 AR                            2.02 (c) of this
     accrued after                              Agreement
     the date of this
     Loan Agreement
     and on or before
     May 14, 1990
          TOTAL                252,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, above, the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan in respect of Categories (1) 
and (2) may, in the Bank's sole discretion, be increased up to 100 percent of such 
expenditures if by the Effective Date of this Loan  Agreement the initial conditions 
of disbursement under the IDB Loan Agreement shall not have been fulfilled, provided, 
however, that: (i) as a result of financing such increased percentage of expenditures, 
withdrawals in respect of Categories (1) and (2) shall not in the aggregate exceed the 
equivalent of $104,700,000;  and (ii) after the initial conditions of disbursement 
under the IDB Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled, such percentage shall be 
decreased to less than 50 percent to the extent necessary to ensure that the Bank and 
IDB shall each finance a total of 50 percent of the aggregate amount of expenditures 
in respect of each of the categories (1) and (2).
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no further withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of expenditures to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan 
after the aggregate amount of the proceeds of the Loan  withdrawn from the Loan 
Account shall have reached the equivalent of $170,000,000, unless:
(a)  all conditions of disbursement under the IDB Loan Agreement, other than the 
conditions of disbursement referred to in Section 7.01 (a) of this  Agreement, if any, 
shall have been fulfilled; and
(b) the Bank shall be satisfied with: (i) the progress in implementing the 
programs or plans referred to in Section 3.04 (d) of this Agreement; and (ii) the 
results of the review to be held commencing not later than May 31, 1989 pursuant to 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement.
Page  12
6.
If, after the review described in paragraph 5 (b) above, the Bank shall have 
given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not 
satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower shall not 
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, 
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to:
(a)  improve the allocation of resources within, and the financial soundness of 
the National Utilities;
(b)  improve the efficiency of the National Utilities;
(c)  promote the rational use of electricity through a tariff system based on 
economic costs;
(d)  strengthen the institutional structure of the Borrower's electric power 
sector in the areas of coordination, planning and regulation;
(e)  establish and enforce policies and procedures in respect of environmental 
protection and resettlement aspects in connection with the Borrower's electric power 
sector projects; and
(f)  implement a portion of the Borrower's investment program included in the 
Sector Expansion Plan for the years 1988-1989.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Investment Program
 
1.
All works and services in connection with the Yacyreta Project.
 
2.
Power generation and transmission works carried out by AyE and HIDRONOR.
 
3.
Power distribution works being carried out or to be carried out by AyE and 
SEBGA.
4.
Studies to be carried out by the Borrower concerning the Borrower's needs for 
electric power generation, transmission and distribution systems after the year 1989.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
 
Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of:
1.
Consultants' studies.
 
2.
Acquisition and utilization of computers and office equipment.
 
3.
Acquisition and utilization of data base and communication equipment for SE.
 
4.
Acquisition and utilization of miscellaneous equipment.
 
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1989.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)
 
On each May 15 and November 15
Page  13
      beginning May 15, 1995
      through   November 15, 2001                   
18,000,000
________________________
* 
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The interest rate (expressed as a
                                         percentage per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding on the Loan
                                         on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                         by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods under Part B of the Project
 
Part A:
Limited International Bidding
 
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded through limited  international 
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a 
list of at least three qualified contractors or suppliers,  eligible under the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections 
I and II of the Guidelines  (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part B:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
Page  14
(a)  With respect to each contract for equipment estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals  from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such  contracts shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
Whenever consultants are employed to assist in the carrying out of the  Project, 
such consultants shall have qualifications, experience and terms and  conditions of 
employment satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be  selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $50,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special  
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do  not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of  such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
Page  15
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been made out of the Special  Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective Eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the  Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to  the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made  exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General  Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of  $100,000,000, twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories for the 
Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank  shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not  eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified  by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion  thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,  no further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this  Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
