Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2998 AR
(Electric Power Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA
Dated November 18, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2998 AR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 18, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA (EBY).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Argentine 
Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make  available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two  hundred fifty two million 
dollars ($252,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that EBY agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)  EBY will carry out or cause to be carried out Part A.1 of the Project, as 
defined in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement;
(C)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
EBY, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the  Loan Agreement will 
be made available to EBY on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS EBY, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General  Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and  the term "Yacyreta 
Project Agreement" means the  Project Agreement, dated November 6, 1979, between the 
Bank and EBY, as amended.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) EBY declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement in respect of Part A.1 of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out such Part of the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
Part A.1 of the Project.
(b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Bank and EBY shall otherwise agree, EBY shall carry out Part A.1 of the 
Project in accordance  with the Implementation Program set  forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A.1 of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. EBY shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to  insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and  reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A.1 of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. EBY shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EBY shall not take or concur 
in any action which would have the effect of amending,  abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) EBY shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of the Yacyreta Project, the  performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary  Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the Yacyreta Project.
(b)  EBY shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Yacyreta Project, the  accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by EBY of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) EBY shall take all reasonable measures to ensure that the 
execution and operation of the Yacyreta Project is carried out with due  regard to 
ecological and environmental factors.
(b)  EBY shall take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and 
when needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for 
carrying out the Yacyreta Project and shall furnish to the Bank,  promptly after such 
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such  land and rights in respect 
of land are available for purposes related to the Yacyreta Project.
(c)  Without limitation to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, EBY shall 
carry out the plan of action set forth in Schedule 3 hereto relating to  environmental 
Page  3
and resettlement aspects of the Yacyreta Project. EBY shall promptly furnish to the 
Bank all such evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the adherence 
of EBY to such plan of action.
Section 2.07. EBY shall maintain the panel of experts which has been appointed 
under Section 2.02 (b) of the Yacyreta Project Agreement, and shall  cause such panel 
of experts to conduct periodic reviews of dam safety in  accordance with a program to 
be submitted to the Bank not later than January 1, 1990. Such program shall cover the 
entire useful life of the Yacyreta Project and shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.08. (a) EBY shall furnish to the Bank: plans, specifications, reports, 
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the  Yacyreta 
Project, which have not already been provided to the Bank pursuant to the Yacyreta 
Project Agreement, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)  EBY: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate to record  and 
monitor the progress of the Yacyreta Project (including their cost and the  benefits 
to be derived from them), to identify the services financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, and to disclose their use in such Part of the Project; (ii) shall enable the 
Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Yacyreta Project and any relevant 
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular  intervals all 
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Yacyreta Project, 
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure 
of such proceeds and the services financed therewith.
(c)  Promptly after completion of the Yacyreta Project, EBY shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank  shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Yacyreta Project, 
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by EBY 
and the Bank of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Yacyreta Project.
(d)  EBY shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all plants, 
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of EBY and any relevant 
records and documents.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EBY
Section 3.01. EBY shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew 
all rights, powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are necessary or 
useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.02. EBY shall:
(a)  operate and maintain its plants, equipment and property, and from time to 
time, make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in  accordance with 
appropriate engineering, and public utility practices; and
(b)  under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, cause the dam and related 
structures referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of the Yacyreta Project  Agreement to be 
periodically inspected in accordance with sound engineering  practice in order to 
determine whether there are any  deficiencies in the condition of such dam and 
structures or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of 
the same, which may endanger their
safety. To this end, EBY shall propose to the Bank appropriate arrangements for the 
Bank's review no later than one year before the expected completion of such dam and 
structures.
Section 3.03. EBY shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of 
its properties or assets required for the efficient carrying out of its  business and 
undertaking, including the carrying out of the Yacyreta Project, except in the normal 
course of its business or with the prior agreement of the
Bank.
Section 3.04. EBY shall at all times carry on its operations, manage its  
affairs, maintain its financial position, all in accordance with appropriate business, 
financial and public utility practices and under experienced and competent management 
assisted by adequate and competent staff.
Page  4
Section 3.05. EBY shall, during the carrying out of the Yacyreta Project and 
after its completion, take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or  make other 
provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate public utility practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EBY shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)  EBY shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses, statements of sources 
of funds and their application and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request; 
and
(iv)
not later than October 31 each year, furnish to the Bank evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank, that it has employed the auditors 
referred to in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section.
Section 4.02. (a) EBY shall: (i) by October 31 in each year during the execution 
of the Yacyreta Project furnish to the Bank a report on the  long-term debt contracted 
by EBY during the previous twelve months and the  long-term debt proposed to be 
contracted by EBY during the following twelve month-period, such report to be in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and (ii) exchange views with the Bank 
thereon.
(b)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EBY shall not incur short-term 
debt unless the short-term debt to be incurred, when added to the total short-term 
debt of EBY, does not exceed the higher of 10% of the total  debt of EBY, including 
the short-term debt to be incurred, or 100% of the long-term debt contracted by EBY 
with private banks, exclusive of export credits, and not yet drawn down.
For purposes of this Section:
(i)
"long-term debt" means any debt incurred by EBY and maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred;
(ii)
"short-term debt" means any overdraft or debt incurred by EBY and 
maturing by its terms one year or less than one year after the 
date on which it is originally incurred;
(iii)
"debt" means the total of long-term and short-term debt; and
 
(iv)
long-term and short-term debt shall be deemed to be incurred (1) 
under a loan agreement, on the date it is drawn down but only to 
the extent that it is outstanding, and (2) under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date such agreement is entered into.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Page  5
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.O2. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of EBY 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify EBY thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Enforceability of Project Agreement
Failure to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section 6.01. The rights and  obligations of the Bank and EBY under this 
Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms 
notwithstanding the law of any state or political subdivision thereof, to the 
contrary.
Section 6.02. No delay in  xercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power 
or remedy accruing to any party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair any 
such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver  thereof of an acquiescence 
in such default, nor shall any action of such party in respect of any default, or any 
acquiescence by it in any default, affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such 
party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 6.03. Arbitration. (a) Any controversy between the Bank and EBY and any 
claim by the Bank against EBY or by EBY against the Bank arising under  this Agreement 
which shall not be determined by agreement of the parties shall  be submitted to 
arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b)  The parties to such arbitration shall be the Bank, on the one side, and 
EBY, on the other side.
(c)  The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Bank; one arbitrator shall be 
appointed by EBY; and the third arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes called  the Umpire) 
shall be appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they shall not agree, by the 
President of the International Court of Justice or, failing appointment by him, by the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations. If the Bank  shall fail to appoint its 
arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any arbitrator 
appointed in accordance with this Section shall resign, die or become unable to act, a 
successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner as herein prescribed for 
the appointment of the  original arbitrator and such successor shall have all the 
powers and duties of such original arbitrator.
(d)  An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon notice 
by the party instituting such proceeding to the other parties. Such  notice shall 
contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy  or claim to be 
submitted to arbitration and the nature of the relief sought. Within thirty (30) days 
after the giving of such notice, each side shall notify
the other side of the arbitrator appointed by it.
(e)  If within sixty (60) days after the giving of such notice instituting the 
arbitration proceeding the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire,  any party 
may request the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section.
(f)  The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire.  Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when 
it shall sit.
(g)  Subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the parties shall 
otherwise agree, the Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions  relating to its 
competence and shall determine its procedure.  All decisions  of the Arbitral Tribunal 
shall be by majority vote.
(h)  The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties a fair hearing and shall 
render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award signed by 
a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award  of such Tribunal. A 
signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any such award 
Page  6
rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final and binding 
upon the parties to this Agreement. Each party shall abide by and comply with any such 
award rendered by the Arbitral  Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of this 
Section.
(i)  The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators and 
such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the  arbitration 
proceedings. If the parties shall not agree on such amount before  the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be 
reasonable under the circumstances. The Bank and EBY shall defray their own respective 
expenses  in the arbitration proceedings. The costs of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be 
divided between and borne equally by the Bank, on the one side, and EBY, on the other. 
Any question concerning the  division of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the 
procedure for payment of  such costs shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(j)  The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu 
of any other procedure for the determination of controversies between the parties to 
this Agreement or any claim by the Bank against EBY or by EBY  against the Bank 
arising hereunder.
(k)  If within thirty (30) days after counterparts of the award shall be 
delivered to the parties the award shall not be complied with, any party may  enter 
judgement upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any  court of 
competent jurisdiction against any other party, may enforce such judgement by 
execution or may pursue any other appropriate remedy against
such other party for the enforcement of the award or the provisions of this Agreement.
(l)  Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under 
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered 
pursuant to this Section may be made upon the parties to this  Agreement in the manner 
provided in Section 7.01 of this Agreement.  The  parties to this Agreement waive any 
and all other requirements for the service of any such notice or process.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by  this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or  at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the  party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For EBY:
(1)  Entidad Binacional Yacyreta
Madero 942
(1106) Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
 
YACYRETA
22659 YAC AR
Baires
Page  7
(2)  Entidad Binacional Yacyreta
Humaita 357
Asuncion
Paraguay
Cable address:
Telex:
 
YACYRETA
268-PY YACYRETA
Asuncion
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EBY, or by EBY 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be  taken or executed jointly 
by the Director Ejecutivo and the Director or such  other person or persons as the 
Director Ejecutivo and the Director shall designate in writing, and EBY shall furnish 
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA
By /s/ Raul Alberto Capucci
   /s/ Jorge Pablo Kirsch
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works under Part A.1 of the Project
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set  forth 
in Schedule 2 to the Yacyreta Project Agreement.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
Whenever consultants are employed to assist in the carrying out of Part  A.1 of 
the Project, such consultants shall have qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants  shall be selected 
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of 
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
                                     Start                   Conclusion
Page  8
A.   Civil Works
      of Dams
     -    Right bank                 *                       2nd quarter 1992
     -    Yacyreta Island            *                       1st quarter 1991
     -    Left bank                  *                       2nd quarter 1992
B.   River Closure
     -    Main Branch                2nd quarter 1989        2nd quarter 1992
     -    Ana Cua Branch             2nd quarter 1990        2nd quarter 1992
C.   Civil Works of
      Spillways
     -    Main Branch                *                       4th quarter 1992
     -    Ana Cua Branch             *                       4th quarter 1992
D.   Power House
      Construction
     -    First Stage                *                       2nd quarter 1992
     -    Second Stage               2nd quarter 1990        4th quarter 1994
E.   Irrigation Intakes              2nd quarter 1990        4th quarter 1991
F.   Electromechanical
      Equipment
     -    Navigation Lock            *                       2nd quarter 1989
     -    Spillways and
           Gates                     1st quarter 1989        4th quarter 1991
     -    Turbines and
           Generators                2nd quarter 1990        3rd quarter 1996
G.   Relocation of Infrastructure
      Works                          *                       4th quarter 1992
H.   Resettlement of Displaced
      Population                     *                       4th quarter 1992
*    Started prior to 3rd quarter 1988.
SCHEDULE 3
EBY's Environmental and Resettlement Plan of Action
Item      Description                                               Date
1.        Resettlement Staff
          Agreement between the Bank and EBY on number and
          participation schedule of staff hired or to be hired
          and on the budget for every year in the period
          1989-1992 for the environmental and resettlement
          component.                                                10/30/88 C
2.        Training
          Agreement between the Bank and EBY on a training
          program for the staff, including courses, seminars and
          workshops and international on-the-job training.          10/30/88 C
3.        Panel of Experts on Environment
          Agreement between the Bank and EBY on the composition
          and schedule of meetings.                                 10/30/88 C
4.        Fisheries
Page  9
          Completion of economic, social and nutritional studies.    5/30/89 C
          Installation of fish station, left bank.                   5/30/90 C
5.        Fauna Sanctuary
          Agreement between the Bank and EBY on schedule and
          budget for completion and operation.                       5/30/89 C
6.        Urban Areas
          Completion of Master Plan for the city of Encarnacion.    11/30/89 C
          Implementation of Master Plan for Encarnacion.             6/30/90 S
          Completion of sanitation plan for the city of Posadas.     6/30/89 C
7.        Population not included in Original Survey of the
          Population to be Resettled
          Provision to the Bank of an evaluation of the extent
          of the problems.                                           5/30/89 C
8.        Clay Industries (Olerias)
          Provision to the Bank of a proposal for solution.          5/30/89 C
C = Completion Date
S = Starting Date
