Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2998 AR
(Electric Power Sector Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 18, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2998 AR
SECOND OWNERS' AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 18, 1988, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (hereinafter 
called Argentina) and REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (hereinafter called   Paraguay) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
     WHEREAS:
     (A)  Argentina, Paraguay and the Bank have entered into the Owners  Agreement, 
dated November 6, 1979, (the First Owners Agreement) in respect of  Entidad Binacional 
Yacyreta and the carrying out of the Project described in the Preamble to the First 
Owners Agreement;
     (B)  Argentina and Paraguay hereby represent that under their respective 
constitutions and legislation they are authorized and empowered to enter into  this 
supplement to the First Owners' Agreement (the Second Owners Agreement);
     (C)  by a Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Argentina and the  Bank 
(hereinafter called the Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to lend to  Argentina for 
Page  2
purposes of, inter alia, Part A.1 of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent  to two hundred fifty two 
million dollars ($252,000,000) (hereinafter called the Loan), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement;
     (D)  Part A.1 of the Project consists of civil works and engineering  services 
for purposes of completing the project described in the Preamble to the First Owners 
Agreement;
     (E)  Paraguay and Argentina hereby authorized EBY to enter into the Project 
Agreement which provides for the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project by EBY; and
     (F)  in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Project Agreement with EBY, 
Argentina and Paraguay have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
     Section  1.  Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise  
requires, the following terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Treaty" means the treaty, dated December 3, 1973, between Argentina and 
Paraguay in respect of the carrying out and operation of the Yacyreta project.
     (b)  "EBY" means Entidad Binacional Yacyreta, a binational entity owned in equal 
parts by Paraguay and Argentina, and created under the Treaty.
     (c)  "Nota Reversal" means any of the diplomatic notes supplementing the  Treaty 
and exchanged between Paraguay and Argentina.
     (d)  "Protocolo" means any of the protocolos supplementing the Treaty and signed 
between Argentina and Paraguay.
     (e)  "Project Agreement" means the project agreement between the Bank and EBY of 
even date herewith whereby EBY undertakes to carry out Part A.1 of the Project.
     (f)  "Part A.1 of the Project" means Part A.1 of the Project as described in 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.
     (g)  "Yacyreta Project" means the Project, as so defined, pursuant to the First 
Owners Agreement.
     Section 2. Argentina and Paraguay, in accordance with their rights and 
obligations under the Treaty and the applicable Notas Reversales, shall exercise their 
rights thereunder so as to ensure that at all times after the completion of the 
Yacyreta Project the contracted capacity (potencia contratada) of EBY is equal to its 
installed capacity (potencia instalada), as such terms are defined in Annex "C" to the 
Treaty.
     Section  3.  Paraguay and Argentina shall, each of them promptly as  needed, take 
all legislative and other measures necessary for purposes of EBY's  acquiring the land 
or the rights in respect of land referred to in Section 2.06 (b) of the Project 
Agreement, all as provided in Article XVII of the Treaty in
respect of the approval by  Paraguay and Argentina of the definition by EBY of the 
land forming part of the territories of both countries and needed by EBY  for purposes 
of the Yacyreta Project.
     Section 4. Whenever Argentina and Paraguay shall cause EBY to undertake new 
projects or expansion or modification of Part A of the Yacyreta Project, Argentina and 
Paraguay shall take measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that such project or 
expansion or modification will not materially and  adversely affect the execution of 
Parts A, B and C of the Yacyreta Project or the operation of the facilities included 
in Part A of the Yacyreta Project.
     Section 5. Paraguay and Argentina shall take all necessary measures in respect of 
Article VI of the Treaty to ensure the demarcation of their common boundary in the 
area of the Yacyreta Project six  months before any proposed  action related to the 
Yacyreta Project which would alter the natural course of the Parana River.
     Section 6. Argentina and Paraguay shall take all necessary measures to ensure 
that EBY will, six  months before the date on which the power plant  included in the 
Yacyreta Project is scheduled to start to operate, furnish to the Bank a program for 
putting into effect the rate system provided for in the Treaty, such program to 
Page  3
include a method of valuation of the paid-in capital of EBY satisfactory to Argentina 
and Paraguay.
     Section 7. Paraguay and Argentina shall permit or cause EBY to perform duly all 
its obligations under the Project Agreement, and Argentina and Paraguay shall not 
take, or cause or permit any of the political subdivisions or agencies of either of 
them or any agency of any such political subdivision to take, an action which would 
prevent or interfere with the performance by EBY of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
     Section 8. (a) Argentina and Paraguay shall, at the request of the Bank,  
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Yacyreta   Project, 
the performance of the obligations of each of them under this  Agreement and the 
performance by EBY of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  Paraguay and Argentina shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
adversely affects or may affect the progress of the Yacyreta Project, or the 
performance of the obligations of either of them under this Agreement, or the 
performance by EBY of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     Section 9. This Agreement and the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes 
or fees that shall be imposed under the laws of Argentina or Paraguay or  laws in 
effect in the territories of Argentina or Paraguay on or in connection  with the 
execution, issue, delivery, registration, recording or filing thereof.
     Section 10. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Project Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 11. This Agreement and all obligations of Argentina, Paraguay and the 
Bank thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Project Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms.
     Section 12. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under 
this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement 
shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be delivered by hand or by mail, 
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted 
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other 
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice 
or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For Argentina:
          Ministerio de Economia
          Hipolito Irigoyen 250
          Buenos Aires
          Argentina
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINISTERIO ECONOMIA             121952 AR
     For Paraguay:
          Ministerio de Hacienda
          Asuncion
          Paraguay
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINIHACIENDA                    URW CO PYAN 080
                Asuncion
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
          Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
Page  4
                INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     Section 13. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of:
     (a)  Argentina may be taken or executed by the Ministro de Economia or  such 
other person or persons as the Ministro de Economia shall designate in  writing, and 
Argentina shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each of such person.
     (b)  Paraguay may be taken or executed by the Ministro de Hacienda or  such other 
person or persons as the Ministro de Hacienda shall designate in writing, and Paraguay 
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the  authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each person.
     Section  14.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
                          THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
                          By /s/ Rodolfo Terragno
Authorized Representative
                          REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
                          By /s/ Marcos Martinez Mendieta
Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                            RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                          By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
