Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7444-COB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
AUGUST 13, 1990
Agriculture Operations
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1 = CFAF 285 (February 1990)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAT      Centre d'Appui Technique (DRDFV)
CCCE     Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CNCVRA   Comite National de Coordination de la Vulgarisation et Recherche
Agricoles
CNSA     Centre National des Semences Am6lior6es
CRC      Credit Rural du Congo
CTFT     Centre Technique Forestier Tropical
DEP      Direction des Etudes et de la Planification (MJDR)
DRDFV    Direction de la Recherche-Developpement, de la Formation et de la
Vulgarisation (MJDR)
DRDR     Direction Regionale du Developpement Rural
DRR      Direction de la Radio Rurale
EB       Encadreur de Base
EDF      European Development Fund
FAC      Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization
GOC      Government of the Congo
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
MESS     Ministere de l'Enseignement Secondaire et Superieur, charge de la
Recherche Scientifique
MJDR     MiT,ist6re de la Jeunesse et du Developpement Rural
MUCODEC  Mutuelles Congolaises d'Epargne et de Credit
OCC      Office du Cafe et du Cacao
OCV      Office des Cultures Vivrieres
OPVA     Operation Pilote et Vulgarisation Agricole
PIP      Public Investment Program
PR       Promotion Rurale
SAL      Structural Adjustment Lending
SCT      Service de Coordination Technique (DRDR)
SPR      Service de la Promotion Rurale (DRDFV)
SSE      Service de Suivi-Evaluation (DRDFV)
TS,      Technicien Specialise
TSPA     Technicien Specialise de Production Animale
TSPC     Technicien Specialise de Pisciculture
TSPR     Technicien Specialise de Promotion Rurale
TSPV     Technicien Specialise de Production Vdg6tale
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE .............................. iii
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .........................................    iv
KEY FEATURES OF THE RURAL SECTOR ..................................... vii
I.  INTRODUCTION.                                                                1
II.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND.                                                        1
A. Economic Setting              ..                                    1
B. The Agricultural Sector            ..                               3
1. Main Features.                                                3
2.  Government Agricultural Strategy.                            4
3. Institutional Environment.                                    5
C.  Bank Sector Strategy ...................................  11
III. THE PROJECT    ..12
A.  Project Rationale, Objectives and Summary Description             12
B. Detailed Features    ..13
1. Agricultural Extension .13
2. Adaptive Research .14
3. Training and Rural Promotion .16
4. Monitoring and Evaluation .18
5. Management Support .19
6. Other Extension Support .20
7. Agricultural Planning .22
C. Project Costs and Financing    .                .23
1. Cost Estimates .23
2. Financing .24
3. Procurement .25
4. Disbursements .26
5.  Financial Management, Accounting
and Audit Requirements .27
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    ..28
A.  General Project Organization .28
B. The Extension Service .28
C. Adaptive Research .30
D.  Training and Rural Promotion .31
E. Monitoring and Evaluation .32
F. Other Extension Support .32
G. Agricultural Planning .33
This report is based on the findings of a re-appraisal mission which
visited the Congo from January 28 to February 15, 1990, consisting of
Messrs. J.-C. Balcet (Mission Leader, AFlAG), A. Seznec (AFTAG), A. Ben
Mayor (AFTAG), M. Tall (Consultant, AFlAG), and Ms. M. Randriamamonjy (FAO).
The Lead Advisor was Mr. I. Serejski (formerly AFTAG) who had led the
appraisal mission in June 1988. The report was edited by Mrs. M. Layton.
The secretarial work was done by Mrs. H. Hoang and Miss Hortense Nguele.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TAILE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
V.       BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS       .......................... 33
A.   Project Benefits ....... ..........*..O* ...............  33
B.   Economic  Justification  ......... . . ..     ........................... * ...***   34
C.   Budgetary Implications .................. ............ . 34
D.   Environmental Impact ...     .......     ............... ......... 35
E. Risks   ........... 35
VI.      ASSURANCES, CONDITICNS AND RECOMMENDATION .................. 36
ANNEXES
1.       MDJR's Organizational Chart
2.       DRDFV's Organizational Chart
3.       DEP's Organizational Chart
4.       Table 1:  Phasing-in of Districts
Table 2: Extension Staff Requirements per District
S.       Terms of Reference for the Resident Technical Assistance
6.       Technical Diagnosis and Main Orientations of Adaptive Research
7.       Adaptive Research:  Methodology and Organization of On-Farm
and CAT Trials
S.       Cost Estimates
Table 1.  Summary Accounts by Project Component
Table 2.  Project Components by Year
Table 3.  Summary Accounts by Year
9.       Financial Implications for the Government
10.      Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursement
11.      Organizational Chart of the Extension Service
12.      Extension Methods and Organization
13.      Economic Analysis
Table 1. With/Without Project Yield Assumptions
Table 2: Cropped Area Under Project and Production Increases
Table 3: Net Economic Benefits
Table 4: Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
WPS
IBRD No. 20853 - Location of Main Project Facilities
IBRD No. 21133 - Phasing-in of Districts



- iii -
PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Background Documents and Reports
1. Agriculture Sector Project, Identification Report, FAO/CP Investment
Center, July 1985.
2. Bil3n Agro-Alimentaire et D4finition des Grandes Options d'uns
Nouvelle Politique Agricole pour lee Prochaines Ann4es.   Comit&
National pour l'Agricul* re, March 1986.
S. Les Possibilit6s d'Augmentation de la Production Ovine en Republique
Populaire du Congo, Projet UTF/PRC/012/PRC, September 1986.
4. Conercialisation des Produits Agricoles en Republique Populaire du
Congo. SEP D#veloppement, February 1987.
5. Document d'Assistance Prdparatoire, PNUD, Occober 1987.
6. Programe National de Vulgarisation Agricole, Rapport de Preparation.
53? D6veloppement, December 1987.
7. Mission d'Identification Generale de Projets Agricoles, FAO/CP
Investment Center, January 1988.
S. Agricultural Sector Review, World Bank, April 1990.
D. Vorking Papers
1. Organization of Extension
2. Training Program
S. Elements of Diagnosis of WID Matters in the Context of the Congo
4.  Information, Communications and Media
5. KonLtoring and Education
6. Detailed Cost Estimates



- iv -
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            People's Republic of the Congo
Beneficiary:         Ministry of Youth and Rural Development (MJDR)
Amount:              US$15.8 million
Terms:               20 years,  including a five-year grace period at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate
Project Description:The project would support the Government's efforts to
increase the production efficiency and the income of
small farmers by facilitating the development and
dissemination of relevant agricultural technology. It
would be the first phase of a longer-term program aimed
at building a national extension and adaptive research
system responsive to farmers' needs, in particular those
of the two target groups of the women and youths, and
addressing in an integrated fashion all relevant aspects
of smallholder farming systems.
To further the above objectives the project would help:
(a)  reorganize and strengthen the Extension Service
along the basic principles of the Training and Visit
(T&V) system;
(b)  strengthen the adaptive research program;
(c)  implement a comprehensive staff training and rural
promotion   program   using   appropriate   media
capabilities;
(d)  implement a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) program;
(e)  provide management support;
(f)  promote  extension  support  for  small  ruminants
husbandry and inland fish farming; and
(g)  strengthen agricultural planning capabilities.



-v -
I of
Estimated Proiect Costs a/         Local  Foreign   Total      Base Costs
_--  (US$ million)----
A. Agricultural Extension           3.5     3.8      7.3          43.$
B. Adaptive Research                1.8     1.7      3.5          21.2
C. Training and Rural Promotion    1.0      1.2      2.2          13.4
D. Monitoring and Evaluation        0.3     0.4      0.7           4.3
S. Management Support               0.8     0.7      1.5           9.0
F. Other Extension Support
1. Small Ruminants             0.3     0.3      0.6           3.4
2. Fish farming                0.1     0.2      0.3           1.6
Sub-Total                  0.4      0.5      0.9          5.0
0. Agricultural Planning            0.1     0.4      O              3
Total Base Costs                    7.9     8.7     16.6         100.0
Physical Contingencies         0.3     0.5      0.8           4.8
Price Contingencies            1-4     2-9      4-3          2-,9
Total Project Costs
(including taxes)                 9.6    12.1      21.7        130.7
Taxes                               0.6     --       0.6
Total Project Costs
(net of taxes)                      9.0    12.1     21.1
al     Including two PPF advances totaling US$1.5 million.
Financing Plan                     Local     Foreign       Total
(~~~~-USS million) … ----
Government                          4.0        0.5           4.5
IBID                                5.3       10.5         15.8
UNDP                                0.1        0.8           0.9
European Development Fund           0.2        0.3           O S
Total                               9.6       12.1         21.7
n 
sttimated Disbursements from IBRD Loan
IBRD Fiscal Year
1991   1992    1993    1994   1995    1996
---------------- US$ mlilllon ---- 7-=---------
Annual                           1.9    1.1     3.8      3.9    2.7      2.4
Cumulative                       1.9    3.0     6.8    10.7   13.4      13.6



vi -
Benefits and Risks
By improving the organization, management and content of the
extension and adaptive research system, the project should cause significant
growth in agricultural output. The T&V system of extension management which
will be used has been associated in many countries with high crop yield
increases.  The project would benefit directly about 58 percent of fann
households nationwide, 701 of which are headed by women. It would also be
an important step in the creation of an overall institutional framework
addressing the changing needs of the agricultural sector.
The main factors that could hamper satisfactory project execution
are inadequate budgetary support, lower than expected adoption rates of
improved cultivation practices, unattractive prices and lack of marketing
opportunities. Concerning budgetary support, the Bank Loan would provide for
about 50 percent of incremental operating costs on a declining basis over the
five-year  implementation period.   This would decrease  pressure  on the
national budget, and, therefore, reduce the risk that the Government's
budgetary contribution be lower than expected.  Farmer adoption rates are
expected to be significant iecause the project would introduce more efficient
methods for managing extension staff and providing extension advice; it would
also strengthen adaptive research so that it could generate appropriate
technical recommendations suitable for dissemination to small farmers.
Prices are now market determined, but could be depressed by structural
inefficiencies in marketing and poor infrastructure. Several projects to be
implemented in the near future with external assistance would reduce this
riskt    (a)  several  operations  funded  by  the  International  Fund  for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the European Development Fund (EDP)
intend to provide support for market development; and (b) the Bank's Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project presently being re-appraised would
contribute to address the transport constraint.
Economic Rate of Return
19 percent (Extension Component).



- vii -
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
KEY FEATURES OF THE RURAL SECTOR
Unit                Average
1970-80     1980-86       1987
1.  Population
Total                          m                 1.1         1.7        2.0
Rural as Z of Total            X                  64          55         42
Active Farm Population         '000              250         280        246
2.  Economic Overview
GDP/Head of Total Pop.
(cons. 1981)                $                  878        1462       930
Agric. GDP/Head of
Rural Population                               134         181        210
Agr. GDP as Z of Total         X                15.5         9.4        9.7
3.  Land Use
Land Area                      sq.km.        342,000    342,000   342,000
Perennial Crops                '000 ha            17          17         19
Annual Crops                   '000 ha           187         187        142
Dense Forest                   '000 ha        21,500      21,500    21,500
Savanna                        '000 ha        11,200      11,200    11,200
4.  Output
Cassava                        '000 tons         578         639        485
Plantains/Bananas                                 32          50         77
Groundnuts                                        16          16         18
Yams and Other Tubers              n              10           9         10
Coffee                         tons              710         907        975
Cocoa                                           2700        2024       1301
Palm Oil                           n              -         1524        508
5.  Trade (Current Prices)
Total Exports (FOB)            $ m               900         650        917
of which:
- Agr. Products              z                   2           1          0
- Forest Products            2                  12          13         13
- Fish Products              Z                  _           _          _
Total Imports (CIF)            $ m               660         620        611
of which:
Food Imports (recorded)    Z                    10          16         14



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Since its independence in 1960, the People's Republic of the Congo
has  relied heavily on the public  sector to generate  employment.   This
tendency has accentuated since the mid-1970s due to the rising importance of
oil revenues in the government budget.   The softening of oil prices in
1984-85 brought liquidity problems and led the Government to launch an
ambitious structural adjustment (SAL) program to reverse the deteriorating
trend of the economy. The development of the smallholder sector, which has
been neglected for over 20 years, is a key element of this program.
Consistent with this strategy, the Government has decided to reorient its
agricultural development policy toward peasant agriculture through the recent
implementation of institutional, pricing and ma:keting reforms (para 2.14).
To complement these reforms, it has requested the Bank's assistance in
formulating and financing investments to improve the smaliholder supporL
services, and as a priority extension and adaptive research. To this effect,
the proposed project would reorganize and strengthen the Government's
extension and adaptive research system. This would support the Government's
efforts to increase production efficiency and the income of small-scale
farmers by Lacilitating the development and dissemination of relevant
technology.
1.02      With Bank and UNDP assistance, the Government launched in May 1987
a pilot extension operation (Operation Pilote de Vulgarisation Agricole -
OPVA, paras 2.19 to 2.21) to test the applicability of the Training and Visit
(T&V) system in the Congolese context. The results of these tests have been
positive and have helped establish work methods and norms which the
Government intends to use as the basis for implementation of its extension
and adaptive research program.  The project was prepared by the Government,
with the assistance of national consultants and the Bank, over the period
of approximately a year from Hay 1987 to Hay 1988.   It was  initially
appraised in June 1988 and negotiated in November 1988.  Subsequently, on
account of Congo's creditworthiness status, it was decided that continued
Bank lending to the country would be contingent upon agreement on a
satisfactory financial and economic program.   Such a program was not agreed
until November 1989, at which date it was decided to re-appraise the project.
Re-appraisal took place from January 28, 1990 to February 15, 1990.
Negotiations took place from May 14 to 16, 1990 in Brazzaville.
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      The People's Republic of the Congo is located across the Equator
in Central Africa.  With a total area of 342,000 km2, the Congo had an



- 2 -
estimated population of 2 million in mid-1988, growing at 3.4 percent per
annum. About 80 percent of the population lives in the five southern regions
which cover 25 percent of the land area. Urban areas, mainly the cities of
Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire, account for about 60 percent of the
population.  One third of the labor force depends on agriculture for its
livelihood, which is a much lower proportion than in most other African
countries.
2.02      A small, oil-producing country with an estimated per capita income
of $930 in 1988, the Congo is in the midst of a major economic and financial
crisis resulting from excessive public spending and borrowing in the late
1970s and early 1980s. With the 1986 collapse in oil prices and heavy debt
service commitments coming due, the Government's already difficult financial
situation has become extremely precarious.
2.03      Prior to Independence, Brazzaville was the administrative capital
of the French Federation of Equatorial African States (Afrique Equatoriale
Francaise - AEF) and the center for the region's major transport network,
including the Pointe-Noire/Brazzaville railroad (Chemin de Fer Congo - Oc6an-
CFCO) and a river transport system extending to neighboring countries. As
a result,  the Congo developed into the most prominent  service-oriented
economy in Africa (;0 percent of GDP).  The post-Independence period required
the Congo to adjust to its reduced role in the region. Forestry became the
most dynamic sector of the economy, contributing about 60 percent of total
exports in 1965. In the late 1960s, however, the country chose a development
strategy emphasizing government control over major economic activities,
giving rise to a large public enterprise sector and a strong bias in favor
of direct State intervention.  Oil exploitation started in the 1960s, and
became a dominant activity in the ')70s with the two major oil price
increases in 1973 and in 1979. The resultant oil rent enabled the Government
for years to subsidize the livelihood of a large part of the population
through public employment and to deliver free social services. In 1985, oil
accounted for about half of GDP, 90 percent of exports and nearly 70 percent
of budgetary receipts.
2.04      Since the early 1970s, the pace of economic activity in the Congo
has been determined by international oil prices.  The two major oil price
increases in the 1970s led to a considerable acceleration of GDP growth from
9 percent per annum on average in 1974-75 to 14 percent in 1980-82.  This has
been followed since 1983 by a contraction of economic activity. Meanwhile
the expansion of export revenue from $279 million in 1975 to $1,173 million
in 1985 was accompanied by a more rapid expansion of imports from $324
million to $1,385 million, resulting in a persistent deficit in the current
account balance during the 1975-85 period. But oil revenues encouraged false
hopes and wasteful policies.   By the end. of 1985, the Government was no
longer in a position to service its external debt amounting to about $1.8
billion (equivalent to 83 percent of GDP for that year).  The acute liquidity
crisis led the Government to launch its own adjustment program in June 1985
which aimed for the medium-term at adopting a policy framework for (a)
reestablishing macro-economic equilibrium; (b) laying the foundation for
sustained growth, with emphasis in particular on increasing opportunities in
the rural sector; (c) diversifying productive activities, especially in
forestry and agriculture; and (d) restoring international creditworthiness.



- 3 -
2.05      In early 1986, the Administration turned to the IMF for support and
a stand-by agreement was finalized in July 1986.  Debt rescheduling was
obtained under the auspices of the Paris and London Clubs in July and October
1986 respectively. In a.dition, the French Treasury in cooperation with the
French Aid Agency (Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration - FAC), and the French
Centrale Agency for Economic Cooperation (Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique - CCCE), approved a fast-disbursing loan of $35 million which was
followed by a Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I, Loan No. 2866-COB) of
$70 million  in July 1987.   The Bank  loan,  disbursed over 19M-89, has
supported the Congo's economic stabilization measures already in place and
helped initiate its medium-term adjustment program.   The latter aims at
restoring balance between the public and private sectors, to overcome severe
fiscal and economic imbalances and to foster growth in the non-oil sectors.
This program would be supported under a Secona Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL II, FY91) to be appraised by end-1991.
B.   The Agricultural Sector
1.   Main Features
2.06      Since 1979, the Congo's agricultural GDP has stagnated at about
CFAF 32 billion (in constant 1980 prices). As a result, its share of GDP,
which was about 15 percent,  declined to 8 percent in 1986.   These data
suggest that agricultural per capita incomes are only 25 percent of the
national  average  per  capita  income.    The  implied  rural/urban  income
differential, although somewhat exaggerated (the data does not account for
all subsistence production), has been large enough to contribute to the
present high level of urbanization and to the aging of the rural population.
It is estimated that the economically active rural population fell by 18
percent between 1972 and 1982. Presently, agriculture provides a livelihood
to only about a third of the national labor force. The composition of the
rural labor force has also drastically changed with women now representing
the backbone of the rural economy. The ratio of women to men is 70:30 for
those over 20 years of age, and more than half of households have only women
and children.   The low performance of the agricultural sector,  and its
decline relative to other economic sectors, have been the result of the
typical impact of an oil-based economy that led to policies discouraging
agricultural production and reducing rural incomes (para 2.12).
2.07      The potentially cultivable area is estimated at about 8.2 million
ha. However, only 250,000 ha are actually cultivated (3 percent of arable
land), of which 120,000 ha in the South. Much of the remainder lies under
tropical forest, and should not be cultivated if environmental degradation
is to be avoided. About 34 percent of total cropped area is planted with
cassava, 12 percent with other root crops, 12 percent with maize, ten percent
with bananas and plantains, six percent with groundnuts and four percent with
miscellaneous  food  crops  (notably  fruits,  vegetables  and  rice).   The
remaining 22 percent correspond to export crops on large plantations (12,000
ha of sugar cane and 7,000 ha of palm oil) and smallholder plantations of
cocoa (9,000 ha) and coffee (4.000 ha).



2.08      Very severe constraints affect the Congolese agriculture.  Fragile
soils with a low level of fertility, and aggressive rains causing enormous
losses through erosion and nutrient leaching make it quasi-impossible for
farmers to intensify and sedentarize their cropping activities without a
drastic change in their traditional cultivation methods.   Consequently,
shifting cultivation systems are still dominant, resulting in increased areas
of degraded herbaceous savanna and encroachment on tho rain forest.
2.09      The Congo is also endowed with considerable forest resources (60
percent of the national territory covered with mixed tropical forests).
Forestry, once the Congo's most dynamic sector, has been adversely affected
by inefficient public sector intervention.   Despite the mismanagement by
parastatals, the sector generates exports of wood products (about CFAF 20
billion p.a., or 10 percent of total) that are still second to crude oil
exports. A Tropical Forestry Action Program (TFAP) is being prepared with
Bank participation to address forestry sector problems.
2.10      Livestock,  especially  small  stock,  is  becoming  increasingly
importants   cattle  (27,000  head),  sheep  (85,000),  goats  (164,000)  and
poultry.   Fresh-water  fishing  and  fish  farming  are  other  agricultural
activities that play important nutritional roles in several regions of the
country.   Small  ruminants  and fish-farming  activities  relevant to the
national extension and research system would be supported under the project
(paras 3.33 to 3.38).
2.11      Agriculture is dominated by the smallholder sector which consists
of about 145,000 households, cultivating an average of 1.4 ha each. With an
active labor force of 360,000, smallholders produce most of the food crops,
and all of the coffee, cocoa and tobacco, on about 80 percent of the total
cropped area of the country.   They also produce all the fish coming from
rivers  and ponds.   State  farms, which have been the primary  focus of
government intervention until recently, still occupy 16 percent of
agricultural land, of which two percent is for food crops, and 14 percent for
sugar cane, tree crop plantations and ranches.  Private large farms which
were imnortant during the colonial era now occupy only about two percent of
total cropped area, and cooperative groups (1,100 representing 30,000
members) less than one percent.
2.   Government Agricultural Strategy
2.12      In the past, the Government of the Congo emphasized the development
of parastatals as a means of modernizing agriculture, to the detriment of
smallholder agriculture.  Most public investment was directed toward the
development of State farms. Parastatals had monopoly over the marketing of
agricultural production, as well as input supply (paras 2.33 and 2.35).
Extension services were almost non-existent (para 2.18) and agricultural
research was  neglected  (paras  2.22  and  2.23).   Investments  in  rural
ir.frastructure, especially rural roads, and their subsequent maintenance were
grossly inadequate. The above policies led to a continuous decline in food
production.    The  resulting food gap was  offset by food imports which
increased from 34,000 t in 1974 to about 90,000 t in 1988.  Should the
present trend continue, total food imports would further increase from CFAF



80 billion in 1988 to 120 billion in the year 2000. Such a course would be
unsustainable for the country in the long run.
2.13      The poor performance of the parastatals and their unsustainable
recurrent costs have led the Government to refocus its agricultural
development  strategy.    This was  signaled by the decision of National
Agricultural Council in November 1987 to approve a new strategy (a)
emphasizing the role of the Government as a facilitator/supportive agent
rather than a direct participant in productive activities; and (b) giving
priority to the smallholder sector.
2.14      Consistent with the SAL program,  the Government under the new
strategy has taken a series of policy measures aimed at eliciting a supply
response in the smallholder sector. These measures have primarily involved
liberalization of agricultural trade, in particular the suppression of the
marketing monopolies of the Office for Food Crops (Office des Cultures
Vivribres - OCV) and the Office for Coffee and Cocoa (Office du Cafe et du
Cacao - OCC) (para 2.33). Private traders have been allowed to operate in
competition with these agencies, and to freely negotiate prices with farmers.
The latter practice has also been adopted by OCC and OCV. In parallel, the
Government has started to disengage itself from the State farms arnd ranches.
These measures, together with actions designed to rehabilitate agricultural
services and facilities addressing the needs of small farmers, are being
reaffirmed in the context of the Medium-Term Economic and Social Action Plan
(Plan d'Action Economique et Social - PAES, 1990-94).  The SAL II program
under preparation would support measures and actions along the same policy
lines.
3.   Institutional Environment
2.15      Ministry of Youth and Rural Development (MJDR).   Rural sector
institutions were reorganized at the end of 1985 with the merging of the
former Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and the Ministry of Rural
Equipment and Cooperative Action, into the Ministry of Rural Development
(MDR).    Thereafter,  in August  1989,  the Government  undertook  another
reorganization whereby the MDR was entrusted the responsibility for youth
affairs, to become the present Ministry, of Youth and Rural Development
(MJDR). MJDR's rural development branch has thirteen technical directorates
(see Annex 1) amongst which (a) seven come directly under the Minister's
Cabinet, including the Directorate of Development Research, Training and
Extension (Direction de la Recherche Developpement, de la Formation et de la
Vulgarisation - DRDFV, see Annex 2) which is the principal project executing
structure, and the Directorates of Studies and Planning (Direction des Etudes
et de la Planification - DEP, see Annex 3) and Rural Radio (Direction de la
Radio Rurale - DRR) that would be supported under the project; and (b) six
coming under the Directorate General of Rural Development (Direction Gdn6rale
du Developpement Rural - DGDR) that would also receive support for technical
coordination of project activities related to small ruminants, fish farming
and specific cropping experiments.
2.16      Field  operations  are  organized  into  47  agricultural  sectors
corresponding to the 47 administrative districts of the Congo. The sectors
are grouped into 10 regions which are managed by Regional Directors of Rural



Development  (Directeur Regionaux du Developpement Rural - DRDRs).   Each
sector is headed by a Sector Head who oversees nine technical divisions
(Agricultural production; Livestock production; Credit and marketing;
Cooperatives; Fish production; Rural engineering, machinery and equipment;
Maintenance; and Village - centers. These divisions were set up in December
1988, following the National Agricultural Council's decision to decentralize
all field activities with attendant redeployment of plethoric headquarters
staff to field positions. The organizational chart of the regional and sector
services is presented in Annex 4.
2.17      MJDR maintains little real technical or financial control over
operations, due mainly to poor staff training and lack of means to carry out
operational work.   In addition,  financial management  at DRDR level  is
inadequate to control operations.   DRDR's staff,  in particular,  are not
sufficiently experienced to manage funds in accordance with generally
accepted  accounting  standards.   To  help  remedy  this  situation,  an
internationally-recruited financial management and accounting advisor,
financed under the first PPF, has already provided short-term technical
assistance in the establishment of satisfactory accounting procedures.
Further short-term consultancies of this type would be provided under the
proposed project, as part of the project's management support component
(paras 3.29 to 3.31).
2.18      The Extension  Service.   As  a result  of government  policies,
smallholders in the Congo have received limited extension services for over
20 years. These services were for export crops only, mostly provided by two
parastatals:   the Office for Coffee and Cocoa  (OCC) and the Office for
Tobacco (Office de la Culture du Tabac - OCT). The major staple crops of the
country, including cassava, other tubers, bananas and plantains, were
neglected. Other food crops, such as maize, rice, groundnuts, potatoes and
beans received some marketing assistance from the Office for Food Crops
(OCV), but had almost no extension support. Inputs provided by donors have
been restricted to enclave development projects which have had no significant
sustainable impact.  In 1987, the Government, parallel to its decision to
reorient agricultural development toward the smallholder sector, undertook
the transfer of all extension activities to MDR.  The extension service,
however, has remained ineffective for lack of a national strategy, poor
training, nonexistent linkages with research, and the absence of funding
other than for salaries. Another difficulty is the lack of funds for vehicle
operation and maintenance, and staff travel which oftentimes prevents staff
from undertaking field work. Also, the frequent requisition of vehicles by
local authorities results in work disruptions detrimental to effective field
work.
2.19      Faced with an inefficient extension service,  the Government in
early 1987 requested the Bank's assistance to prepare an extension and
adaptive research project.  For this purpose, with the help of a first PPF
advance and UNDP seed money, the Government initiated a Pilot Agricultural
Extension Project (Operation Pilote de Vulgarisation Agricole - OPVA) in May
1987. The pilot project covered 10 of the country's 47 districts, selected
in 5 of its 10 regions and representing an appropriate cross-section of
agro-ecological  and  social  conditions.   A  preliminary  survey  of  the
smallholder agricultural sector and existing extension systems undertaken



- 7 -
jointly  by  the  Government  and  the  Bank  indicated  that  substantial
improvements could be achieved by (a) more systematic planning and monitoring
of field agents; (b) improvement of the agents' technical and communication
skills; (c) better technical backstopping from supervisors; and (d)
strengthening of linkages between extension and research activities. These
objectives were to be achieved under the pilot project by introducing and
adapting the T&V system. The IFAD-financed Kindamba Area Development Project
(para 2.38) implemented beginning of 1988 has followed the same approach for
its extension component. The pilot project was to serve as basis to prepare
the proposed project.   Financing has been provided by the Bank (two PPF
advances of $750,000 each) and UNDP ($560,000 for technical assistance
provided by FAO).
2.20      The pilot project was launched without extensive preparation other
than basic training provided with Bank assistance.  So far, whilst it has
only been implemented over three cropping seasons, tangible results have been
obtained, inter alia: (a) adoption by all field staff of a time-bound work
program based on a bimon.hly schedule of fixed visits to groups of farmers;
(b) regular training sessions for all extension staff; (c) better links with
research; and (d) establishment by farmers of about 1,800 small adoption
plots to test the technical recommendations. These plots have of an average
size of 0.1 to 0.2 ha each and are established with the technical support of
extension agents. The technical recommendations tested are simple and do not
require an increased use of modern inputs to improve yields. Many farmers are
now applying these recommendations, and a positive impact can be seen in
their fields.
2.21      The results of the pilot project have demonstrated that it is
feasible to implement a nation-wide extension project.  Although limited,
the current stock of research data and experience is sufficient to allow
preparation of first generation extension messages relevant to smallholders'
farming systems. The national and regional management of MJDR has proven its
capability of executing an extension program based on the T&V system. This
system has  been adapted  to the Congolese  context.   The  pilot project
identified the importance of strengthening the adaptive research program and
of improving the technical and communication skills of field staff.   The
costs of the proposed project are based on the parameters established by the
pilot project, and benefits are extrapolated from observed farmers' responses
and yield increases.
2.22      Agricultural  Research   was  neglected  in  the  immediate  post-
Independence period from 1963 to 1976. Thereafter, limited activities were
resumed with French assistance. Particular attention was paid to the cassava
program backed by the Office for Scientific and Technical Research Overseas
(Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique d'Outre-Mer - ORSTOM) and
the forestry program backed by the Tropical Forestry Technical Center (Centre
Technique Forestier Tropical - CTFT). In other research areas, output has
been  negligible  largely  because  of  insufficient  funding.    Inadequate
planning, the lack of linkages with international and regional centers, the
absence of communication between research workers and extension staff, and
poor research facilities are other major constraints to agricultural
research.



2.23      Furthermore, agricultural research has been mostly carried out in
favorable areas like the Niari Valley, with a focus on individual crops.
Such research programs are not directly relevant to smallholders' farming
which is based on systems (mixed cropping, relay cropping, etc.) rather than
pure stands.   Also, these programs have never addressed in a systematic
fashion the issue of stabilizing traditional itinerant farming systems. This
issue is critical to maintain soil fertility and check environmental
degradation.
2,24      Agricultural  research presently falls  under the aegis  of the
Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education in charge of Scientific Research
(Ministere de l'Enseignement Secondaire et Sup6rieur, charge de la Recherche
Scientifique - MESS) and MJDR.   MESS concentrates on basic and applied
research, leaving adaptive research to MJDR. In addition, AGRICONGO, now a
private Congolese institute, performs adaptive research and development
activities on semi-urban farming systems.
2.25      MESS's  research program is carried out by:  (a) the Agronomic
Research Center of Loudima (Centre de Recherche Agronomique de Loudima -
CRAY..), specializing in cassava, maize and groundnuts; (b) ORSTOM, which
specializes in marine fishery, soil surveys and analysis, and entomological
and phytopathological research on cassava; (c) CTFT for forestry matters; and
(d) the Veterinary and Animal Science Research Center (Centre de Recherche
Veterinaire et Zootechnique - CRVZ) for livestock research.
2.26      MESS's research network consists of three substations located at
Kindamba and Odziba in the Pool region, and Ewo in the Cuvette region (Map
IBRD  No.  20853).   The  Kindamba  and  Odziba  substations  are  currently
strengthened under the IFAD-supported Kindamba Area Development Project. The
Ewo substation is not operational. MJDR's research program is carried out
by DRDFV through its research network presently consisting of five Technical
Support Centers (Centres d'Appui Techniques - CATs). This network would be
extended to twelve CATs under the project (para 3.13).
2.27      AGRICONGO was created in 1985 by GOC and ELF-Congo to contribute
to the national food self-sufficiency plan. At the end of 1989 it was
transformed into a private development institute. Its research program has
focussed on farming systems adapted to peri-urban areas.  This program has
already produced positive results which are being applied on several small
resettlement schemes near Brazzaville (in Kombe, near the river Djoue and at
PK45 on the Brazzaville-Owando road). Some research activities to be carried
out under the project would be executed by AGRICONGO under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank, in particular to capitalize on the results it has
obtained  concerning  vegetable  cropping  and  artisanal  processing  of
agricultural products.
2.28      Agricultural Education and Training.  Training at university level
is provided by the Rural Development Institute (Institut de Developpement
Rural) at the Marien N'Gouabi University, Brazzaville. This institute offers
a five-year degree program and a two-year associate degree program.
Intermediate level agricultural training is provided by the Amilcar Cabral
Agricultural School (Lycee Agricole Amilcar Cabral) and the National Water
and Forestry School (Ecole Nationale des Eaux et Fordts). Training for lower



- 9 -
level extension staff is carried out at agricultural colleges and at several
training  centers.   At  all  levels.  agriculture  curricula  are  highly
theoretical and of little relevance for field work.   The Rural Progress
Centers (Centres du Progres Ruraux - CPRs), financed by the French Fund for
Aid and Cooperation (Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation - FAC), offer a more
practical  curriculum with regular on-the-job training.   They have also
developed a three-year program for lower level extension staff and training
programs for young farmers. Under the project, considerable effort would be
made toward on-the-job training for all staff.  This would be supplemented
by external training of a specialized nature (paras 3.18 - 3.19).
2.29      Agricultural  Credit,  Marketing  and  Inputs.          Institutional
agricultural credit is rrovided by the National Development Bank of the Congo
(Banque Nationale de De,eloppement du Congo -BNDC), and the Mutual Credit
System (Mutuelles Congolaises d'Epargne et de Credit - MUCODECs). Mid-1989
a specialized institution (Credit Rural du Congo) was created to specifically
cater to the needs of the rural sector.   In addition to commercial and
industrial loans, BNDC used to provide financing to agro-industrial
enterprises and to state farms and ranches, mostly in the form of seasonal
credit and bridge loans.   Due to the economic crisis and the resultant
cutting back of the activity of parastatals as part of the reforms, BNDC
lending activities in the above sector have been drastically reduced.
2.30      The progressive development of the MUCODECs is positive on several
counts: (a) it constitutes a grassroots approach conducive to the effective
organization of the rural world; (b) the solidarity of MUCODEC members is a
strong guarantee of repayment--a factor which, when coupled with low
management costs, should ensure sustainability of the system; (c) the volume
of savings mobilized, which is already significant, attests to the borrowers'
commitment to this project; and (d) this type of financing has large
potential scope and could eventually lead to more important operations
through a Central Mutual Fund. The MUCODECs are presently assisted by the
French FAC in the district of Mindouli in the Pool region. IFAD, under its
proposed Marketing and Local Initiatives Promotion Project (para 2.34) would
provide support to MUCODECs in the Niari and Lekoumou regions. The MUCODECs,
however, even if they develop nationwide, would not be able to meet all the
financing needs of rural operators. Thus, the creation of other mechanisms
to channel larger scale financing for rural activities needs to be
considered.
2.31      The Credit Rural du Congo (CRC), created with German assistance,
is an agricultural bank whose activities are still incipient. The areas in
which it aims to intervene are: (a) marketing (loans for sales campaigns,
transport facilities, storage, wholesale and retail operations); (b)
production (low-risk and/or high pay-back activities, such as vegetable
growing, coffee, cocoa and cassava) and credit for inputs; (c) processing,
particularly that of a primary nature; and (d) handicrafts, small and medium-
scale enterprises, and rural housing.   CRC's headquarters are located in
Brazzaville and presently supported by two agencies being established in
Owando and Madingou.
2.32      The deployment of CRC's activities needs to be undertaken with
extreme caution, taking into account the recommendations prepared as part of



- 10 -
the program for the restructuring of the national banking system under SAL
II. CRC's proposed activities elicit reservations on the following counts:
(a) it is a parastatal bank, whose limitations. have been demonstrated by
numerous failures, in the Congo and other African countries, due to
prohibitive costs, a rigid structure that precludes contact with
beneficiaries and inefficient management, all of which is conducive to a
large volume of non-performing loans; (b) its envisaged operating
arrangements point to the need for substantial funding (capital, balancing
subsidies, salaries paid by the Government); and (c) its financial viability
-- based on a level of activity that would be difficult to sustain -- appears
overestimated.
2.33      Until  recently  State monopolies  played  an  important  role  in
agricultural marketing.   The main export crops  (coffee and cocoa) were
purchased and exported  exclusively  by OCC.   OCV exercised an official
monopoly on the marketing of groundnuts, maize, paddy, potatoes and beans.
These monopolies, however, were often circumvented by farmers who sold
directly to private merchants because OCC and OCV were inefficient and the
official pricing was unattractive. In 1987, OCV's and OCC's monopolies were
suppressed and prices liberalized.   The private sector which had always
handled the marketing of cassava, other root crops, bananas and plantains was
allowed to operate freely in competition with OCV and OCC for all crops. At
present, producer and consumer prices are determined competitively and vary
across  seasons  and  regions.   A potential  area  for  improvement  is the
processing of cassava which is a strenuous and time consuming task only
performed by women.
2.34      A major  obstacle  to  crop marketing  is  still  constituted  by
dilapidated roads and poor marketing networks. The poor state of rural roads
and the dispersion of the population result in high costs of marketing and
exclusion of certain areas from marketing circuits. Upgrading of the rural
roads network would be addressed under the Bank's Road Rehabilitation and
Maintei:.ance Project being re-appraised.   This project would incorporate a
rural roads component (para 2.39). The proposed IFAD-financed Marketing and
Local Initiatives Promotion Project would incorporate a program aimed at
improving the efficiency of the marketing network through village-level
facilities and support to small traders.  As a first step, its scope of
intervention be would be limited to the Niari and Lekoumou regions.
Preparation of this project is scheduled to be completed by end-1990; its
implementation is anticipated to start in early 1991. Marketing and roads
are important elements of the project supported by the European Development
Fund (EDF) which is due to start by end-1990 in the Pool and Cuvette regions.
In this latter region, EDF would co-finance the project's adaptive research
component (para 3.13).
2.35      Agriculture uses only limited quantities of modern agricultural
inputs in the Congo.  The major users of inputs are still State farms and
enterprises. Facilities to supply and distribute inputs to smallholders are
non-existent and demand is not sufficiently strong to stimulate private
sector  supply.    Smallholders  receive  only  cocoa  and coffee  seedlings
distributed by OCC, and small quantities of improved seeds from the National
Improved Seed Center (Centre National des Semences Ameliorees) at MJDR. A
pilot program for supplying inputs on a cash basis to smallholders is



- 11 -
underway within the IFAD-financed Kindamba Agricultural Development Project.
The proposed IFAD and EDF-supported projects also include input supply
components.
C.   Bank Sector Strategy
2.36      Since the Government clearly opted to place emphasis on agriculture
as part of the reforms since 1985, the Bank has proceeded to renew policy
dialogue in the sector. This was done first in the framework of SAL I (para
2.05) and resulted in policy measures aimed at liberalizing agricultural
pricing and marketing (para 2.14). The policy dialogue was pursued using the
Second Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 2753-COB, FY87) which financed
studies to improve knowledge of the agricultural sector, and the Public
Parastatal Reform Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 2868-COB, PY88) which
addressed management problems in agricultural and forestry parastatals.
2.37      In April 1989, with the participation of ~he French (CCCE and FAC)
and FAO, the Bank undertook a comprehensive Agricultural Sector Review. The
primary objective of the review was to examine the Government's strategy to
deal with the main constraints preventing the supply response in agriculture.
This resulted in agreement over a set of policy measures, inter-alia: (a)
retrenchment from State farms and ranches; (b) restructuring of the Office
of Coffee and Cocoa (OCC); (c) dismantling of the Office of Food Crops (OCV);
(d) restructuring of the forestry parastatals and the Congolese Office of
Wood (Office Congolais du Bois - OCB); (e) establishing an appropriate
institutional framework for rural credit; and (f) increasing selected tariffs
on food imports, consistent with policies effective in the Union of Central
African States (Union des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale - UDEAC). Programs of
action in support of these measures are now being prepared for inclusion into
SAL II (FY9lL) (para 2.05).
2.38      To date,  Bank  lending  to agriculture has  been  limited  to a
Livestock Development Project (Cr. 435-COB) completed in 1982. In forestry,
the Ouesso Wood Processing Project (Ln. 2298-COB) started in January 1984,
to promote integrated logging and wood processing operations. Since 1987,
two Bank PPF advances have contributed to finance the pilot project that
served to design the proposed project (para 2.19). In addition, since 1988,
the Bank is acting as executing agency for the IFAD-financed Kindamba Area
Development Project in the Pool region.   This project includes a multi-
faceted extension program involving not only crop development, but also
livestock and the formation of farmers' groups for marketing and processing
activities.
2.39      Given the recent favorable policy decisions, the Bank would support
the core public agricultural services of research and extension through the
proposed project. The context is also favorable becaus. the Government is
restructuring its agricultural portfolio to eliminate the less viable
projects, as recommended in the Bank's agricultural sector review. Beyond
helping rebuild extension and research (and other key complementary services)
under the present project, future Bank projects would support the
Government's efforts in the fields of rural infrastructure and environmental
management. In this regard, it has been decided to incorporate a rural roads
component in the proposed Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project



- 12 -
(FY91L) to address the rural transport constraint. This would be pursued on
a larger scale under the Transport Sector Prcject (FY93R). In parallel, a
Natural Resource Management Project (FY92R) was identified recently.   It
would focus on conservation of land and forest resources, within the
framework of a global plan for long-term natural resource management.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Rationale, Objectives and Summary Description
3.01      Rationale for IBRD Involvement.   The Government recognizes that
development of the smallholder agricultural sector is a key element of its
agricultural  development  policy.    Also,  as  part  of  the  SAL  program,
considerable progress has been made since 1986 -- through the implementation
of institutional, pricing and marketing reforms -- in reorienting
agricultural development policy toward smallholder agriculture. The
Government is now emphasizing the reorganization and strengthening of support
services, in particular the agricultural extension and adaptive research
system, to complement the policy measures aimed at promoting the agricultural
supply response  (para 2.14).   Such actions are, however,  constrained by
institutional weaknesses, shortage of funds and the need for Congolese staff
to develop the required expertise.
3.02      The Bank's involvement in the project is regarded by the Government
as necessary in helping develop a national extension and adaptive research
service. In the past, donors have focused on area-based services with
different  extension,  research,  credit  and  input  supply  systems.   The
donor-supported projects have proved unsustainable by the Government when
donor financing ended. By channeling donor resources into national programs
built around national institutions, the Government's capacity to sustain the
investments would be increased. The Bank has a long experience in developing
extension and research services in other countries. The project would build
upon existing institutions (para 2.15), available plant material and
technological improvements, and the ongoing pilot prr.4ect (paras 2.19 to
2.21). It would be the catalyst for mobilizing the contribution of several
donors. By helping to foster growth in a non-oil sector, the project would
also contribute to the objective of diversification of the sources of
economic growth which underlies the Structural Adjustment program (para
2.04).
3.03      Project Objectives and Description.  The primary objective of the
project is to support the Governm,ent's efforts to increase the production
efficiency and the income of small farmers, by facilitating the development
and dissemination  of relevant  agricultural  technology.    This would be
achieved through the establishment and subsequent strengthening of an
%ppropriate national system of extension and adaptive research.   Other
objectives are: (a) to promote coordination at field level of all technical
services that interface with the farmer, with a view to addressing in an
integrated fashion all relevant aspects of smallholder farming operations;
(b) to ensure close liaison with upstream research and other technical
services, so that extension and research activities can build fully on all



- 13 -
existing technical support; (c) to establish an extension and research system
responsive to farmers' needs, predominantly those of the two target groups
of women and youths that play a critical role in agricultural production; and
(d) to strengthen planning capabilities in the agricultural sector, so that
project operations and those of other agricultural projects are consistent
with policies and actions set forth under the national Public Investment
Program (PIP).
3.04      The project activities would be the first phase of a longer term
agricultural research and extension program that would aim at covering the
entire national  territory.   Project activities would take place  in 32
districts of the total 47 districts of the country. The districts which have
been selected are those districts that have sufficient agricultural potential
and accessibility, and are not covered separately by other projects (see para
3.06).
3.05      To achieve its objectives, the project would implement over a five-
year period: (a) core components: extension, adaptive research, and training
and  rural  promotion;  (b)  support  actions:  monitoring  and  evaluation,
management, and extension support in the fields of small ruminants and fish
farming;  and  (c) an agricultural planning component.   Details on these
components are given below.
B.   Detailed Features
1.   Agricultural Extension
3.06      The project would organize and strengthen the extension service by
supporting and gradually expanding the Pilot Agricultural Extension Operation
(OPVA) from 10 to 32 of the 47 districts of the country. 24 districts would
be covered by the end of the second project year.  The districts selected
cover the main arable areas of the Congo where about 60 percent of the rural
population lives. The country's remaining districts would be covered under
the planned follow-up pro,ect.   They have been excluded from the present
project because of access problems and extremely low population densities,
especially in the Cuvette and Sangha regions. In addition, in some of these
districts, other projects exist that already provide support to extension.
Project activities in the three districts of the Likouala region, which is
crossed by numerous waterways, would be limited to areas accessible by road.
Details on population by district, staff participation, and phase-in of the
extension program are presented in Annex 4 (see also IBRD Map No. 21133).
Staff requirements for the program can be met with existing staff, but
substantial retraining and staff redeployment would be required (para 3.18).
The phasing of the extension program has been designed to permit such a
training, especially for the field extension agents (Encadreurs de base -
EBs, and supervisors) whose number would increase from about 110 (presently
part of the pilot project) to about 410 over the project period.
3.07      The reorganization of the extension services would be carried out
following the basic principles of the T&V system (paras 4.02-4.05). Under
the pilot project, the national staff, with external assistance, has tailored
this system to the circumstances prevailing in the Congo.  The principles
that have been tested and have proven successful are inter-alia:



- 14 -
(a) establishing and adopting a detailed, time-bound and closely monitored
work program for all extension staff; (b) training staff at all levels on a
regular and continuous basis; and (c) strengthening links with research.
3.08      The agricultural extension services would aim, based on contact
with selected farmer groups, at disseminating technical recommendations
tailored to the needs of farmers in each area. Extension advice would, at
the beginning, concentrate on _mple, low cost/low risk farming practices
which have proven to yield substantive results.   Improved practices would
be introduced on small plots and/or would concern a minute fraction of
farmers' productive activities.   Gradually, the technical recommendations
would be modified and expanded to cover the most important aspects of farming
operations.
3.09      The project would continue financing for two years the position of
an internationally-recruited Extension Specialist already filled since May
1987 under the pilot project. This position would be co-financed by UNDP and
the Bank under a Cost-Sharing Agreement to be signed between GOC and UNDP,
with FAO as executing agency (para 3.15). The signing of the above Cost-
Sharing Agreement would be a condition of Loan effectiveness (para 6.02(a)).
Terms of Reference for the above position are at Annex 5. The expert would
provide specific support to extension activities. He would also be in charge
of assisting in overall project operational management.   He would give
priority to on-the-job training of national staff. In PY2, he would be also
in charge of assisting in the preparation of the project's Mid-Term
Evaluation (para 4.16).   In addition to the above resident position, the
project would fund four person-months of short-term consultancies to assist
extension staff once the resident expert has departed.
3.10      The project would provide vehicles for high level staff (DRDFV
Director,  Extension  Service  Chief,  Regional  Directors,  Subject  Matter
Specialists), and motorbikes and mopeds for field staff (supervisors and
extension agents).   It would finance on a declining basis the vehicles
operating costs and staff travel allowances to ensure staff mobility.
Extension agents would also be provided with a small amount of demonstration
and measuring equipment.  Field staff would contribute to the cost of the
mopeds in 24 equal monthly installments deducted from their payroll. Their
contribution would be equivalent to the residual value of the mopeds after
two years, estimated at 50 percent of the purchase price. To this effect,
DRDFV has established a moped revolving fund on which the monthly
installments are deposited.  Proceeds of this fund are to be used only to
extend credit to field staff for acquisition of new mopeds. The fund thus
far is managed in a satisfactory manner.
2.   Adaptive Research
3.11      The adaptive research program would tailor broad-based findings
from applied research to the requirements of more location-specific agro-
ecological and/or social environments. Under the project, adaptive research
would be performed both on farmers' fields and using a network of Technical
Support Centers (Centres d'Appui Technique-CATs). Major emphasis would be
given to on-farm research conducted in farmers' fields with the active
participation of farmers at all stages of the research process (diagnosis,



- 15 -
planning, design, experimentation and validation). Information generated by
on-farm research would help establish broad priorities for experimental work
under controlled conditions. CATs would be used to carry out such research
work, and as training/demonstration centers for field staff and farmers.
Finally, adaptive research would support programs aimed at improving its own
knowledge  on  specific  topics.    The  technical  diagnosis  and  the main
orientations underpinning the project's research program are presented in
Annex 6.  Details on the research actions are given in paras 3.12 to 3.1.5
below, and in Annex 7.
3.12      On-farm research under the project would consist in assiting MJDR's
technical staff at district level to formulate and manage with farmers and
extension staff the field trials planned as part of the Ministry's adaptive
research program. The execution of these trials would be supervised by the
subject matters  specialists posted at regional  level  (para 4.07).   The
project would finance the incremental expenditures necessary to carry out
the trials.
3.13      The project would continue developing the network of CATs.   It
would finance in total the creation of twelve CATs amongst which five are
already at various degrees of completion under the pilot project (in the
districts of Sibiti, Owando, les Saras, Ewo and Mindouli). A CAT averages
about 10 ha and is provided with small office, storage and housing
facilities.   The following activities would be undertaken in the CATs: Ca)
a collection of varieties of the main crops would be tested and kept; these
varieties would also be managed following the husbandry practices recommended
to farmers, for training and demonstration purposes; and (b) fertility
management techniques would be tested with a view to lengthening cropping
cycles under smallholder farming conditions, e.g., cover crop and legume
fallow included in rotations, application of minimal amounts of critical
inputs such as lime or phosphate, mulching techniques from cover crops or
perennials, alley cropping techniques, etc.    The project would fund the
operating costs of the twelve CATs over the five-year project period.  The
EDF-assisted Rural Development Project would co-finance the establishment of
CAT facilities and their operating costs in the Cuvette region.
3.14      The project would also finance specific research programs to be
carried out by other research institutions (paras 2.24 to 2.27) under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.  These programs would concern inter
alia: (a) agronomic aspects of rotations and fertility conservation, as well
as plant breeding and multilocal trials carried out on the CATs;   (b)
intensive farming systems supported by mechanization; these systems could
thereafter be tested and developed on small farms in the Niari Valley and on
the  Bateke  Plateau;  (c)  vegetable  cropping,  home  gardening  and  crop
processing; and (d) the management of rotations, including legume fallow and
cover crops, and various soil and water conserving technologies. The trials,
carried out on plots bigger than those of the CATs, would help investigate
how to manage these techniques, and anticipate possible bottlenecks that may
hamper their development at farm level.
3.15      Finally, the project would provide technical assistance for overall
support to the component.  It would continue to finance for two years the
position of internationally-recruited Adaptive Research Specialist that has



- 16 -
been filled since August 1988 by an FAO expert. The specialist would assist
in the establishment and management of the CATs, and in the follow-up of
tasks sub-contracted externally. He would place special emphasis on the on-
the-job training of national staff, so that they be technically equipped to
pursue the program once he has departed.   In addition, the project would
continue funding for a year the position of Research Technician filled by
a United Nations  Volunteer.    This  position  and the Adaptive  Research
Specialist's position, would be part of the Cost-Sharing Agreement for
provision of technical assistance for adaptive research and extension, to be
signed between GOC and UNDP, with FAO as executing agency (para 3.09).
Finally, the project would fund ten person-months (two per year) of short-
term consultancies to help collect the data and prepare the first generation
extension messages required to establish and implement the adaptive research
program. Terms of reference for the resident TA positions are at Annex 5.
3.   Training and Rural Promotion
3.16      Training.   The project's training component would aim at:   (a)
improving the technical and managerial expertise of staff at all levels, so
that they can effectively manage the extension and the related services; (b)
developing specifically the educational and communication skills of trainers
and fields agents, so that they be able to effectively interface with
farmers, both to deliver the technical messages and provide feedback from the
grassroots; and (c) strengthening the operational capacity the Training
Service of the Directorate of Development Research, Training and Extension
(DRDFV) to ensure adequate programming and implementation of the project's
training activities, and their sustainability thereafter.
3.17      DRDFV staff working under the pilot project have already received
an initial training that has enabled them to get acquainted with the new
extension system.   This training has consisted of a three to five day
orientation provided by DRDFV headquarters staff with the assistance of the
resident expert in charge of extension. This orientation training would be
pursued systematically, as the project's geographic coverage gradually
expands and new staff are brought into the extension system.
3.18      In addition to the training received through visiting missions and
the on-the-job coaching provided by the resident experts, the core project
training activities would emphasize (a) permanent in-service tra:ning for
extension agents along the principles of the T&V system (para 4.05); and (b)
periodic refresher and specialized training targeted to medium level and
senior staff. The in-service training would include inter-alia fortnightly
and monthly specialized workshops by subject matter specialists (Techniciens
Specialises).   Periodic training activities would be undertaken through a
variety of means, including (a) technical workshops on various project-
related topics,  such as general administrative and financial management,
accounting procedures, management of adaptive research, media communication,
monitoring and evaluation, etc.; (b) courses on specialized subjects, e.g.
soil and moisture conservation, plant protection, farming systems, etc.; (c)
study tours abroad to benefit from the experience of other countries
(preferably in the sub-region); and (d) limited short-term overseas training
aimed at upgrading the managerial, technical and communication skills of
staff.



- 17 -
3.19      Under the project, provision would be nade to fund the seminars,
workshops, overseas visits and training sessions envisaged as part of the
above  training  activities.    In  addition,  the  project  would  finance
appropriate office and educational equipment, vehicles and incremental
operating costs for DRDFV's Training Service. Finally, porvision would be
made for 16 person-months of short-term consultants to assist the Training
Service in the planning, execution and monitoring of training activities.
These consultants would also cover assistance to rural promotion activities
and use of the media.
3.20      Detailed training arrangements are given in Working Paper No. 2.
At negotiations, the main orientation of the training program for PY1 were
agreed with the Government.  Assurances were obtained that, by June 30 of
every calendar year, DRDFV would submit an action plan for staff training as
part of the annual work program and budget for the following year (para
3.55).
3.21      Rural Promotion.  Promotion activities are meant to (a) mobilize
and organize farmers into cooperative groups; (b) assist in the functioning
of these groups for the purpose of input supply, production activities,
marketing  and  processing;   and  (c)  support  the  implementation  of
savings/credit systems.   They also aims at raising farmers' capacity to
absorb technical messages and at facilitating the adoption of new
technologies. They are undertaken as integral part of extension activities.
Rural promotion activities under the project would be implemented on a pilot
basis and would focus on women and youths.   They would consist of (a)
providing extension support to productive activities of interest to women and
youths,  that can serve as a basis to establish production groups;   (b)
implementing a functional literacy program; and (c) preparing studies,
organizing seminars/conferences on women and youth matters and developing
communications  media.    In  the  Niari  and  L6koumou  regions,  promotion
activities would be undertaken in close liaison with the proposed IFAD
Marketing and Local Initiatives project.
3.22      To implement the above component, the Extension Service would be
strengthened by the addition in five pilot regions, of one subject matter
specialist for rural promotion (Technicien Sp6cialis6 de Promotion Rurale,
paras 4.11 and 4.12). This subject matter specialist would oversee a dozen
or so contract farmers (paysans contractuels,  para 4.13).   His/her work
program would be initially established, and subsequently revised yearly, on
the basis of background studies aimed at assessing the need of the two target
groups of women and youths. This program would complement, and be undertaken
in close liaison with, those of the other rpeional subject matter specialists
serving agriculture. It would emphasize any activities of specific interest
to women and youths that can serve as the basis to promote the emergence of
grassroots work groups, e.g. transport and marketing activities, processing
of agricultural products, home gardens, vegetable growing, fruit production,
etc. The project would finance a four-wheel-drive vehicle, motorcycles and
office equipment to equip the Rural Promotion Service, and its incremental
operating expenditures over the project period; in addition, it would fund
16 person-months of specialized short-term consultancies, ten of which would
be provided by national consultants firms.



- 18 -
3.23      The functional  literacy and communications  campaigns would be
prepared by specialized consultants, and executed by Rural Radio Directorate.
The project would finance two person-months of short-term consultancies in
PYl  to prepare  an operational  program  for  such  campaigns.    It would
subsequently  provide  the  Rural  Radio  Directorate  with  moLorcycles,
communications equipment and funding for incremeentai operating expenditares,
reittired for implementation of the above program.  Activities envisaged as
part of this sub-component would he undertaken in close liaison with the
IFD-.financed Marketing and Local Initiatives Proiect.  This project woald
incorporate a resident technical expert to assist in the admii1nistra?.ion of
the literacy campaign in the Niari and Lekoumou regions.
3.24      Project promotional activities will only have a positive impact if
they eventually lead to the development by farmers of viable economic
activities. In this perspective, close liaison would be maintained with the
MUCODECs system which provides farmers the required credit facilities to
embark on production activities.   In the Niari and Lekoumou regions, the
MUCODECs would be assisted by IFAD for this purpose.
3.25       As part of rural promotion acti-ities,  resources would also be
provided to hold a yearly seminar on Women in Development (WID) and youth
matters, to prepare studies on these topics, and to undertake study tours to
facilitate exchange of views (a) between regions within the Congo; and (b)
abroad with neighboring countries having experience of this kind of program.
Also, the media would be developed as a specialized tool to assist rural
promotion and training activities.  Actions related to media would aim at
identifying, developing and/or adapting a wide range of printed and audio-
visual material suitable as communications and training devices fo.: extension
activities.   They would also aim at developing national expertise in the
field of communications and the media for extension purposes.   To this
effect, the Rura' Promotion Service would be provided with five person-mor.ths
of specialized short-term consul-ancies and specialized equipment, including
audio-visual equipment, teaching aids, technical documents, etc.
4.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
3.26      M&E activities would aim at providing project management with
(a) permanent information on the execution of adaptive research and extension
activities, with appropriate analysis of implementation problems; and (b)
periodic evaluation of the project's impact on the increase in agricultural
production.   As part of monitoring activities all data prepared by the
adaptive research and extension system staff would be systematically
collected and processed, with a view to producing appropriate information on
key management indicators. Under evaluation activities, a series of surveys
would be undertaken amongst the target population (smallholders, with focus
on women and youths) to determine the rate of adoption of new technologies,
as a means to assess the project's impact on production. These surveys would
have as objectives to (a) first establish the characteristics of the "pre-
project" situation; (b) thereafter, follow periodically a number of key
parameters that would enable to assess the impact of the project on
production, and ultimately the "post-project" situation; and (c) undertake
special investigations on the origin and causes for recorded results.



- 19 -
3.27      As part of the pilot project, a Monitoring and Evaluation Service
(Service de Suivi/Evaluation) has been established within the Directorate of
Development Research, Training and Extension (DRDFV). It is not yet fully
operational. This service would be staffed at the central level by the Chief
of Service (already in post) and by two Division Chiefs in charge of
analytical methods And of data collection and processing respectively. At
the local level, an enumerator would be posted in each of the regions covered
by the project.   This enumerator would have the rank of a subject matter
specialist and would be part of the team of subject matter specialists
located at the regional directorates of rural development.  He/she would work
in close liaison with the regional Planning and Studies Service which wouid
be supported under the project's planning component (para 3.40).
3.28      Under the M&E component, the project would provide eight person-
months of specialized short-term consultancies to assist in the planning and
implementation of the proposed M&E activities.  It would also finance one
vehicle at central level, one motorcycle for each enumerator at regional
level, office and data processing equipment, and the operating expenditures
of the M&E Service during the project period. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the enumerators would be selected and deployed in the field
no later than June 30, 1991 (para 6.01 (f)).
5.   Management Support
3.29      This component is designed to strengthen the administrative and
financial management capacity, primarily of the Logistics Service of the
Directorate of Development Research, Training and Extension (DRDFV), and of
the General Directorate of Rurel Development (Direction Generale de
D6veloppement Rural-DGDR).   The objective is that project operations be
effectively managed, and, subsequently, that management be sustained in the
long run. This would be achieved by (a) providing short-term consultancies
to  help  establish,  and  subsequently  apply,  appropriate  financial  and
accounting procedures, and carry out the required financial audits; and (b)
furnish the necessary equipment and office facilities.
3.30      The visiting experts program would consist of approximately two
person-months of consultancies yearly to assist in financial management, and
one person-month yearly for external audit purposes.  Also, in view of the
complexity of the project, five person-months of short-term consultancies
(one per annum) have been provided to enable DRDFV to capitalize on
supervision tasks undertaken by the Bank and the co-financiers, and to
gradually strengthen its own project supervision capacity.
3.31      The project would provide for (a) refurbishing of office space; (b)
acquisition of office equipment, supplies and vehicles; and (c) funding of
DRDFV's and DGDR's incremental operating expenditures. DRDFV's office space
requirements are estimated at around 280 m2 for its central staff at
headquarters in Brazzaville who number approximately 35 persons. These staff
are presently located with the other MJDR's central staff, in total office
space of only 120 m2.   Since no additional office  space is presently
available at MJDR's central building, DRDFV would have to be relocated.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that DRDFV would be relocated in
premises satisfactory to the Bank no later than June 30, 1991 (para 6.01



- 20 -
(a)). Other facilities provided as part of the component include two four-
wheel-drive vehicles (one for DRDFV and one for DGDR), office furniture and
equipment (including telecommunications equipments: additional telephone
lines, telex and fax). Incremental operating expenditures, including office
supplies, allowances, subsistence expenses during missions, and salaries of
contractual staff, would also be funded under the project.
3.32      To date project vehicles have been frequently requisitioned by
local authorities for purposes not related to project implementation (para
2.18). In order to prevent further violation of this standard covenar;t (see
the General Conditions for Bank loans and credits), the Government has now
taken appropriate measures to prohibit the use of goods acquired under the
project for purposes not related to the execution of the project.
6.   Other Extension Support
3.33      Small Ruminants.  Raising small ruminants is an activity that has
potential in the Congo. It is likely to be readily pursued by smallholders
as part of their traditional production systems, as it requires limited
capital and produces results in the short-to-medium term.   With view to
supporting this activity, the project would include two types of actions:
(a) a specialized extension activity aimed at demonstrating basic techniques
to improve the productivity of small ruminants; and (b) a fattening program
designed to assist small farmers who wish to embark on improved sheep-
raising activities.   Subject matter specialists specialized in livestock
activities (Techniciens Specialises de Productioni Animale) would be given
responsibility to implement the above actions.   One such subject matter
specialist would be posted in each region that has potential for raising
small ruminants.
3.34      The specialized extension program would concern mostly sheep.
Under this program the extension agents, guided and assisted by the livestock
subject matter specialists, would (a) sensitize village communities on the
problem of animal wandering; (b) carry out, with selected farmers,
demonstrations whereby a few animals would be penned, and properly fed and
watered, to emphasize the beneficial effects of such improved practices on
lowering mortality of the young animals and increasing weight gains of the
adult animals being fattened; and (c) assist farmers who wish to pursue this
line of activity, so that it can be gradually integrated into larger
production systems (starting with home gardens) to capitalize on the use of
the manure produced in the pens.
3.35      The sheep fattening program would be organized in liaison with the
Small Ruminant Center at Inoni-Falaise.  The project would acquire a feeder
flock of about 200 improved animals that would be branded and kept by the
Inoni-Falaise Center.   The increase in the feeder flock would serve to
constitute  small flocks at farm level  (one male and 5 to 10 females).
Traditional animals brought in by farmers would be swapped against improved
animals  from  the  feeder  flock.    The  project  would  also  finance  the
acquisition at regional level of revolving stocks of basic veterinary and
mineral products.  These would be managed by the livestock subject matter
specialist under financial supervision of the regional financial and
administrative services. These products would be sold in cash to farmers so



- 21 -
that there be sufficient financial resources to replenish the stocks
regularly. The livestock subject matter specialist would train the extension
agents so that they acquire and pass on to farmers the basic techniques
required to tend the newly-formed animal flocks, with emphasis on respecting
minimal feeding, health and hygiene standards.
3.36      The project would finance a contract with the Inoni-Falaise CenteI
providing for (a) the acquisition of the feeder flock of animals and their
upkeep;  (b)  the training of livestock  subject matter  specialists  (two
training sessions yearly); (c)  the construction of a sinall ruminants sub-
center near Madingou and the refurbishing cf the Makoua Sub-Center, both
coming under the Inoni-Falaise Center; (d) the acquisition of two four-
wheel-drive pick-ups to transport animals; and (e) the incremental operating
costs of the Inoni-Falaise Center and of the two sub-centers. Funds required
to carry out these activities would be made available on the basis of a
contract satisfactory to the Bank entered between the Government and the
Inoni-Falaise Center.
3.37      Fish Farming.  This activity has potential in many parts of the
Congo and would be supported under the project since (a) it can bring
substantive additional income to small farmers because fish is in high demand
on local markets; and (b) it can even become a full-time line of work for
selected farmers giving attractive returns.  In line with actions already
initiated as part of pilot project, the project would emphasize the
dissemination of technical themes aimed at promoting semi-intensive small-
scale fish farming, including identification of favorable sites, construction
of ponds,  feeding and selection of fish, etc.   These themes have been
developed by MJDR's technical services, partly under the UNDP-financed
Smallholder Fish Breeding project headquartered at Djoumouna and covering the
Pool and Bouenza regions. Extension activities concerning fish farming would
be undertaken by extension agents assisted by specialized subject matter
specialists (Techniciens Specialises Piscicoles) who would form an integral
part of the extension system.  One such subject matter specialist would be
posted in each of the regions with favorable potential for fish farming.
3.38      In addition to the incremental expenditures  of the Extension
Service arising from the activity of the subject matter specialists, the
project would fund a contract with the Djoumouna Fish Breeding Station,
designed to (a) train the subject matter specialists who would gradually be
deployed in the regions covered by the project; (b) equip and provide
operating means to a team of two technicians who would prospect sites for
farmers; (c) renovate and equip a sub-station in the district of Ewo, and
provide for its incremental operating expenditures over the project period.
This sub-station would supply technical assistance and inputs (in particular
fingerlings) to the project areas North of Brazzaville; and (d) provide
specialized equipment (in particular tanks and oxegenators) and one four-
wheel-drive pick-up to carry fingerlings from the fish-breeding stations to
the farmers' ponds, arnd a small vehicle for liaison purposes. Funds required
to carry out these activities would be made available on the basis of a
contract satisfactory to the Bank entered between the Government and the
Dioumouna Fish-Breeding Station.



- 22 -
7.   Agricultural Planning
3.39      This component aims at strengthening MJDR's strategic planning
capability.    The  planning  function  is of particular  importance  as an
instrument for MJDR to (a) articulate its agricultural development strategy,
(b) specify and implement appropriate projects in support of its strategy;
and (c) ensure the required interface with the Ministry of Planning and
Economy, and the other technical ministries as part of the national planning
process. MJDR's planning function is entrusted to the Directorate of Studies
and Planning  (DEP)  (pare 2.15).   Under  the UNDP-financed Agricultural
Planning Support Project implemented since mid-1988, the DEP's operational
capacity has progressed significantly, especially in the areas of macro-
economic planning, cost-benefit analysis, monitoring and evaluation, and
sectoral studies.   Continued assistance  is required for DEP to further
strengthen its capacity.
3.40      For the benefit of DEP's central office and its regional branches,
the project would finance (a) training activities, including seminars and
short-term internships (both in the Congo and abroad), to improve the
technical expertise of staff; (b) two person-years of resident technical
assistance; (c) the purchase and operating costs of two four-wheel-drive
vehicles, as well as incremental expenditures for operational travel, to
support field work; and (d) the acquisition of office and computing
equipment, with a view in particular to establishing operational data bases
to monitor and evaluate existing projects.
3.41      The resident technical advisor to be recruited for two years would
have expertise in the following areas (a) macro-economic planning; (b) cost-
benefit analysis; (c) monitoring and evaluation; and (d) sectoral studies
(see terms of reference in Annex 5). Additionally, he/she would contribute
to the establishment of, and provide subsequent management assistance for,
the Documentation Division recently created within DEP. The formal training
activities in the form of seminars, conferences and workshops, etc., would
complement the daily on-the-job coaching provided by the resident advisor
to DEP's counterpart staff.  The project would provide the above technical
assistance over a two year period as part of a Cost-Sharing Agreement between
GOC and UNDP, with funds from the Bank Loan being disbursed in PY1 and UNDP
funds being disbursed in PY2. Signing of this Agreement would be a condition
of Loan effectivennes (see para 6.02 (b)). This arrangement would maintain
the required continuity in assisting DEP, with in particular FAO continuing
to act as executing agency for the program. At the end of PY2, as part of
the project Mid-Term Evaluation, the opportunity of extending the Cost-
Sharing Agreement would be examined. In order for DEP to take advantage of
the assistance provided under the project and increase its work efficiency,
the Government would provide it with an additional 60 m2 of office
facilities, as its present office space is grossly insufficient. This would
not be financed under the project.



- 23 -
C. Project Costs and Financing
1.   Cost Estimates
3.42       The total cost of the proposed project over the 1991-95 period,
including all incremental capital and recurrent expenditures, is estimated
at CFAF 6.2 billion (US$21.7 million), of which CFAF 3.5 billion (USS12.1
million) or 56Z of total cost in foreign exchange, and about CFAF 180 million
(US$635,000) or 3Z in taxes and duties.
3,43       Base costs have been estimated at February 1990 prices using the
rate of exchar.ge prevailing at that date (CFAF 285 to the US dollar).
Physical contingencies have been allowed on investment and operating costs,
except for technical assistance, PPF-financed activities and staff salaries.
The average  physical  contingency  amounts  to 5.1Z of base costs.   Price
contingencies have been applied to base costs over an estimated
implementation period of five years  (1991-1995).   Price contingencies on
foreign exchange costs based on the Bank's projections of international price
increases have been included at an average of 4.9Z from 1991 to 1995. Price
contingenciee on local costs are based on annual price increases of 7Z for
1991 and 1992, and 5Z thereafter Go reflect current inflation trends in the
Congo. Total price contingencies amount to 25.9Z of base costs.
3.44       Project costs are summarized below, and detailed estimates for each
component given in Annex 8 and Working Paper No. 6.
Project Cost Summary
Local   Foreign   Total     Local Foreign Total     X Foreign    X Total
------(CFAF million)        ---(USS million)---      Exchang!    B. Costs
A. Agricultural Extension       976.1   1,103.3  2,078.4     3.6   3.8    7.3         53.1       43.8
B. Adaptive Research            498.4     607.7  1,006.1     1.8   1.7    3.6         50.5       21.2
C. Training A Rural Promotion   286.1     347.7    633.8     1.0   1.2    2.2         64.9       13.4
D. Monitoring A Evaluation       97.6     106.3    203.8     0.3   0.4    0.7         62.2         4.3
E. Management Support           239.0     189.9    428.9     0.8   0.7    1.6         44.3        9.0
F. Other Extension Support
1. Small Ruminants     102.9      66.9    168.8      0.3   0.3    0.6        35.2         3.4
2. Fish Farming         42.3      32.7      76.0     0.1   0.2    0.3        43.7         1.6
Sub-Total              146.2     W88.      233.8     0 4   07 T              I"            n
0. Agricultural Planning         29.7     126.6    165.2     0.1   0.4    0.6         80.3        3.3
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS          2,271.0   2,469.0  4,740.0     7.9   8.7   16.6         62.1       100.0
Physical Contingencies    86.3    164.1    239.4     0.3   0.6    0.8        64.4         4.8
Price Contingencies     378.8     828.0  1,204.6     1.4   2.9    4.3        88.7        26.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           2,732.9   3,451.1  6,184.0     9.6  12.1   21.7         66.8      130.7
(including taxes)
2.   Financing
3.45      Project  costs would be borne by co-financiers  in the  following
amounts and proportions.



- 24 -
Financing Plan by Category of Goods and Sorvices
IBRD   UNDP   EDF    QOVT TOTAL   FOR.   LOCAL   DUTIES A
EXC4   (Exci   TAXES
Taxes)
----(-U--------------------(uS million)----------------------------
A. Civil Works              1.1    0.0   0.8    0.0   1.4    0.7   0.7          0.0
S. Vehileos                 3.9    0.0   0.0    0.0   8.9    S.7   0.2          0.0
C. Technical Assist.        2.6    0.9   0.0    0.0   a.6   386    0.0          0.0
D. Equipment                0.7    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.7    0.6   0.1          0.0
E. Training                0.9    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.9    0.8    0.6          0.0
F. Research Support        0.7    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.7    0.8   0.4           0.0
0. Operating Costs         4.4    0.0   0.2    4.6   9.1    2.8   6.2           0.6
H. PPF                      1.6    0.0   0.0    0.0   1.6    0.8   0.7          0.0
Financing Roquiroments     15.8    0.9   0.6    4.6  21.7    12.1   9.0         0.6
Share of Financing        --------------------------------X----------------------------------
With Taxes              73.0    4.1   2.3   20.6 100.0    66.7  41.6    2.8
Without Taxes           76.0    4.2   2.4   18.4 100.0    67.8   42.7         -
3.46     The proposed loan of US$15.8 million would finance about 75Z of
project costs (net of taxes).  The Government's financial contribution to the
project would include 100% of taxes and duties, and recurrent expenditures
on an increasing basis starting at 202 in PY1 and reaching 70% in the last
year of the project (para 3.52). Yearly allocations by the Government to the
project to meet recurrent expenditures and taxes commitments would be based
on annual work plans and cost estimates of work prepared by the Directorate
of Development Research, Training and Extension (DRDFV).
3.47     To facilitate project implementation, the Government would open a
Special Account in a banking institution, and under terms and conditions,
acceptable to the Bank. After Loan effectiveness and upon the Government's
request, the Bank would deposit in the Special Account an amount of
US$300,000 to finance project expenditures. Thereafter, the Special Account
would be replenished regularly whenever its total has decreased by more than
US$100,000. Should any disbursements be made from the Special Account for
ineligible expendituree, the Government would be required to replenish the
Account in the corresponding amount, or reimburse said amount to the Bank.
3.48     To assure adequate and timely provision of counterpart funds, the
Government would open a Project Account with a banking institution, and under
terms and conditions, acceptable to the Bank.   It would deposit in this
account an initial amount of CFAF 100 million equivalent to about half of its
financial contribution for PY1 (Annex 9).  Opening of the Project Account
and deposit of the initial amount would be a condition of effectiveness (para
6.02(c)). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that funds corresponding
to the Government counterpart financing of the project would be budgeted
yearly in appropriate amounts and subsequently deposited quarterly in advance
in the project account (para 6.01 (b)). These amounts would be used only for
the purpose of the project.



- 25 -
3.49     Project Preparation Facility.  Two PPF advances of US$750,000 each
were awarded to the Government for project preparation and start-up
activities (para 2.38). The PPFs have been used specifically under the pilot
project (para 2.19) to: (a) carry out training of project staff; (b) start
pilot extension activities in five regions; (c) build up implementation
capacity through provision of technical assistance, vehicles, equipment and
operating costs; (d) establish adequate accounting procedures; and (f)
finance preparation reports by independent consultants. The total amount of
US$1.5 million would be refinanced upon effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.
3.  Procurement
3.50     Unless otherwise indicated, all goods and services financed by IBRD
under the project would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. For
items financed by cofinanciers, procurement would be in accordance with the
cofinanciers' guidelines. Civil works for the construction of the CATs are
too small, too scattered geographically and too spread over time to be
suitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts for these
constructions aggregating to US$1.1 million would therefore be awarded
through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures, which have been reviewed
and are acceptable to the Bank.   Contracts for the procurement of goods
valued at US$200,000 equivalent or more would be procured through ICB. Such
contracts would include mainly vehicles, micro-computers and software.
Procurement for these goods would be prepared on an annual basis and done
through grouped bidding packages to allow for ICB.   When bulking is not
feasible, contracts for vehicles and data processing equipment not exceeding
US$200,000 but over US$50,000 may be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures,
which are acceptable to the Bank, subject to an aggregate ceiling of
US$500,000 worth of goods to be so procured during the entire project period.
LCB would be advertised locally and foreign contractors would be eligible to
bid.
3.51     Purchase of small off-the-shelf items would be allowed under prudent
shopping procedures with at least three price quotations  from reliable
suppliers.   The total value of items purchased this way would not exceed
US$200,000. All consultants and technical assistants financed by IBRD would
be recruited in accordance with Bank guidelines under agreed terms of
reference (see Annex 5).   Technical assistance financed by UNDP would be
selected in accordance with UNDP and Bank guidelines.  The total value of
IBRD goods to be procured through ICB would be about US$4.1 million (19% of
total costs); through LCB: US$1.6 million (7Z); and through other methods:
US$10.1 million  (47Z).   All bidding documents  for contracts  exceeding
US$50,000 would be made available to the Bank for prior review. Procurement
arrangements are summarized below.



- 26 -
Procurement Arrangements a/
(US$ million)
Items                        ICB       LCB     OTHER      COF b/   TOTAL
1. Civil works                      -       1.1        -        0.3       1.4
(1.1)                        (1.1)
2. Vehicles                        3.7      0.2        -         -        3.9
(3.7)    (0.2)                         (3.9)
3. Technical Assistance             -        -        2.6       0.9       3.5
(2.6)               (2.6)
4. Equipment                       0.4      0.3        -         -        0.7
(0.4)    (0.3)       -                 (0.7)
5. Training                         -        -        0.9        -        0.9
(0.9)               (0.9)
6. Research Support                 _        -        0.7        -        0.7
(0.7)               (0.7)
7. Operating Costs                  -        -        4.4      4.7        9.1
(4.4)               (4.4)
8. PPF                              -        -        1.5        -        1.5
(1.5)               (1.5)
Total                          4.1      1.6      10.1      5.9       21.7
(4.1)    (1.6)   (10.1)               (15.8)
a/ Amounts in parenthesis indicate IBRD financing.
b/ Cofinancing by other donors would be made under they own procedures.
4.  Disbursements
3.52     Disbursement of the IBRD Loan of US$15.8 million is shown over a 6-
year period starting January 1, 1991 (Annex 10).   Project disbursements
follow IBRD's standard profile for the Congo, but start at a higher level as
they include US$1.5 million of PPF-financed activities. Disbursement from
the Loan would be made as follows:



- 27 -
Disbursement of IBRD Loan
US$ million          Z of Expenditures
Category                  Equivalent            To be Financed a/
1. Civil Works                    1.0                          902
2. Vehicles and Equipment         3.5                         1002
3. Technical Assistance           2.3                         100%
4. Training                       0.8                         1002
5. Research Support               0.6                         1002
6. Small ruminants/fish farming 0.6                           1002
7. Operating Costs                3.9                    Declining basis b/
8. PPF Refinancing                1.5
9. Unallocated                    1.6
Total                 15.8
a/ of amount net of taxes
b/ 802 until 12/31/1992, 55Z until 12/31/94 and 302 thereafter
3.53     All disbursement claims would be fully documented,  except  for
expenditures and contracts below US$30,000 equivalent for which certified
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) would be used. Documentation of SOEs would
be held for review by Bank supervision missions and verification by external
auditors. The Bank would not honor direct payment requests below US$30,000
equivalent   or   reimbursement   requests   below   US$50,000   equivalent.
Replenishment of the Special Account (para 3.47) would be for no less than
US$100,000 equivalent.
5.  Financial Management, Accounting and Audit Requirements
3.54     The Logistics Service of the Directorate of Development Research,
Training and Extension (DRDFV) would be responsible for financial control,
accounting and procurement. To strengthen this service, the project would
provide ten man-months of short-term consultancies in financial management
and accounting. The consultant would ensure (a) the maintenance of sound
accounting and budgetary control procedures; (b) prompt and adequate flow of
funds to the regions; (c) preparation and follow-up of disbursement claims;
and (d) preparation of bidding documents and advice on bid evaluation. The
consultant would also be responsible for training Congolese staff in
financial management and accounting, both at MJDR Headquarters and in the
regions.
3.55     Detailed budgets and work programs would be submitted to the Bank
for approval no later than June 30 prior to the beginning of each calendar
year.   Assurances  to  this  effect were  obtained  at negotiations  (para
6.01(c)).  The proiect accounts would classify expenditures by region and
component for budgetary and management control purposes.  There would be



- 28 -
tight physical control of vehicles and equipment. DRDFV's Logistics Service
would ensure the transfer to separate regional bank accounts of sufficient
funds to cover two months expenditures, with monthly replenishment according
to the annual budget.   Project accounts would be audited according  to
international standards by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
auditor would be required to express an opinion on the reliability of SOE
procedures, the legitimacy of expenditures made out of the Special Account,
and the utilization of goods and services financed under the IBRD Loan. The
audited accounts and the auditors report would be submitted to the Bank no
later than four months after the end of the financial year. Assurances on
the foregoing were obtained at negotiations (para 6.01(d)).
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.   General Project Organization
4.01     Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with
the Directorate of Development Research, Training and Extension (DRDFV), with
the  Director  of  DRDFV  acting  as  Project  Manager.         The  project's
administrative and financial management would be the responsibility of
DRDFV's Logistics Service that would be strengthened to this effect (para
3.29).   DRDFV would implement the various project components  (a) either
directly using its own operating structure at local and central level; this
structure would be expanded to accommodate the needs arising from project
activities; or, (b) by sub-contracting to individual projects (both within
MJDR or outside) or external institutions (both government-controlled or
independent); or, (c) by a combination of the above two possibilities. In
all cases, the project would place emphasis on strengthening the implementing
structures/institutions so that project activities be sustained in the long
run.  Also, due care would be taken to ensure that project activities are
consistent with the Government's overall rural development policies and
remain coordinated with other government services. To this effect, a project
Steering Committee internal to MJDR, would be established.   It would be
presided by the Minister MJDR of and would include participation of
representatives of the Ministry of Planning and Economy, concerned MJDR's
Cabinet members and the staff responsible of the project's various executing
structures.      Establishment   of  such  a  Committee,   with  functions,
responsibilities and membership acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition
of effectiveness (para 6.02(d)).
B.  The Extension Service
4.02     Under the project,  the Government would continue  to gradually
organize its extension service based on the approach and methods of the T&V
system of extension management. Responsibility for the above task would be
vested with DRDFV's Extension Service.   The Extension Service Chief would
continue to be advised for twc years by an internationally-recruited
Extension Specialist (para 3.09) (see Terms of Reference for this position
in Annex 5). The organizational chart of the Extension Service is shown at
Annex 11. Details concerning the methodological and org&nizational aspects
of extension are given in Annex 12.



- 29 -
4.03     The basic field management unit at district level consists of the
Chief of the Extension Division who is one of the nine division chiefs
reporting to the District Chief of Agriculture  Sector.   The Chief of
Extension oversees about eight extension agents with, in the case of larger
districts, an intermediary echelon occupied by one or two extension
supervisors reporting to him. Under the project, each extension agent would
be assigned an area with approximately 350 farmers which is the ratio
presently applied under the pilot project. This ratio could be increased to
400 if it is demonstrated that extension agents can be given responsibility
for a greater number of farmers and keep equal management standards.
4.04     The  extension  agent  represents  the  front-line  element  of  the
extension system.  This agent also serves as general interface between the
Administration and the farmers for advice on productive activities.
Therefore, although he/she is formally supervised by the Extension Chief,
he/she is also the interlocutor of all other technical division chiefs at
district level. Such a situation entails an evident need for coordination.
In this perspective, to avoid duplication of activities and to allow the
extension service to receive the full technical support of the other
services, the project would provide to these services the incremental
resources (essentially travel and subsistence allowances) necessary for them
to furnish specific technical support. In fact, in certain districts, given
the status of productive activities, no such support is needed at present,
and the activities of certain specialized divisions may be redundant.   In
this regard, specific positions in the above districts should not be filled,
or, if they are already filled,  staff should be redeployed.   This would
enable to make the best use of scarce government resources.
4.05     At the  regional level,  a team of two to four subject matter
specialists would be posted at the Technical Coordination Service.   This
means that there would be two subject matters specialists for crop
activities, and one each (if needed) for livestock and fish farming
activities. Subject matter specialists would have a critical role as links
between extension agents (therefore the farmers) and research staff.   As
such, they would allocate a third of their time equally to (a) providing
technical support and guidance to extension agents (and supervisors) in their
extension activities; (b) training these staff during the fortnightly
training sessions; and (c) building their own knowledge and expertise through
regular visits and discussions with the research staff.  The Chief of the
Technical Coordination Service would coordinate training activities at the
regional level, and would be responsible for the planning and organization
of the fortnightly sessions.   The subject matter specialists capacity to
train and provide technical support to extension agents would be gradually
improved through monthly technical workshops to be organized by DRDFV's
Training Service, in collaboration with DRDFV's Development Research Service.



- 30 -
C.  Adaptive Research
4.06     Responsibility for implementation of the project's adaptive research
component would rest with the chief of DRDFV's Development Research Service
(Service Recherche-Developpement). He would continue to be assisted for two
years by an internationally-recruited Adaptive Research Specialist (para
3.15) (see Terms of Reference in Annex 5).  The initial adaptive research
program would be based on a technical diagnosis (a) summarizing the
characteristics of the prevailing systems in the country; and (b) identifying
the major constraints encountered under these systems.   Th'.s diagnosis,
performed at the onset of the project, would allow establishment of research
priorities and research content. Thereafter, the adaptive research program
would be revised yearly.   To assist in the preparation of the diagnostic
work, and in the subsequent establishment and follow-up of the yearly
programs (including specification and supervision of adaptive research tasks
to be contracted out), provision would be made under the project for two
months of consultancy yearly by a highly qualified agronomist.
4.07     The adaptive research program would be implemented (a) within the
Technical Support Centers (Centres d'Appui Technique-CATs) created under the
project; (b) on farmers fields; and (c) through sub-contracting to external
institutions. Each of the twelve technical support centers envisaged under
the project would be managed by a national agronomist with appropriate
ranking to help attract and retain the most qualified and experienced
candidates.   The CAT manager participates in the on-farm research program
whose responsibility, however, rests with the subject matter specialist. The
latter has a target of about 10-15 on-farm trials to undertake per season.
A UN volunteer, who has appropriate training and experience in agriculture,
is already in post in the CAT of Owando to help coordinate implementation of
the research program in the Cuvette region. He would continue to be funded
for a year under the project.
4.08     Certain components of the adaptive research program would be carried
out under specific contracts with external research institutions (para 3.14).
Such contracts would comprise: (a) technical documents giving the principles
underpinning the specific research task to be completed, including its
duration and details on (i) the specific actions to be undertaken (areas,
crops, varieties, calendar, etc.); (ii) the cropping tPs-iniques to be tested,
(manual and mechanical practices, timing of farming operations, use of
inputs, etc.); and (iii) the data to be produced (key indicators, methodology
for data collection, etc.); and (b) contractual documents specifying
estimated costs, payment arrangements and each party's obligations, e.g.
supervision and support by adaptive research services, reporting (technical
reports, accounts, etc.).
4.09     The adaptive research annual programs would be established jointly
by DRDFV's extension and adaptive research services, and subsequently
presented for discussion to the National Agricultural Extension and Research
Coordinating Committee (Comite National de Coordination de 'a Vulgarisation
et de la Recherche Agricoles). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
(a) DRDFV would prepare its proposed adaptive research program for the next
year by June 30 of each year, as part of its overall annual work program and



- 31 -
budget (para 3.55); and (b) the National Committee would be established with
membership and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank (para 6.01 (e). The
Committee would meet twice a year to:   (a) analyze results of research
programs implemented over the previous year; (b) review the adoption rates
of technical  recommendations during the previous  season;  (c) agree on
research programs and extension recommendations for the following year; and
(d) review the content of training programs for extension staff to be carried
out by research.
D.  Training and Rural Promotion
4.10     Training.  The training program would be prepared and supervised by
DRDFV's Training Service. It would be based on a detailed description of the
job content of the various positionis required for project implementation, and
an assessment of staff expertise and experience against these profiles. This
would lead to establishing DRDFV's long-term manpower needs, locate possible
sources of training, and design a corresponding manpower development program.
This program would be implemented through a variety of means, including short
training sessions, study tours in the country and overseas, seminars, etc.
The project would provide for short-term consultancies to advise in the
planning and programming, and subsequent management, of training activities.
At negotiations, assurances were obtained that DRDFV would prepare, each year
by June 30, a training program for the next year to be submitted for
consideration by the Bank as part of its overall work program a&- budget
(para 3.55).
4.11     Rural Promotion activities would be the responsibility of the Ruiral
Promotion Service to be created within DRDFV.   These activities woul. ':e
executed, as integral part of extension work, by rural promotion subject
matter specialists  (Techniciens Specialises de Promotion Rturale).   These
subject matter specialists would have primary expertise in group formation
and would be assisted by contract farmers (paysans leaders, see para 4.13).
The functional literacy program would be sub-contracted to the Rural Radio
Directorate.
4.12     One rural promotion subject matter specialist would be assigned in
each of the following five regions: Cuvette, Lekoumou and Kouilou, covered
by the pilot project; and Niari and Pool. He/she would report to the Chief
of the Rural Promotion Service through the regional Chief of the Technical
Coordination Service, and would liaise closely with the other subject matter
specialists in order to coordinate their work programs.
4.13     Contract farmers would be selected amongst the best performing
farmers. They would initially be given the task of mobilizing and organizing
farmers into cooperative groups. They would work part-time for the project,
under the direct supervision of the rural promotion subject matter
specialists and in close liaison with the local extension agents. For this
work, they would receive appropriate comper.sation.   Each rural promotion
subject matter specialist would initially follow on a pilot basis a dozen or
so contract farmers. This number would increase over the project period if
the experiment proves positive. Successful contract farmers would gradually
be given additional tasks.   They would eventually become fully-fledged
contractual extension agents, replacing the Administration's extension agents



- 32 -
and being compensated mostly by farmers' groups. This would pave the way for
a gradual transfer of responsibility for extension to local communities.
4.14     The general arrangements under which contract farmers would be
recruited were agreed at negotiations.  Assurances were obtained that the
five rural promotion subject matter specialists be appointed and deployed on
the field by June 30, 1991 to enable timely execution of rural promotion
activities (para 6.01(f)). The creation of the Rural Promotion Service, and
the appointment of a Chief of Service with qualifications acceptable to the
Bank, would be a condition of Loan effectiveness (para 6.02(f)).
E.  Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
4.15     M&E activities will  be  the  responsibility  of the DRDFV's M&E
Service.   It would use a network of enumerators in charge of organizing
collection of primary data at field level. There would be one enumerator per
region covered by the project. He/she would report to the Chief of the M&E
Service through the Regional Director of Rural Development (DRDR). He/she
would also liaise closely with the regional Planning ana Studies Service that
would be  strengthened under the project  (para 3.40).   Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the two division chiefs of the M&E Service and
the five regional enumerators be appointed and in post by June 30 1991, to
enable timely execution of the M&E component (para 6.01 (f)).
4.16     The Chief of  the M&E  Service would be  a member  of National
Coordinating Committee  for Extension and Adaptive Research,  since this
committee would base many of its decisions on data provided by M&E
activities. The M&E Service would report the results of current field work
immediately through brief reports and would synthesize information on core
indicators before each meeting of the Committee.   It would cooperate with
MJDR's Studies and Planning Directorate (DEP) in conducting the project Mid-
Term Evaluation envisaged by end-PY2. The objective of the evaluation would
be to assess whether (a) implementation is proceeding as planned; (b) the
project is reaching its targets (institutional and at farm- level); and (c)
the chosen extension and adaptive research strategies are appropriate.
Within six months of final Loan disbursement, the M&E Service would prepare
a Project Completion Report (PCR) focussing on the efficiency of the chosen
extension and adaptive research strategies, changes in farming practices, and
lessons learnt for future extension and adaptive research activities.
P-surances were obtained at negotiations that the Mid-Term Evaluation would
be held no later than December 31, 1992 (para 6.01(g)).
F.  Other Extension Support
4.17     These activities concern small ruminants husbandry and inland fish
farming.   They would be carried out respectively by the Small Ruminants
Center at Inoni-Falaise and the Fish Breeding Station at Djoumouna. These
two entities presently operate as independent projects (although for Inoni-
Falaise  external  assistance  stopped  in  mid-1989).    Since  they  have
administrative  and financial autonomy,  they can enter into contractual
arrangements with external agencies.  Their contracts with DRDFV would cover
all aspects of the technical support to be provided to the Extension Service
in their respective fields of activity, including training, supply of inputs,



- 33 -
data  collection and  specific  studies  (paras  3.36  and  3.38).   DRDFV's
Extension Service would ensure the technical follow-up of these contracts,
with the assistance of the General Directorate of Rural Development; DRDFV's
Logistics Service would manage them financially.
G. Agricultural Planning
4.18     This component would be  implemented over two years  by MJDR's
Directorate of Studies and Planning (DEP) within the framework of a Cost-
Sharing Agreement between UNDP and GOC.   This agreement would be of an
initial duration of two years. It could be extended thereafter to continue
assisting DEP if required.  The planning component would be organized and
managed independently of the other components by the Director of DEP who
would be accountable directly to the Director of DRDFV acting as Project
Manager.   Operationally,  close liaison would be maintained with DRDFV's
central services for specific activities, including M&E and training, and at
the regional level between DEP's regional services and the enumerators in
charge of field data collection.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Project Benefits
5.01     The  project  would  significantly  improve  the  organization  and
management of extension and adaptive research.  The T&V system has been
associated in many countries with significant yield increases because of its
capacity to teach farmers timely application of improved cultivation
practices.   The project would benefit directly about 58 percent of the
Congo's active farm population,  spread across the country.   The improved
cultivation practices to be disseminated under the project would imp.:ove
farmers' productivity and rural incomes.  The project would specifically
benefit women and youths as recipients of custom-made messages under the
project's rural promotion component.  Overall, the project would directly
benefit the poorer segments of the Congo's population and help reduce the
imbalance in urban vs rural income distribution.
5.02     The organizational aspects of the T&V system also generate important
institutional benefits. The systematic nature of the approach--a simplified
organizat.ional structure geared to the needs of the recipients and internally
monitored--provides an invaluable training ground for developing MJDR's
capabilities to plan, coordinate and implement extension programs at the
national level. The emphasis on formal linkages between farmers, extension
agents and research staff, and the strengthening of the adaptive research
program would help foster a favorable environment for accelerating the pace
of technological change. The project therefore represents an important step
in the creation of the institutional framework needed to provide appropriate
services to the agricultural sector.



- 34 -
B.  Economic Justification
5.03     It is difficult to estimate the economic rate of return (ERR) of a
nation-wide project of this type. The first problem arises when attributing
a precise level of benefits to extension and adaptive research alone. Other
important factors such as pricing policies, the availability and cost of
inputs and credit, and climatic conditions also greatly influence
production.  The second problem involves predicting the adoption rates of
recommended practices.   This problem arises because  the project covers
several regions with different resource base and constraints, and farmers at
differing levels of technological development. With these caveats, an ERR
has been estimated for the extension component based on broad country-wide
assumptions. The details of the assumptions and analysis are presented in
Annex 13. Yield levels are presently low, and experience under the pilot
project and other similar exercises have shown that available messages could
already  increase  on-farm  yields  by  20-40  percent.   With  conversative
assumptions on the coverage of the extension services (350 farmers per
Extension Agent against the final objective of 400, and an adoption rate of
improved practices on only 25 percent of the area covered), yields would need
to increase by only 15 percent to generate an ERR of 19 percent.   These
assumptions are conservative by any standard and are entirely feasible gihen
the progress achieved so far under the pilot project. Sensitivity analysis
on coverage, adoption rates, and yields is shown in Annex 13. Results show
that the project would still be viable if achievements were to fall below the
modest Base Cast assumptions.
5.04     The Base Case assumptions on extension coverage, area and yields
would generate an annual increase in total farm income of about CFAF 970
million (US$3.4 million equivalent) at full development as of end-PY5. This
increase in income would accrue to an estimated 143,850 farmers or 58 percent
of total active farm population (Annex 13), all of whom belong to the poorer
income groups of the Congo. The estimated average benefit per farmer would
be about CFAF 7,000 per annum, i.e an increase of approximately 10X of
his/her present income.
C.  Budgetary Implications
5.05     The financial implications of the project on the Government's budget
are shown in Annex 9. The project impact on the budget would be relatively
modest. The Government's contribution (net of taxes) is expected to increase
from about US$230,000 (CFAF 66 million) equivalent in 1991 to US$1.6 million
(CFAF 460 million) in 1995, or about four percent of the combined annual
investment and recurrent budgets of MJDR in 1989.  The project would not
directly generate fiscal revenues as there are no taxes levied on farm
production  in  the  Congo.   Eventually,  there  would  be  fiscal  revenues
indirectly generated from taxes on the additional expenditures of farmers as
their incomes increase.   The level of these revenues, however, cannot be
quantified at this point.



- 35 -
D.  Environmental Impact
5.06     The project would have a beneficial impact on the environment. The
adaptive research component would develop and adapt technologies geared to
preserving the farmer's resource base, such as improved soil management,
anti-erosion and fertility maintenance techniques. Technologies directed at
stabilizing farming, eliminating shifting cultivation and intensifying
cropping systems would reduce farmer encroachment into forest areas. This
would be the most effective action possible in conserving Congo's tropical
forests which are now being encroached upon by shifting cultivation.
E.  Risks
5.07     The extension system has been tried in priority zones under the
pilot project and is now adapted to Congolese conditions.  Therefore, the
main factors which could hamper satisfactory project execution would not be
related to the extension approach or methods. Rather, they might arise from
(a) inadequate local budgetary support; (b) lower than expected adoption
rates; and (c) unattractive prices and lack of marketing outlets. Details
on these factors are given below.
5.08     Government Budgetary Support.  Whilst the Government, despite severe
liquidity problems, continues to pay all MJDR's staff salaries regularly,
there is evidence of underfunding in certain areas (e.g., vehicles, operating
costs, travel allowances).   Therefore, to minimize the risk of inadequate
budgetary support, Bank funding would be provided under the project for
nearly 50 percent of incremental operating costs. This funding would be made
on a declining basis to allow the Government time to develop its capacity to
absorb incremental costs (para 3.46).
5.09     Adoption Rates.  Implementation of the T&V system of extension might
be hindered by ineffective management and lack of farmer incentives to adopt
improved technical recommendations. Effective management is crucial because
the project would introduce and support new ways of managing extension staff
and new methods of disseminating extension advice. These significant changes
would  involve considerable  reorientation of the extension  system.   The
project would thus provide MJDR with the consultancy services and technical
assistance required during project implementation and appropriate training
for Congolese staff. Irrelevant technology, inappropriate prices and poor
marketing services could reduce farmer incentives.  Concerning technology,
failure  of  the  adaptive  research  program  to  produce  appropriate
recommendations is a risk inherent to research.  However, special efforts
would be made under the project to minimize such a risk, in particular (a)
introduction of an appropriate methodology for on-farm research; (b) support
to key external adaptive research programs; and (c) strengthening of linkage
between extension and research.
5.10     Prices and Marketing.  Following the removal of State monopoly over
agricultural marketing under the SAL Program, prices of all crops are now
market-determined (para 2.14). However, poor infrastructure and marketing
arrangements could depress farmgate prices to unattractive levels. There is
evidence, for example, that the elimination of OCC and OCV's monopolies has



- 36 -
evidence, for example, that the elimination of OCC and OCV's monopolies has
caused some disruption of marketing activities and dissatisfactior, among
growers in recent years because of delayed collection and reduced prices
offered by private trader. In addition, crop marketing is seriously hampered
by inefficient marketing networks and poor feeder roads. Measures to improve
the marketing of agricultural products and rehabilite key feeder roads are
therefore essential to achieve project objectives. In this regard IFAD and
EDF are now preparing projects to provide support for market development and
the proposed Bank Roads Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (FY9lL) would
contribute to addressing the infrastructure constraint.
VI. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
Assurances Obtained at Negotiations
6.01     (a)   DRDFV's staff would be relocated in facilities satisfactory
to the Bank no later than June 30, 1991 (para 3.31);
(b)   the Government's counterpart funding of the project would be
budgeted yearly and subsequently deposited quarterly in
advance on the project account (para 3.48);
(c)   DRDFV would, by June 30 of each calendar year, submit an
annual work program, including a training program, and a
budget for the following year (para 3.55);
(d)   project accounts would be audited arnually and the audit
report submitted to the Bank no lacer than four months after
the end of the fiscal year (pare ..55);
(e)   the National Coordinating Committee for Extension and Adaptive
Research  would   be   established  with   membership   and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank (para 4.09);
(f)   MJDR would appoint and deploy line managers and subject matter
specialists (including enumerators) in adequate numbers, by
June 30, 1991 (paras 4.14 and 4.15); and
(g)   DRDFV would prepare a Mid-Term Evaluation to be held no later
than December 31, 1992 (para 4.16).



- 37 -
Conditions of Effectiveness
6.02      (a)   signature of a Cost-Sharing Agreement between GOC and UNDP for
the provision of technical assistance for the extension and
adaptive research components (paras 3.09 and 3.15);
(b)   signature of a Cost-Sharing Agreement between GOC and UNDP for
the provision of technical assistance for the planning
component (para 3.41);
(c)   opening of a Project Account and evidence of initial deposit
of CFAF 100 million (para 3.48);
(d)   establishment  of  the  project's  Steering  Committee  with
responsibilities and membership acceptable to the Bank (para
4.01); and
(f)   creation of DRDFV's Rural Promotion Service and appointment
of a Chief of Service with qualifications acceptable to the
Bank (para 4.14).
6.03   Recommendation.  With the above assurances, the proposed project would
be suitable for a loan of $15.8 million equivalent to the People's Republic
of the Congo on standard IBRD terms, with 20 years maturity.



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Organizational Chart
MINISTERE DE LA JEUNESSE ET DU DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
I                  I                     I                    I                    I -
DRECTION  D S      CO ROEC ETO  DE      RECTION         CENO TRESNEON             F  REE OPMN ET          ECO NDES         CO OPR AT E  SD
| IE  EUES                                    I LAEU ESS        RE DUAG ICUTR
DDDlRECTION DE        DIRECTION        DIRECTION RECHERCHE-      I                  CTION DES ACTIONS
DRECTIONALES       DIESCTVION DUVCNAOA                     OPERATION            DEVEATIPTQEMENT    DIRECTIONDELA SICOOPERATIVES,LADU
ETUDES ErOCLEUONTROLE ETD                LA RADIO             VILLAGES-           FORMATION ET            ECOLES           CREDIT ET DE LA
LA PLANICATION     IOEIENTrATION           RIU|A E              CENTRES           VULGARISATION      L                     COMMERCIALISATION
|S I IFIANCTI t   I                                         DIRECTION
I   I   IET DU PERSO^ELI  I       I  I               I I                I IET DU PERSONNELI IU
DE LA JEUNESSE                        ~~~~~~DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL]
DIRECTIOS  DIRECTON    DiFtETION DUDIRECTION                                                     BUREO LRCIO  E AAU DES
REGIONALESDES ACTIVITES        SERVICE NATIONAL      opROucTIO         STATISTIQUE      DISCECUTIURE L   ARHVS ET DEz LA
(10)     SOCIocUiLTURtELLES    OBUGATOIRE                            PAGCCULURELOCUENTATIO
DIRECTION    DIRECTION DES       BRAUDSDIRECTION DU GENIE    DIRECTION DES
AFFAIRES  ~ ~    ~     ~     IRCTON       RURAL. MACHINISME      AFFAJRES         DIRECTIONS
DES ACIVITES ADMINISTRATIVES.   ARCHIVES ET DE LA    PRODCIN          ET EQUIPEMENT     ADMINISTRATIVES.    REGIONALES
ECOWOMIOL,ES        FIACERS          DOCUMENTATION          ANIMALE          AGRICOLE         AINANCIERES            (10)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ET DU PERSONNELETDPRSNL
EK/W46907B
Ix



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT (MJDR)
Directorate of Development Research. Training and Extension (DRDFV)
Organizational chart
.                             ,                    ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...................
sERVIma                                                          1ENYICE                                            .  s5ERYcE
mEOiamEm                  SVICE                      SERVICE                 SERVICE               suIVI            . POWITOHN
*31VE1L EENET              V tULGARISATION           _ FOMUATION      . ..isT.e            .      EVALUATIO. N             tALE
DIVISION                                              DIVISION                                    DIVISION                 .
RECHERCHE                 DIVISION                    METHODES              DIVISION             ANALYSE ET       ..... DIVISION .
PRODti ON                 FORMATION                 ET DIFFUSION            FINANCES              METHODES           .PROHOTION.
VEGETALE
DIVISION                  DIVISION                   DIVISION               DIVISION              DIVISION  |          DIiISION
RECHERCHE                  AUDIO       IAPPUI A LA                         MATERIEL ET           TRAITEMENT       ...MEDIA
PRODtCTION                VISUELLE     I            PRODUCTION              EQUIPEMENT           DES DONNEES
DIVISION
REC4EROtE
PRODtCTION
PISCICOLE
DIVISION
RECHERCHE
I SOCIO- 
ECONOMIQUE
DIVISION
RECHERCHEI
Ie TECHNOLO- I S
LA*nd: ..Structure to bo created as part of the proj ct.                                                                                      1



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT (MJDR)
Organizational chart for the Directorate of Studies and Planning (DEP)
CABINT
SECRETARIAT
DIRECTION
0   SERVICE  |    | SERVICE DES |   SERVICE      SERVICESERVICE SUIVI-                      SERVICE                       -t
PLANIFICATION          ETUDES ET            DOCUMENTATION              FORMATION           EVALUATION              COOPERATION                   o
PROJETS                 ET
STATISTlQUJES
DIV ISION            DIVI'SLION              DIVISI1ON                 DIVISION            DIVISION              DIVISION
PROGRAM-             PRODUCTION              DONNEES                  RESSOURCES             SUIVI               COOPERATION     I
_ MNATION            VECETALE                PROJETS                   HUUAINES            EXECUTION             BILATERALE
PHYSIQUE
l   DIVISIQN    |    r DIVISION    l   l DIVISION           |       | DIVISION VIIISION |V| DIVISION N
I   POLITIqUES  I    I  PRODUCTION   I   I    DONNEES       I       I PRDGRtAMMES   I  IDSUIVI FMI                COOPERATIONA I
ACRICOLES             MIMALE                 ECON Mn |JES              DE FORMATION        FINANCE  V             INTERNATIONALE
DIVISION          I    DIVISION                                        DIVISION
AUTRES            [    DOCUMENTATION                                   EVA WATION
SOUS-SECTEURS
A:%GAF.&A



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
PhasinR-in of Districts
Pilot Phs            --     P-Project Period-----        -        PostPrTod
WaeON              (OPVA)           First Phoe                  Second Phase           Pertod
(1997/96)          (PYI/PY2)     (Old-Tem      (PYS/PY4/PYS)       (a. of 1996)
Review)
11eI I leg        Vllei             Hila Kba&ammdk
Maias Ke
Elect               -                __Ivakes                    RII'ft.               -ayebo
Ukeumas           Si bitt           Rea                            ss.3wmin
peel              Kidedmae          *Iad.eiI                                          M
Pl_        -                L4                           1*                  D3_olo -abol
1N'S1b                                            N 'Com TO& Tai
Cevette           Eve               Owand                                             Louhol6l
K6116             Oyo                                               Meto..
SOundJI                                                             Mosseh
Olkojo                                                              M'Som
Seegha              ---Semb
So"at
Sousnt&
Mok6ko
Do""
Ep6
Number of districts
U                   14                           8                   15
0 0



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
______________________________
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
…-----------------------------------------------------------_
EXTENSION STAFF REQUIREMENTS PER DISTRICT
ACTIVE RURAL
REGION/DISTRICT  POPULATION                 EXTENSION AGENTS (EBS)/SUPERVISORS                      SUBJECT MATTER SPECIALISTS (TSs) a/    TECHNICAL
---------------   -----------   --------     -------------------------------------------------   ----~----  ----------------------------    SUPPORT   CENTERS
OPVA      PY1        PY2        PY3        PY4        PYS       TSPV   TSPA   TSPC   TSPR    ESE              (CATs) b/
(87/90)   (90/91)   (91/92)   (92/93)   (93/94)   (94/95)
KOUILLOU                                                                                          2     -       -1              1
M'VOUTI                 6,800    17/2        17/2       17/2      17/2       17/2       17/2                                                     OPVA
HINDA                   4,800       -        10/2       12/2      12/2       12/2       12/2
…________    ------     ------     ------    ------     ------     ------
SUBTOTAL               11,600    17/2        27/4       29/4      29/4       29/4       29/4
NIARI                                                                                           2      1       1       1      1
LOUVAKOU               16,200      -         33/4      38/4       38/4       38/4       37/4                                                      PYl
MOUTAVBA                6,800      -         15/2      17/2       17/2       17/2       16/2                                                      PYl
KIMONGO                 2,800      -          -           -        6/1        8/1        8/1
KIBANGOU                2,400      _    -                6/1       6/1        6/1        6/1
DIVENIE                 3,200      -          _           _         _         8/1        8/1
…________     -----     -   ----              ------    ------     ------
SUBTOTAL               30,400      -         48/6      61/7       67/8       77/8       75/8
LEKOUMOU                                                                                          2      1       1       1      1
SIBITI                 10,800    27/4        27/4      27/4       27/4       27/4       26/4                                                     OPVA
ZANAGA                  3,200      -          -         7/1        8/1        8/1        8/1
KOMONO                  3,200      -          -           -         -         8/1        8/1
…________    - -----    -   ----   ------    ------                ______
SUBTOTAL               17,200    27/4        27/4      34/5       36/6       43/S       42/B
BOUENZA                                                                                          2      1       1       1      1
MOUYONDZI              12,800      -        25/4       32/4       32/4       32/4       31/4                                                     PY2
MADINGOU                6,800      -         11/2      14/2       14/2       14/2       14/2                                                      -
MI'FOATI                4,000      -          -          -        10/1       10/1       10/1                                                      _
N'KAYI                  4,000      -          -           -        2/1       10/1       10/1                                                      _
LOUDIMA                 4,400      -          -           -         -        11/1       11/1                                                      -
BOKO SONGNO             2,800      -          -           -                   2 1/0      7/1                                                      -
SUBTOTAL               33,800      -        38/6       48/6       58/8       78/9      83/10
POOL                                                                                           2       1       1      1       1
KINDAMBA                5,60      14/2      14/2       14/2       14/2       14/2       14/2
KINKALA                10,400       -       20/3       26/3       26/3       26/3       26/3
MINDOULI                8,000       -          -       20/2       20/2       20/2       19/2                                                     PY1         Pt
N'GABE                  8,000       -          _       20/2       20/2       20/2       19/2                                                                 co
-________    ------     ------     ------    ------     ------     ______
SUBTOTAL               32,000    14/2       34/6       80/9       80/9       80/9       77/9                                 
o -
A:\AN4P2.DG:                                                                                                                                                    m 



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
______________________________
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
------------------------------------------------------------__
EXTENSION STAFF REQUIREMENTS PER DISTRICT
ACTIVE RURAL
REGION/DISTRICT  POPULATION               EXTENSION AGENTS (EBs)/SUPERVISORS                    SUBJECT MATTER SPECIALISTS (TSs) a/    TECHNICAL
--------------_  _________________________________________________________- _____________________-------------------SUPPORT CENTERS
OPVA      PY1        PY2       PY3       PY4        PYs      TSPV   TSPA  TSPC    TSPR    ESE            (CATs) b/
(87/90)   (90/91)   (91/92)   (92/93)   (93/94)   (94/95)
PLATEAUX                                                                                     1I                    
LEKANA                 2,400     -         8/1        6/1        8/1       6/1      6/1                                                    PY2
GAMBOMA                6,400     -          -        14/2       16/2      18/2      1S/2
DJAMBALA (NGO)         4,400     -          -                    -         -         -                                                     PY3
ABALA                  4,800     -          -         -          -         -        12/1
SUBTOTAL              18,000     -         6/1       20/3       22/3      33/4      34/5
CUVETTE                                                                                     2       1      1      1      1
EWO                    4,000    10/1       10/1      10/1       10/1      10/1      10/1                                                   OPVA
KELLE                  4,800    12/2       12/2      12/2       12/2      12/2      12/2                                                                    4 
BOUNDJI                2,800     7/1        7/1       7/1        7/1       7/1      7/1                                                    -
OKOYO                  2,100     6/1        5tl       5/1       S/1        6/1      6/1
OWANDO                6,000      -         15/1      15/1      15/1      1/1       15/1                                                   OPVA
OYO                    1,600     -          4/1       4/1       4/1        4/1      4/1
SUBTOTAL              21,300    34/5       U5/7      t3/7       53/7      53/7      53/7
SANCHA
SOUANKE                  -       -           -         -          -         -         -                                                    PY3
LIKOUALA                                                                                     1       1
DONGOU/IMPFONDO        7,200    18/3       18/3      18/3      18/3       18/3      18/3                                                   PYl
/EPENA
TOTAL          171,300   110/lB    251/36    341/44    3S6/47    411/49    411/52         14       7      6      6      7             12
a/ TSPV  =  Crop Production TS (Technicien Sp6cialis6 de Production V6g6tale)
TSPA  =  Animal Production TS (Technicien Sp6cialis6 de Production Animale)
TSPC  =  Fish Farming TS (Technicien Specialis6 de Pisciculture)
TSPR  =  Rural Promotion TS (Technicien Sp6cialis46 de Promotion Rurale)                                                                               >
ESE   =  Monitoring and Evaluation Enumerator (Enqu6teur de Suivi-Evaluation)
b/  OPVA  =  Means Technical Support Centers created under the pilot project (1987/90)                                                                   o C
A: \ANX4P3.DOC                                                                                                                                           L 4:



- 44 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Terms of Reference of the Resident Technical Assistance
1.   Extension Specialist
-    Title/Accountable to: Senior Technical Advisor to DRDFV's Director
(who is also the Project Manager) for extension and general administrative
matters, posted with the Chief of the Extension Service. The expert is also
the Principal Technical Advisor (Chef Technique Principal - CTP) of the UNDP
project for provision of technical assistance for research and extension
activities, financed under the Cost-Sharing Agreement between GOC and UNDP
with FAO as executing agency.
-    Location/Duration:  Brazzaville, with frequent routine short-term
missions within the country; two years.
-    Job Description:  The expert would:  (a) as primary responsibility,
assist in designing and implementing a national extension system based on T&V
methodology; and (b) as other responsibility, assist in general project
implementation matters. Concerning extension, he would advise the Chief of
the Extension Service specifically on:   (a) the design of the extension
methodology  and  its  subsequent  implementation;  (b)  the  development  of
linkages with agricultural research; (c) the review and approval of extension
aids; (d) the conduct of courses, seminars and workshops on extension
methods. Concerning general operational matters, the expert would assist
DRDFV's  Director  in:    (a)  preparing  the  required  bi-annual  project
implementation progress reports; (b) coordinating and organizing the work
program of external missions (donor supervieions and project technical
consultancies); and (c) preparing the Project Mid-Term Evaluation that would
take place end-PY2.
-    Qualifications/Experience:    Graduate  or  equivalent  degree  in
agriculture; at least 15 years of experience in a leading position concerning
extension management, with a minimum of five years in Africa.   Specific
knowledge and experience in the Congo would be an advantage.
2.   Adaptive Research Specialist
-    Title/Accountable to:  Senior Technical Advisor posted at DRDFV's
Development Research Service (SRD), reporting to DRDFV's Director through the
Chief of SRD.   The expert would be Senior Technical Advisor for adaptive
research under the Cost-Sharing Agreement to be signed between GOC and UNDP
for provision of technical assistance for E&R activities, with FAO as
executing agency.



- 45 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
-    Location/Duration:    Brazzaville,  with  frequent  routine  trips
upcountry; two years.
-    Job Description:  Expert to be responsible for assisting in the
development  of  a suitable  adaptive  research  program,  including:    (a)
definition of initial priorities based on baseline surveys and secondary
data; (b) annual programming with CNCVRA; (c) support to gradual expansion
of the network of CATs; (d) establishment and supervision of trials in
farmers' fields; and (d) management of research sub-programs contracted out
to external institutions. In undertaking the above tasks, expert to liaise
closely with the Extension Service and the research establishment, and to
perform on-the-job coaching and participate in formal training activities
concerning adaptive research.
-    Qualifications/Experience.    Graduate  or  equivalent  degree  in
agriculture; at least 10 years of relevant adaptive research experience in
a developing country, with five years under agro-ecological conditions
similar to those prevailing in the Congo; required familiarity with extension
activity; specific knowledge and experience in the Congo would be an
advantage.
3.   Adaptive Research Technician
-    Title/Accountable to: Technical advisor posted in a CAT, reporting
to DRDFV's Director through the Chief of the CAT and the Chief of the
Development Research Service.   The expert would have  status of United
Nations Volunteer under the Cost-Sharing Agreement to be signed between GOC,
and UNDP for provision of technical assistance for E&R activities, with FAO
as executing agency.
-    Location/Duration:  Owando, frequent trips in the Cuvette region,
12 months.
-    Job Description:  Under the technical supervision of the Adaptive
Research Specialist, expert to assist the Chief of the CAT in the region
where he/she is posted (and possibly other CATs) in (a) establishing the
yearly research program for the CAT; (b) implementing the planned CAT trials
and collecting/interpreting results; and (c) establishing and following-up
trials on farmers' fields.   Expert would liaise closely with the TSs in
undertaking above tasks, in particular to incorporate any pertinent feedback
from EBs.  He/she would provide on-the-job coaching to counterpart staff.
and, upon request, participate in formal training of research staff.
-    Qualifications/Experience:  Undergraduate or equivalent degree in
agriculture with at least five years of professional experience in research
or related field. Acquaintance with conditions prevailing in Congo would be
an advantage.



- 46 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
4.   Agricultural Planning Specialist
-    Title/Accountable  to:   Senior Technical Advisor  for strategic
planning activities reporting to the DEP's Director.   The expert is also
Principal Technical Advisor (Chef Technique Principal - CTP) of the UNDP
Agricultural Planning Support project financed under a Cost-Sharing Agreement
between GOC and UNDP, with FAO as executing agency.
-    Location/Duration:  Brazzaville, with frequent short-term missions
withing the country; two years renewable.
-    Job Description:  The expert's main responsibilities are to assist
the DEP's Director in the areas of (a) macro-economic planning; (b) cost-
benefit analysis; (c) monitoring aid evaluation; and (d) sectoral studies.
Additionally, the expert would contribute, to the establishment and
subsequent management of the Documentation Unit that has been created within
DEP.   Formal training activities  in the form of seminars,  conferences,
workshops, etc. are also an important task assigned to the expert, beyond the
daily on-the job coaching that he is to provide to DEP's counterpart staff.
-    Qualifications/Experience:    Graduate  or  equivalent  degree  in
agriculture (agronomomy, agricultural economics or related field), with at
least ten years of relevant experience of which five in Afr'ca.   Specific
knowledge and experience in the Congo would be an advantage.
*:cobanS.s8r
COBO1



- 47 -                            Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Technical Diaanosis and Main Orientations for Adaptive Research
1.        Background.  In the Congo, agricultural activities are carried out
under difficult conditions, including: (a) a climate characterized by heavy
rainfalls which lead to leached soils and rapid erosion if plant cover is
deficient; and (b) low fertility, sandy and often acid soils which, because
of their weak structure, do not resist the mechanical action of rainfall.
Their retention capacity for nutrients is very low. Therefore, cultivation
practices result in severe erosion and in a rapid fall of biological
fertility and productivity after one or two cycles. Soil capacity for water
retention is also reduced and periods of hydrous deficit have been rioted even
under the current high rainfall conditions.
2.        Conditions inherent to the Congo therefore allow production only
over very short periods (one to three crop cycles) and force farmers to
continuously clear primary forests or old forests under fallow (more than 10
years old). Although this phenomenon occurs mainly in cassava production
areas, it also happens where banana/plantain production is as important as
cassava production. Indeed, even if banana plantations are more perennial
(6-10 years), soil fertility losses lead to rapid yield reduction and, as
early as the second year, to a search by farmers for higher fertility plots
in other forest areas.
3.        In the Niari valley, which has more potential, agriculture is
carried out under a system of short fallow (about three years).  However,
the system of mechanized farming already practiced on large plantations
requires lime and phosphate applications in order to maintain the production
level that justifies this cultivation method. There also, leached soil3 are
the cause of their low chemical fertility.
4.        Production  systems  and  their  constraints.    Under  the  above
conditions, traditional production systems can only be extremely extensive
and take considerable space. The constant forestry clearing by cutting, or
by fire in the savanna, is an activity carried out by men who also hunt,
fish, build dwellings and provide maintenance for coffee and other commercial
crop plantations. Most agricultural activities in cassava areas are carried
out by women. In the south, which is a cassava/banana/plantain production
area, men are more involved in farming activities because sweet banana and
plantain production is a source of scarce monetary revenues. This tendency
is aggravated by the crisis confronting traditional cash crops such as coffee
and cocoa, since revenues from these crops are diminishing and many
plantations whose production is unsold are progressively abandoned.
5.        Constraints, according to priority, are:  (a) marketing, i.e., the
possibility for producers to dispose of their produce in exchange for the
minimum monetary revenues they need; in this respect, access, which is linked
to rural roads conditions and entails considerable travel and transport time,



- 48 -                                     Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
remains a major constraint; (b) the heavy and strenuous workload entailed by
agricultural  activities  which  are  still  undertaken manually;   1/  this
constraint is not strongly voiced by farmers, although they are aging,
because it is part of their daily routine, but it is nevertheless a major
constraint to cropping intensification; and (c) the lack of extension
services.
6.        Technologies.  The URDFV's Research and Development Service  is
carrying out, under OPVA and through its CATs, several cropping experiments
in order to: (a) improve available planting material, especially for cassava
and groundnuts; and (b) test improved crop practices against traditional
practices.   Interesting results have already been observed and several
technical elements have been included in extension packages, in particular
regarding plant density (cassava, banana) and sowing (groundnuts). However,
the main problem, i.e., the definition of a technical avenue to ensure
fertility conservation, overcome weed problems, and thus stabilize crops and
stop slash-and-burn cultivation, has yet to be addressed.
7.        To remedy this situation, it would therefore be useful to launch
a series of tests based on the following principles: (a) avoid as far as
possible keeping soils bare and therefore work on mulching techniques and
vegetal cover (Pueraria); (b) seek to maintain soil fertility through
vegetationt introductior. nf legume fallow (stylotanthes), edges of perennial
plants for cutting and mulching (Leucaena, Pennisetum, etc.); (c) study of
the impact of fertilizer treatment (lime, phosphate) to accelerate fallow
utilization; and (d) control of weeds through plant cover (see (b) above).
These methods should at least result in the extension of cultivation cycles;
however, chemical fertility will remain low and the search for high
productivity (e.g., exceeding 2.5 t/ha for maize and 1 t/ha for groundnuts)
will require a supply of external organic (manure, compost) or chemical
fertilizer.
8.        Technical Packages for Extension.  The OPVA launched its extension
program based on a few themes corresponding to available technical packages,
including:   seeding and planting densities and schedules; use of improved
cutting material, specific maintenance messages, etc. However, the stock of
existing themes is limited and adaptive research should now rapidly generate
new technical packages so that extension would not be short of technical
1/   For  example,  in  cassava  growing  areas,  the  plowing,  burning  of
vegetation, building of heaps, planting of cuttings (and their prior
transport to the field) are a series of long and strenuous tasks. With
two weedings, it amounts to 150 to 200 workdays per hectare. To these
tasks must be added travel and transport time. Due to the continuous
search for more fertile land, cropped plots are often located at long
distances from the farmer's living quarters.  This represents a long
time (typically 3-4 hours per workday) commuting to and from cultivated
areas. Crop evacuation can require up to 500 return trips, i.e., for
a plot located at say 7-10 km from the farmer's house, about 3,500 to
5,000 km carrying loads of 40 to 50 kg.



Annex 6
- 49 -                              Page 3 of 3
messages, in particular those designed to address specific constraints
related to farming systems or overall farmer strategy. 21
9.        Some new technical packages that could be disseminated through
extension are the following:
(a)  The home garden, a small enclosure for household garbage disposal
where compost pits could be made and where farmers could grow a
variety of grain crops, vegetables or tubers, to improve family
nutrition, both quantitatively and qualitatively; home gardens
would have to be protected from small ruminants and fowl.
(b)  The raising and fattening of small ruminants kept in enclosures
or tied, end fed by children, could be very productive and bring
valuable revenues; marketing of small ruminants is in general easy;
water supply for drinking could be a limiting factor, and
reservoirs or barrels to collect rain water may have to be provided
to promote this activity.
(c)  Overall,  the wandering of domestic animals  is destructive;  it
causes damages on home plots, on surrounding fields, etc.; this
practice should be stopped; to this effect, all villagers should
be sensitized to this change which should be carried out as a
collective activity.
(d)  Regarding grain crops (maize, groundnuts, cowpeas, soybeans, etc.),
packages aimed at improving seed quality should be rapidly
disseminated; they would cover (i) grading, drying and storage of
seeds; and (ii) treatment with fungicides before sowing; because
this package is easy to adopt, it guarantees a tremendous
improvement in plant emergence and density per hectare.
10.       Improved Productivity. Any attempt to introduce new packages aimed
at intensifying production will face a major obstacle: the time available
for work.   Therefore,  if one wants farmers to improve their cultivation
practices which will require more working time per hectare, it will be
necessary to reduce the time they spend on other tasks. This objective could
be reached by reducing time spent on travel and transportation, and crop
processing (especially cassava processing into foufou and chickwangue), which
are time-consuming activities. Transport and travel time may take about 50
percent of the total time spent on agricultural activities, excluding the
processing of agricultural produce.
2/   As an illustration, when marketing is hypothetical, as is now the case,
farmers are reluctant to adopt packages dealing with timely work
programs for cassava planting.   They prefer a gradual planting of
cuttings corresponding to their work capacity; this, moreover, allows
them to meet their food needs by carrying out harvesting on a longer
period of time.



- 50 -                              Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Adaptive Research: Methodology and Organization of On-Farm and CAT Trials
1.        The project's adaptive research program would tailor broad-based
findings from applied research to the more location-specific requirements of
the micro agro-ecological and/or social environment in which farmers operate.
The adaptive research program - except the minor part sub-contracted to
external research institutions (para 3.14) - would be performed both (a) on
farmers' fields; and (b) in Technical Support Centers (Centres d'Appui
Techniques - CATs).
2.        On-Farm Research.  Major emphasis would be placed on-farm research
conducted on farmers' field with the active participation of farmers. At the
onset, information on farmers' circumstances would be gathered by an
interdisciplinary team of research and extension staff. The team would (a)
assemble and analyze background data from secondary sources (e.g. census and
rainfall data), and note those factors which would guide the questioning of
farmers; and (b) conduct informal interviews with farmers and other economic
agents with knowledge of farmers' circumstances; it would also observe
farmers' fields.   This exploratory work would give the team a first-hand
knowledge of farmers' work environment and problems. It would also provide
a basis for organizing a formal survey covering the whole farming system to
verify and quantify data from the exploratory work. The formal survey would
pay particular attention to analysis of the gender and age group differences
in labor allocation and in access to control of resources, so that problems
of the two target groups of women and youth be best addressed.
3.        The  surveys would enable  to determine  priorities  amongst the
various themes to be researched. Thereafter, an experimental plan would be
designed including methodology for treatment (usually single replicate,
simple farm trials repeated over a number of locations); AND MANAGEMENT OF
EACH TRIAL (tuned to farmers practices, capacity and resources).
4.        The process of systematically obtaining  information on farmer
circumstances should be integral part of the process of undertaking on-farm
experiments. The view that farmers are experimenters or researchers in their
own rights, and that experiments should be jointly planned by scientists and
farmers and executed by farmers with minimum support of scientists, would be
central to this approach.
5.        A suggested timetable for an on-farm research program of surveys
and experiments is given below:



- 51-                               Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Y.ii*      T                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yea, 2
n th iclSo th a
1    2  3  *  S  6  7  8  O  10    11    :2    11    2  3  *  5  6  7  a
I   First Ceo, Cycle  /              I   Scond Crop Cycle
Catie-no Secondary Dcta on  I 
Reg    on   _ _
E£.lo e Story  S vb              . .  . .  . .  .. . | _  2!_. . . . b/
Formal Suetoy       I
AnglyainaZ er ostsa  i@            Ak
On-Form Exp.r; mmita 
Planning                            4_                 I
Prei eaton  -__ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _   B.e  I
Escuto _    _____                                      1   _20-25  k .1
E:.al.*t"ion  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _s o
Reporting RAesults and 
Planning Nest Cycle's
Act e.. ____________ |___________________________ ______r_________,__
a,  P.Pleateng;  l4 -t.e
D/ Dotted Ines ind,..t.  that t   *ct" actite   ay be I@o  then full t,me for the  ,c.od.
c/  P,aarsPt.on eet-itiec  ,nclud* "ccling of farmers'  design of oueetionnerec, treannge, *ec. foe tbe foeral
suevey *nd cite ccl.ct.ion, *_ccly of cate,sle etc. for c.per#uentat.ot.
6.        Adaptive Research on CATs. With a strong on-farm research program,
adaptive research on CATs would be primarily aimed at developing
technological components which require more controlled conditions.  Also,
CATs can be used to screen new techniques for their undesirable effects on
farmers fields.
7.        A typical CAT program would have three parts:
(a)  Experiments.   The sitting and layout of experiments would be
dependent on local conditions prevailing on the CATs. The trials
would aim at adapting recommended husbandry practices from research
stations to local conditions; they would be simple (randomized
blocks or factorials), generally comparing increments of a single
variable (e.g., fertilizer rates or straight first order
interactions (varieties and soil moisture conservation practices;
varieties and fertilizers); a series of trials under CRAL's
directions would be carried out on agronomic matters, and variety
selections;
(b)  Demonstrations.  Demonstration plots would provide the necessary
teaching facilities, primarily for extension staff.  They would
illustrate for instance field techniques of land preparation, crop
establishment, production, and the use of appropriate technology
for crop processing and storage. Additionally, in each CAT one or
several educational plot(s) (parcelled didactique) would be
established to show farmers the effect of recommended practices.
These plots would be located on the most visible and easily
accessible part of the CAT; and
(c)  Observations.    Selected  agronomic  practices  and  the  yield
performance  of  selected  crops  would  be  further  tested  on
observation plots in representative areas outside the CATs prior
to inclusion in future demonstrations. New techniques such as a
zero tillage, cropping under mulch, cover crops, alley cropping,
etc. would be introduced on these observation plots.



NATIONAL ACRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH
PROJECT
Su_mry Account by Project Component
FCFA
MEIITORIN                                                              Physical           Price
a A                                    AGRICULTU                  Contin gnc;-s      Contin.ecies
ADAPTIVE  TRAININC EVALUATIO MANAGENEN   SMAL    INLAND        RAL                  -------------------------------------
EXTENSION  RESEARCH  A MEDIA       N      T SUWPORT RUMINANTS FISHERIES  PLANNIIN      Total        %      Amount      X   Amount
1. INESTREW COSTS
A. VEJICULES                     627879.0   67760.0   64600.0   81200.0   80000.0   19600.01  180.01  17320.0  682429.0             8.7   74160.0    36.1  311606.5
S. EUI1PSNSOT                     29636.0   88028.0   27000.0    6750.0   519S0.0    1680.0   10160.0    9880.0  170519.0           8.1   13778.0    24.2   41274.6
C. SATIMENTS                          0.0   I9S900.0   70000.0       0.0   22400.0   14440.0    7000.0         0.0  818440.0        S.9   27609.0    21.6   67864.9
0. ASSISTANCE TEOCNICQE          206496.5  217568.0  124000.0   46000.0   87000.0         0.0        0.0   92626.0  774709.5        0.2    1200.0    23.3  14128.0
E. FORMATION                      18500.0    9000.0  146128.0   1550.0,         0.0     500.0    4200.0   18820.0  202148.0         9.0   19844.0    28.4   47885.3
F. STOCK ANIMAUX             .        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0    7620.0        0.0       0.0   7620.0         1.4      106.0     8.4     641.3
a. PPF INVESTISSEMENT              7800.0   10000.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0  17800.0         2.1     865.0      3.1    1897.9
Total INDESTUENT COSTS           38184O.6  588959.0  422608.0  100450.0  193180.0   44010.0   84860.0  182595.0 2848100.5           6.8  187862.6    27.3  658788.8
II. RECOiT COSTS                                                                                                                                                              r
A. IM)EITES                      266688.0    8976.0        0.0    7710.0    8000.0       750.0       0.0       0.0  277074.0        0.0       0.0    15.1   41767.0
B. FRAIS DE MISSION              470946.5   64628.5   70411.0   86507.6   28s87.5    7750.0   17376.0    9984.0  784964.0           0.0       0.0    16.4  120461.7
C. SALADIES                       40816.0  129790.0    4200.0        0.0    4600.0    4329.0         0.0       0.0 18847.0         0.0       0.0    16.7   80580.4
0. SUPPORT RECiERCHE                  0.0  175100.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0  175100.0       10.0   17610.0    28.7   50290.8
E. FOCKTIONEMfENT VEHICULES      897832.0  68105.0   84360.0   25760.0   20000.0   10000.0   11876.0    3000.0  570412.0            8.8   49987.0    88.3  192694.7
F. FONCTIONNEMENT DIMERS          2S891.0   21586.0  102862.0    6000.0  131000.0   92000.0   12000.0    4646.0  456537.0           7.7   48418.0    25.5  115110.7
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__----------_-_---------------------------------------------------
Total RECURRENT COSTS           1194624.6  407280.5  211828.0  108497.5  287687.5  114829.6   40760.0   22682.0 2892624.6          4.8  102110.0    28.0  500694.8
Total BASELINE COSTS            2078488.0  1006189.5  688926.0  208947.6  429017.5  166889.6   76100.0  166227.0 474065.1          6.1  289472.6    26.4  1204688.6
Physical Contingencie.          94289.6   45084.0   42661.3    9520.0   28038.0   18946.0    5772.6    6261.8  289472.6
Price Contingnc;ie             640490.3  206878.3  166166.6   59874.4  116716.7       227.1   19800.4   86985.8 1204688.6         6.1   78785.9
Total PROJECT COSTS             2718168.4  1269698.8  862768.4  272e41.9  567772.2  212011.7  100172.9  196474.1 6164791.4         6.1  818203.6    19.6  1204688.6
Taxes                           96248.6   32487.0   82611.6    3067.9    6186.2    2212.1    2406.6    1608.6  180S4.4          8.6   16491.2
Foreign Exchange              1556096.0  663082.0  SD6040.0  155386.9  276886.2   64881.7   4s970.e  162446.6 8461689.9          6.2  218240.2
Values Scaled by 1O00.0 6/11/1990 17:86
'CU
03
O a
MW



NATIONAL AGRICURLTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH
PROJECT
Project. Coponenta by Year
Totals Incleding Contingenci-e                                     Totalc Including Contingsncies
FCFA
t901      1992       1993       1994       109S      Total         1991      1092       1093       1994       1996      Total
A. EXTENSION                       910977.8  307721.8  372929.4  54222.7  4A910.8  2713182.4            3196.4     10.5    160.5    18012.6    1716.9    9S19.9
D. AOAPTI  ffSEARCH                527271.7  248228.9  192064.7  1C0606.   143203.2  2219690.6          1350.1      664.0      674.0      629.2     502.5    4419.0
C. TRAINMO & UEDIA                 200659.9  156566.0  129306.4  1597M3.1  12U434.0  862753.4           1016.4      549.4      450.2      660.6      450.6    3027.2
D.  USITNOA     A EVALUATI96        63400.7   61219.9   36627.6   6147.6   86119.9  272841.9             292.6      170.7      135.6      215.7      13.1       967.3
E. tUMMN3T SIDPURT                 160492.9   63796.6   68440.4  104921.J  110116.9  567772.2           6O3.3       t.0        J10.3      36.1       ue.4      192.2
F. U8-SECWTOAL SULFOR
1. SMALL RUMINANTS               7673e.6   26451.6    OOS7.1   43645.0   33118.9  212011.7            266.6       0.6       105.5      153.1      116.2      743.o           w
2. DLAND FISHERES                44768.1    9469.7   10029.6   24636.4   11062.2  100172.9            157.1       ".3        $5.2       *7.2       3.6       351.5           I
Sal-TOtal                          121501.9   37941.5   40066.7   e0463.3   44171.1  312184.6            426.6      133.1      140.7      240.6      165.0    1006.4
4. AOlICUmtWAL PULSU               122020.4   7445U.7         0.0        0.0        0.0  196474.1        42.1       261.1        0.0        0.0       0.0      066.4
Total PrOECTS COSTS               2235s25.6  1047032.2   O477.8  1067666.0  906335.0 61647M3.4          764.2     un67.0      "1.1      361.5       846.1   21701.0
Velem Scaled by 1000.0 6/11/1080 17tJS
(D
oli
wf X0



Smp Ace.a Ibyvee 1r
T.1l. Inelilmg C.w 3e) low                                   r . lZ scZludlig Ce._l.g..el
rcF                                                            us 6
son      so         am        lo        son      Tot 1ao               Im        am        low       son      Tsui
t.  ti3i1  CMI
A. mIA1M                        54MW.9        m.s  14us1.o  soNwa..   Win41  1. Isom.$          18.7       8n.*       161.3    171.8      0.7.    4816_.7
s. Now s                          uIM .a   aI1.9   1890.7   1411-0.0    611.6  f16371.6          M.         7.o       41.6       6.0       U. .     76.6
C. 0bm1W                        1746.1   36631.3   366.4    46.0   4111t6.9  4_6661.0             m1       240.6      16.0 .     1.4       16.2    1451.7
S.  MST   IESEI                 466M.4  294090.        m S .?   11167.0   a67m .7  $soon.$      13.0        M.7    110.0        241.0     13.4    MI66.6
it. pimim                        Wn0.9       u.    48M.3   4M.*   o1a40.2  us .9                 214.e     2.6        1.0       551       124.3    901.1
P. 616  MIIU                      67.          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    GM.$          W.4        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      10.4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~In
0. PW 31 SU                     1102.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   906.0          60.9,      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      16.0
T~. aUuSiinw                    is33  6766.0  61467.0  17048.4  466'.3  366617.   MM156.*       510.      13.7                 100.5  M6.    1047.3   110136.0
tt.       1T CaM
A.  mmtW Fs                      90161.4   66000.4    W.6   nom.0   010.9   o mU4Ul.0             111.6    171.9      197.9     210.2    2m.2    111.7
0. FSI 01 ItSTN                 171677.2  141919.0  171700.9  I60.0   1640.9 0 6415.7            0.1      403.1      0.1      M0.        634.6     OO1.t
C.  mUIS                         333.1   4177.0   4n11.7   44210.2   447.0  214010.0             1O.$      16.1      147.0      166.1     102.9     760.
D. SUPOT  OIOE                   84330.0   48230.3   12173.0   6417.8  t671.6  242100.8          112.4     161.9      108.4     101.6     202.1     6.8
E. FONC1_I5   V3ICULES          192201.4  141981.9  146664.0  160917.6  170427.9  01600M.7       674.4     410.0      21.8     61.8       606.0    241U.0
F. FOUMtISIOOET DIVER           14S46.0  1022.0  109094.0  110164.8  122703.2  001200.0          621.0     84.7       86.6      407.0     480.0    2100.7
Total RECUOEWT COSTS            064816.4  620474.1  631044.9  610800.7  614680.8  8046629.4     2802.7    1047.8   210l.S    no6.7    2207.7   1o666.1
Total PRO.ECT COSTS            228826.8 1047002.2  e60477.8  10n76o0.6  068868.0, 614791.4      748.2 1    677.0     019.2    816.6    s843.1  n27.o
W1.e_ Sealed by 1000.0 6/1111900 178S
x
OD
IA)_
0
X.1



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Financial Implication* for Government
1991     1992     1993      1994     1996     1996      1997     2000     2006      2010
Project Cost                            -----------------------(CFAF million) -…--…----
VYhIcles                                 584        97     lO       834       184
Equipment                                1S8        22       13       1S         7
Civil Works                              271        e8       59        4        4
Technical Assistance                     499       264       6o       68        87
Training                                  70        70       48       47       as
Invostment                                 8         0        0        0        0
PPF Investment                            19         0        0        0         0
Operating Costs                          664       626      S81      1e8       654      327      327       327      327      327
Total                          2233     1047       859     1086      951       327      827      327       3so      360
Debt Charges
Interest A Co_ itment Fe.                 11       49        78      1l6      244       306      349       258      154       64                 U,
Principal                                  0         0        0        0         0      345      349       349      349      349
Total                            11       49        78      16l      244       651      698      607       503      403
TOTAL OVTFLOWS                          2244     1096       937     1247     1196       978     1025       934      853      753
External Financing
IBRO                                   lSS      1015       631      616      397
UNDP                                     194         0        0        0         0
EDF                                       so        40      8a        20        10
Estivated taxes on project costs          3S        36       34       38        35       13       13        13       18       13
TOTAL INFLOWS                           2144      1090      701      671      442        13       13        13       13       13
Net Govt. Contribution to Costs           66       136      274      397      459       327      327       327      327      327
Govt. Contribution after debt             77      18s       362       658     703       978     1026       934      830      780
Charges
OQ 
xD
1-
Fh



- 56 -                                            Annex 10
Page 1 of 1
PEOPLE'S REPU3LIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Disburs ement Profile
IBRD's   IBRD's              Projoet's Estimted Profile                    Standard Profile
FYs     Semeters           Per Semeter        Cumulative         Per Semester       Cumulative
--------s0ooo---    ---X---          ---- 000--       -        X-
1991       I                   790      790         6                  0        0          0
II                  1106     1896       12                474       474          a
1992       I                   474     2870        16               1106     1580         10
II                   882     8002        19              1660      8160        20
1998       I                  1788     4740        0o               1788    4696          81
II                 2064      6794       48               2054      6962        44
1994       I                  2212     9006                         2212     9164         58
II                 1788    10744        6                1788    10902         69
1996       I                  1422    12           77               1264    12166         77
II                  1264       80       86               1106    18272         84
1996       I                  1106      4586       92                646    14220         90
II                   948    15484       98                790    16010          96
1997       I                   816    16800       100                790    15600        100
lo -
19~~~~~~9R  C
14 -
13-
12 
11
4-
3-
2
1131   11   1112   11   18331      I    1314    AI'lK             IE       I    I
a    IflkWE INBaF  AY   4   P13711



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION & ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Organization of the Extension Service
OPRD
DIRECTEURS REGIONAUX (10)
SErVICE DES         SERVICE DE                                           SERVICE                 SERVICE
ETtIDES ST DE  COORD94ATM                              ADMIN~~~~~~ISiRAlIF         DE L-A
LA PLAN04CATION  IECHNKM                                 ~~~~~~~~FINANCIER ET     MAINTENANCE
(SEP)  (WT)                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~DU PERSONNEL     (S?4
|rs)  (CAI)ODISTRICT
CHEFS DE SECTEUR 147)
DV CHEF DE
DPV       VPA      DCC       DA        DP       L ULGARISATION          DGRMEA                   M
(CV)
(I   (,     I (i)
LEGEND:                                                                                            ZONE
- OBRE EiDSTRICT S a
SUPERVISEUR (SP)
(6 - MERE EBISTRICT > a                                                                    6-S PAR CV
DPV - DMSION PRODUCTION VEGETALE
OPA - DMSION PRODUCTION AWNUALE
VILLAGE                VILLAGE
DOC - DMSION DU CREDIT ET DE LA COMMERCLAWSATION
DAC - DMSION DE LACTION COOPERAVE                             ENCADREUR DE           ENCADREUR DE
BASE (E.B.)            BASE (E.B.)
DP - DIVISION DE LA PISCICULTURE                              6 PAR CV                6-8 PAR SP
DV - DMSION DE LA VULGARISATION
DGRMEA - DMSION GENIE RUlRAL. MACHINISME ET EQUIPEMENT AGRICOLE
DVC - DMSION DES VILLAGES-CENTRES                                        E  ATIONS                                                       X
DM - DMSION DE LA MAINTENANCE                                                                                                EIVW46907A



- 58 -                             Annex 12
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Extension Methods and Organization
Extension MethodoloaX
1.        Each  field extension worker  (Encadreurs  de Base-EB)  would be
assigned a number of farm families in a compact area (circle), depending on
local conditions such as population density, settlement patterns, agro-
ecological and farming systems, topography and accessibility. The specific
zone assigned to an EB would be determined on the basis of a detailed survey
carried out by the agents themselves during the first two years of project
implementation.
2.        To systematically reach farmers in the operation circle, each EB
would divide it into eight zones.   In each zone,  the EB would organize
farmers into three or four groups of about 10 to 12 farmers (contact groups),
based on  location and affinities.    Extension work  schedules would be
advertized to all farmers to allow a full-day visit to each zone (and
therefore each group of a particular zone) once every fortnight on the same
day of the week. It is estimated that, during the first year of the project,
only about 25? to 30X of the farmers of a particular zone would actively
participate  in a given contact group.   This proportion is expected to
increase from 50Z to 602 during the fourth year of the project.
3.        The EB would work primarily with active members of the contact
groups, demonstrating, on the field of one of them, the cultural practices
that should be followed during the next two weeks. During each visit, the
EB would concentrate on a few selected recommendations relevant for the
particular phase of the crop cycle. The extension messages would be simple
and, at the outset, emphasis would be on low-cost improvements (e.g. correct
plant density, timely weeding, pruning and spraying of coffee and cocoa, as
well as correct crop harvesting, on-farm sto. ige, improved raising techniques
for small stock and pond construction for Aish farming) that most farmers
could afford. To reduce risk, cultural recommendations involving significant
departures from existing practices would first be recommended for adoption
on only a small part of farmers' fields. The EB would try to involve as many
farmers as possible -- especially women and youth, the most important target
groups -- in discussions and demonstrations.  He/she would also visit the
fields of non-participating farmers upon request.
4.        Each EB would spend eight days in a two-week period visiting farmer
contact groups. Another day each week would be spent alternatively attending
training sessions conducted by Subject Matter Specialists (Techniciens
Spdcialises - TSs) or programming/debriefing sessions with the Extension
Supervisors (see para 5). The last two working days in the two-week period



- 59 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 3
would be devoted to making up for missed visits or undertaking special
extension activities.
Planning and Supervision of EB Activities
5.        The activities of front-line extension agents would be planned and
monitored by Extension Supervisors. Each supervisor would oversee eight to
ten EBs, i.e. planning their fortnightly visit schedule, ensuring that the
visits are actually conducted and providing technical guidance. He/she would
spend eight days each fortnight making field visits and would also
participate in the fortnightly training sessions.   The tenth day would be
used to meet with EBs to establish their program for the next fortnight and
provide information and guidance upon request. The remaining two days would
be spent providing extra support to weaker EBs or following-up on interesting
extension-related matters.
Technical Backstopping
6.        To ensure a continuous flow of suitable farm recommendations and
the adequate training and technical backstopping of field extension workers,
technical support staff at the regional level would be strengthened.  The
project would provide one team of two to four TSs located at the headquarters
of each region.   Specialization would typically include crop production
(Techniciens Specialises de Production Vegetale - TSPV), animal production
(Techniciens Specialises de Production Animale  - TSPA)  and fish-farming
(Techniciens Specialises de Pisciculture - TSPC). The TSs would be selected
among existing MJDR and MESS staff and no additional personnel would be
required.   The TSs would have important roles as they would liaise with
farmers, extension and research.   As such, they would spend one third of
their time training EBs and supervisors, another third in field visits
providing technical support and 6uidance to field extension staff, and the
remainder in improving their own b. " ls through regular dialogue with
research workers, simple field trials and short-term training courses.
Extension Training
7.        Three kinds of training activities are planned:  (a) orientation
and refresher training; (b) in-service training; and (c) other training.
8.        Orientation and Refresher TraininR.   All extension agents would
complete a short pre-project training course (three to five days) to become
familiar with the basic elements of the T&V system.   Refresher and/or
complementary training would be given to all field extension staff to bring
their  technical  skills  to  satisfactory  levels.    In  particular,  newly
appointed or promoted TSs would take an intensive complementary training
course (one-month) in their field of specialization; staff to be involved in
adaptive research would complete a three to six months training program
conducted on-station by the concerned research institutions; and staff
involved in monitoring and evaluation activities would complete a one-month
induction training program in survey methodology and techniques.



- 60 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 3
9.        In-Service Training.  The project key extension training component
would be continuous in-service training of field-extension staff. It would
include: (a) fortnightly training sessions, and (b) monthly workshops.
10.  (a)  The fortnightly training sessions would be organized for the EBs
and their supervisors at the district level. This training would
be organized by the regional Technical Coordinator and conducted
by the TSs. Training during these one-day sessions would be very
practical and concentrate on the few specific recommendations
relevant to farming operations in the coming fortnight.   Field
extension staff would also have an opportunity to raise and discuss
problems encountered during the past two weeks. Part of the time
would be spent doing field work, practicing recommended cultural
practices. Time would also be spent learning about preparation and
use of teaching materials and communication techniques.
11.  (b)  The  monthly  workshops.       Two-day  multi-disciplinary  monthly
workshops would be organized at the regional level for TSs, Sector
Chiefs, and other selected regional extension staff, to discuss
problems identified in the field by EBs and TSs.  The frequency,
activities and composition of monthly workshops make them the key
link between extension and research. These monthly workshops would
serve mainly to train TSs but would also play a critical role in:
(i) reviewing the success of production recommendations extended
during  the past month and their acceptance by  farmers;  (ii)
selecting and discussing recommendations and impact points for the
forthcoming month after adjusting them to specific circumstances;
(iii) reviewing the program of on-going field trials, analyzing
farmer response, and suggesting topic for new trials; and (iv)
evaluating the success of fortnightly training sessions for front-
line extension agents.
12.       The monthly workshops would be organized by DRDFV s Training
Service. However, their technical content and actual implementation would
be the joint responsibility of extension and research staff. They would take
place at regional research stations or agricultural training institutions,
with regular visits to field trial locations, to review and discuss progress
in adaptive research efforts.
13.       Other Training.   The project would also  include  a series of
workshops for senior staff, to be conducted by consultants. These workshops
would focus on topics such as general management principles, communication
and extension skills with emphasis on specific problems related to female and
young farmers, media production farm management, operation of the adaptive
research program, and monitoring and evaluation. In addition, a variety of
in-service training would be offered throughout the project period to upgrade
the technical skills of extension and adaptive research staff on the basis
of specific skills gaps identified during project implementation. Finally,
study tours for senior staff would be arranged under the project to
neighboring countries with operational T&V systems, so that they can learn
from the experience of others involved in the reform of extension services.



- 61 -
Annex 13
PGe, 1 of a
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Table 1.   With/Without Project Yield Assumptions
Increase
Without              Under
Improved             Improved
Practices            Practices 1/
…------- Tons/ha ------
A.    Food Crops
Cassava                  6.6                 0.9
Other Tubers              6.6                0.8
Maize                    0.7                 0.1
Plantains/Bananas         4.0                0.8
Grour.dnuts              0.6                 0.1
Rice                      0.8                0.2
B.    Commercial Crops
Cocoa                    0.36                0.06
Coffee                   0.26                0.04
1/   The basic assumption is that yields under the proj.-t would increase by a factor of
about 15% over yields Nithout project.



- 62 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Analysis (Cont'd)
Table 2. Cropped Area Under Project and Production Increases
---------------- Project Year ------------
PYl      PY2       PY3       PY:      PYS 1/
onward
------------------ Number ----------------
- Number of Extension Agents              261       341      388       411       411
- Estimated Active Population  2/   87,860  119,350  128,100  143,860  143,850
- Percentage of National Active Farm
Population                             38       48        62        58       58
-- ---------------- Hectares --------------
- Total Area Under Project  3/         70,280   96,480  102,480  116,080  125,080
- Area Under Improved Practices  4/ 10,642   14,322   15,372   17,2e2   17,282
of which:  5/
Cassava (26%)                    4,744    6,446    6,917    7,788    7,788
Yams (16%)                       1,681    2,148    2,308    2,689    2,589
Maize (12%)                      1,286    1,719    1,845    2,071    2,071
Plantains/Bananas (15)          1,681    2,148    2,308    2,689    2,589
Cocoa (8%)                         843    1,148    1,230    1,381    1,381
Coffee (S%)                        S27       71B       789      863       883
------------------- Tons -----------------
- Estimated Increases in Production 8/
Cassava                          4,270    5,800    8,226    8,991    8,991
Yams                             1,306    1,772    1,902    2,138    2,138
Maize                              133       180       194      218       218
Plantains/Bananas                  949    1,289    1,383    1,664    1,564
Cocoa                               44        80        65       73        73
Coffee                              20        27        29       32        32
1/   As of PY6, cropped area and production increases are assumed to remain constant
2/ Average number of active rural population per Extension Agent: 350
!/   Average area per farmer: 0.8 ha., assumed to remain unchanged over the project period
4/   Proportion of area under improved practices: 26% of area under project
!./  The percentage in brackets corresponds to the area covered by each crop as a percentage
of national cropped area
6J   Soe Tablo 1 for yield assumptions



- 63 -                                               Annex 13
Page 3 of 3
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CONGO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPT:VE RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Analysis (Cont'd)
Table 3: Not Economic Benefits
PYl     PY2      PY8     PY4      PYS         1996
1991    1992    1998    1994    1996         To 2014
-------------------- CFAF Million ------------------
A. Benefits (Value of
Increased Production)
-  Cassava                         427      680     628      699      699          699
-  Yams                             e6       89       96     107      107          107
-  Maize                            11       15       16      18       18           18
-  Plantains/Bananas                76      103      111     124      124          124
-  Cocoa                             9       12       13      15       15           15
-  Coffee                            5        7        7       8        8            8
Total Benefits                     693      806      866     972      972          972
B. Costs
-  Extension                       797      309     280      383      a31          165
-  Adaptive Research               466      196      147     113      103           80
- Training, Rural Promotion
A Media                      233     121       96      113      88           39
-  Monitoring A Evaluation          68       40       29      44       28           24
-  Management Support              153       70       70      78       78           48
-  Sub-Sectcral Activities         106       32       32      60       82           14
Physical Contingencies              95       60       48      42       39           26
Total Costs                      1,918      827      700     822      697          396
C.  Net Benefits                    -1,324      -21      168      150     276          678
Table 4: Economic Rate of Return (ERR) end Sensitivity Analysis
Base
Case        Sensitivity Analysis
Number of Active Pop. Per Extension Agent-          360      876       400       300      300
--------------------  -----------------
Area Covered Under Improved Practices                26       20        26        20        26
Yield Increase                                       16       15        10        15        12
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                        19       15        13        10        10



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20853
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO                                                                           CENTRAL  AFRICAN   REPUBLIC    f
REPUBLIQUE POPULAIRE DU CONGO                                                                   \                        _
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION                                                                                                                                    '1
AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT                                                                              \
PROJET NATIONAL DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE ET                                                                                                                          ......
DE RECHERCHE D'ACCOMPAGNEMENT                                                              CAMEROON
PROJECT HEADQUARTERS
SIEGE DU PFROET r 
REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS                                           r           - -  -                                                                    O
DIRECTION REGIONALES  t7   Tt4*   t   i   |  .  }  L!.
TRAINING CENTER                                                                                               N       /.
CENTRE DE FORMATION                                                  /                                            2                                Np _
RESEARCH STATION                                                   / ,M.
STA rON DE RECHERCHE                                           \                                                                                        7
A     RESEARCH SUBSTATIONS                                                 .r       '       \           4                                       EH'          /
SOUS-STATIONS DO RECHERCHE                                         .                                     GA
O    TECHNICAL SUPPORT CENTERS
CENTRES DAPPFU TECHNIQUE (CAT)    REGIONAL POPUIATION DENSITY kL.', 11986.                                                   x /       -
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL                   DENSTE DE FOFLIASON (FAR REGION; 1RA      T
CAP/rALE:_                                                                                                              7           ..t
C MAIN T                                           MORE THAN 10 PIUS DE 10         1,  R                                  .
FORESTS                                      4A
FORETS                                      I .
U'              INUNDATED FORESTS                              -                                                                                   ,
FORETS INONDEES                               S T     I    N     I            ,
-        PRIMARY ROADS, PAVES                                               TS I   V   E                                          T 
ARTERES PRINCIPALES, AVE
PRIMARY ROADS, GRAVEL AND EARTH                                                                                                                                 ZAIRE
ARTERES PRINCIPALES. GRAVIER ET TERRE
-  SECONDARY ROADS, EARTH
ROUTES SECONDAIRES. TERRE                                                             I                         "                8;.L8 8
RAIIWAYS                                                    GABON
VOLES FERRES                                                                           -                 1/,              -  TR
FIEUVES                                                                                                                                        L                       IS  KILO.LERS
_ MARSHES                                                                                      ? |          o                                                         50          1R MILES
MARAIS                                              ATAMio                            i     f         '                                      "            I
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                   ./,'   S.  .SGoL                       /=
r2              LIMiTES DE REGION                                                                                              7 ,
INTERNATIONALRORNRARIES                                           NMaVr,               ,       i/A, T E.'A  UX 
FRONTIERES INTERNATSONALES                                                                                                                                                            I M-'W"  J,  [AM   /  /  18'
NLHA                                  ,-  N   ~~~~~~~~~~CHAD
'MM  1j R                                                                                  )     NIGERIA      /              'i        SUDAN
I                   NHEWp  -HA   g  |  @  A  v.^ tZ   is  1                X       >       CENTRAL L
.   )    /   t he    iL E KOm    u M O U    ,                .51                               AFRICAN REP.
CAMEROON
DI. DAIW:A
Ai,  7,                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?PEOPLRAj
SAO TOR    GAHON  '~REP>J
Oce                                                                                                                                                              T              ZAIRH
CONGO/A
Atlantic                                       p'FN*  S                    OLNA- I-
OCC   O                                M,4"" )laAn                    :\                                              ZAIR
<t3%O<  \s~~~~~~~'&i. ~~~~RH  N  kk' ~~~~ANGOLA                                                  k
r ZAAEIA
APRIL HER8



IBRD 21133
10-                                  1?                                   Ie                                    It 1e
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO                                                                           CENTRAL  AFRICAN   REPUBLIC    (
REPUBLIQUE POPULAIRE DU CONGO                                                                   \                         ,,-'-  .                          '
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION                                                                                                 j                                "
AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT                                                                             \
PROJET NATIONAL DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE ET                                                                       '                        l
DE RECHERCHE D'ACCOMPAGNEMENT                                                              CAMEROON -
PHASING OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.
OEROULTEMENT CHRONOICOGOUE DU PROJET,
PILOT PHASE                                                                                                                                    R
PHASE PILOTE                                            _  - .jr                                                              5  
PHASE ONE                                                                                       >_
r                PREAMEE PHASE                                                                                                                  I2
PHASE TWO                                                                                                                     2                        L
DEUXlEME PHASE                                               I                                                     0
PHASE THREE
TROISIEME PHASE                                                         '"                                                    N.
NOT INCLUDED UNDER PROJECT
PAS INC1US CAN5 LE PROJET                                                                                                      /
o     TECHNICAL SUPPORT CENTERS                                                             )                                         \
CENTRES DAPPUI TECHNIQUE JCAT)                                              I.
3     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                ,      > ,                                    a
CA P1TALE                                                                     JN ~ S, 
O     MAIN TOWNS
VILIES PRINCIPALES                                                         I                                                           'N
-LL       -     PRIMARY ROADS. PAVED                                                         ,    k,M                                                              /
ARrERES PRINCIPALES. PAVE
PRLMARY ROADS, GRAVEL AND EARTH                                                   .         .                                                     ;
ARrERES PRINCIPAIES. GRAVIER ET rERRE                                            1   -                .- \
------  SECONDARY ROADS. EARTH                                                                                                                                            Z '  ZAIRE
ROUrES SECONDAIRES. TERRE                                                                                            ---_
RAILWAYS
VO/ES FERRES                                                G
RIVERS                                                      GABON                         ,                                       LMA.A0  -
FLEUVES
MARSHES                                                                               4                                 , ' 
MARAIS                                                                         r              DMA                                              D 0      R  I0          100   R0IOMETERS
-____   DISTRICT EOUNDARIES                                                                   ct.'-- /                                                     T|OO                   150 MILES
lIMITED OP DISTRICT                                 km ANAo                                                                                    ,         
.    REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                                       -    :                        "=   "'
-i'             LIMITESDE REGION                                  i                                I                                       7'
-    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                           U '   OMVj.'  /                                                            "'0
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONAIPS                 ,S                                                                          j                                I.'
'~~~~~~~'  ~~~~~~~~~                                            A~~~~~~~~~~ ~~CHAD  L
r5 Lvdenct'                                                 1M        ~     tNIGERIA                       /  I                      SUDAN
CN.4                    *~~~~~~~  ~~' ~ CENTRAL
AFRICAN REP.
/CAMHEROON                         'N
TO                                                                            '><,EQ.DA JN                ( -
,XL ,o .NA~                                                                                         O _
o x Ž/  ~~~~~~~~~\       \    RMAAM              ~~~~~~~~~~~SAOGTIT    GARON  \rH
OCO OIl  PMM-R.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                ,H                       ZAIRE~~~~~~&P   P                         C.ZAR
ANGOLA
ID'                           rH                                    'o                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZAMEIA
SEPTEMBEETRB



