Document of
The World Bank
t*lE  OPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3388b-PAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
PANAMA
May 21, 1981
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Balboa
US$1.00        =  B/. 1.00
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
1 meter (m)                =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2   =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )  =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (ton)         =  1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AADT      -  Annual Average Daily Traffic
AASHTO    -  American Association of State Highway Transportation Officials
APN       -  National Port Authority (Autoridad Portuaria Nacional)
BNP       -  National Bank of Panama (Banco Nacional de Panama)
CLCR      -  Chiriqui Land Company Railway
COPA      -  Panamanian Aviation Co. (Compania Panamena de Aviacion, S.A.)
CPA       -  Directorate of Pan-American Highway of Engineering within MOP
DAC       -  Direccion de Aeronautica Civil (Civil Aviation Authority)
DDI       -  Directorate of Design and Inspection within MOP
DET       -  Directorate of Equipment and Workshops within MOP
DI        -  Directorate of Fixed Plant within MOP
DMV       -  Directorate of Highway Maintenance within MOP
DPE       -  Directorate of Special Projects within MOP
DTLT      -  Directorate of Transit and Land Transport within MOP
DV        -  Directorate of Valorization within MOP
HDM       -  Highway Design and Maintenance
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Bank
IGN       -  National Geographic Institute within MOP
ILO       -  International Labor Organization
LCB       -  Local Competitive Bidding
MIPPE     -  Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy (Ministerio de
Planificacion y Politica Economica)
MOP       -  Ministry of Public Works (Ministerio de Obras Publicas)
NTS       -  National Transport Survey
ORP       -  Price Regulation Office
PCR       -  Panama Canal Railway
Ro-Ro     -  Roll-on/Roll-off
SENAFORP  -  Servicio Nacional de Formacion Profesional
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Program
VOC       -  Vehicle Operating Cost
vpd       -  Vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
PANAMA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ......................................                          1
A.   General  .         ...............................................
B.   The Transport  System  ..................................1
C. Sectoral Coordination, Planning, Financing and
Regulation  ..........................................                        4
LI.   ROAD TRANSPORT  ............................................                          5
A.   General  ...........           ....................................              5
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic  ....                 ........        5
C.   Operation and Organization of the Industry  ....                 ........        6
D.   Regulations of Weights and Dimensions  ....                  .............       7
II.   THE ROAD SUBSECTOR  ........................................                          8
A.   The Network  ...........................................                         8
B.   Administration  ........................................                         9
C.   Planning  ..............................................                       10
D.   Financing  .............................................                        11
E.   Engineering  ...........................................                       11
F. Construction ...............                                                     12
C.   Maintenance  ...........................................                        12
H.   Workshops and Equipment Maintenance  ...................                        13
I.   Training  ..............................................                       14
IV.  PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE FOR ROADS  ....                     .............     15
A.   General  ...............................................                        15
B.   Ongoing Highway Maintenance Project  ...................                        15
V.   THE PROJECT  ...............................................                         17
A.   Objectives  and General Description  ....................                       17
B.   MOP's Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program (1981-1985)                        17
C.   The Project's Road Rehabilitation Program  ....                 .........       19
D.   Upgrading of Maintenance Capacity under the Project  ...                        21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Panama during December 1980. The mission comprised Messrs. W. Matthey
(Engineer), Martin Staab (Economist) and A. Byl (Economist). The report has
been edited by Miss V. R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.  THE PROJECT (Continued)
E.  Technical Assistance for Transport Planning ....           .........    22
F.  Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement ....           ..........    23
G.  Execution, Procurement and Monitoring ...................    25
H.  Project Risks ...........................................    26
VI.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION .........................................    27
A.  Formulation of the Program ..............................    27
B.  Traffic .................................................    28
C.  Benefits ................................................    28
D.  Economic Return and Sensitivity .........................    29
E.  Benefit Distribution ....................................    29
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......................    30
TABLES
1.1 Domestic and International Freight Traffic by Mode in
Selected years, 1967-1980 .............................    32
1.2  Passenger Traffic by Mode in Selected Years, 1967-1980 ..    33
1.3  International Port Traffic in Selected Years, 1970-1980..    34
1.4 Public Investment Expenditures in the Transport Sector,
1970-1980 .............................................    35
1.5 Transport Investment Budget, 1981, and List of Possible
Transport Projects, 1981-1985 .........................    36
2.1  Road Traffic on Sample Links ............................    37
2.2  Consumption of Petroleum Products .......................    38
2.3  Vehicle Imports and Vehicle Fleet 1960-1980 ....          .........    39
2.4  Road Vehicle Operating Costs ............................    40
3.1 Past and Projected Development of the Highway Network,
1969-1985   .............................................         41
3.2  Financing of Road Investments 1970-1980 ....            .............    42
3.3 Road Expenditures and Receipts, 1974-1985,
Selected Years ........................................    43
3.4  MOP Highway Design Standards ............................    44
5.1 MOP Five-Year Physical Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Program, 1981-1985 .....................    45
5.2 Projected Expenditures for Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Program 1981-1985 .....................................    46
5.3 Roads to be Rehabilitated during First, Second and Third
Phases of Project .....................................  47-49
5.4  List of New Equipment and Spare Parts to be Procured ....            50
5.5  Implementation Schedule .................................    51



- 11ll -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Completed Bank-Financed Highway Projects ....            ..........   52
2.  Outline of Proposed Technical Assistance  ....           ..........   53
3. Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File .......................................   56
CHARTS
World Bank 22582 - MOP Organization  ......          .................   57
World Bank 22583 - Proposed DET Organization ....            ..........   58
MAP
IBRD 15638 - Panama Road Rehabilitation Project






I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      Panama is divided lengthwise by a mountain range and across by the
Panama Canal. As a result, the country has developed on two main axes: one
north-south along the Panama Canal, and the other east-west along the Pacific
Coast in the south of the countrv and west of the Colon-Panama City Corridor.
To the southeast of the Colon and Panama provinces lies the relatively
unexplored Darien province with the narrow Comarca of San Blas to the north.
These two areas of dense rain forests are relatively undeveloped, sparsely
populated and without land transport facilities; air travel and coastal ship-
ping are almost the only means of transportation available.
B.   The Transport System
1.02      The transport system in the developed areas of the country  is
broadly adequate; road transport is the basic mover of domestic freight
and passengers. About 97% of all domestic freight traffic and 99% of
passenger traffic is carried by road (Tables 1.1 and 1.2).
1.03      The most important international transport facilities are the
Tocumen International Airport, the Panama Canal, the Canal ports of Cristobal
(near Colon) and Balboa (near Panama City) and the Pan-American Highway. The
Panama Canal, its ports and ancillary facilities, including a trans-isthmian
railway and a small oil products pipeline, carry an important part of the
international cargo traffic, while the canal ports handle most of Panama's
general imports. The Pan-American Highway, although handling only 5% of the
international traffic, is playing a growing role in the development of inter-
regional commerce. International passenger traffic is mainly by air (some 80%).
(i) Roads and Road Transport
1.04      The transport industry is dealt with in Chapter II and road infra-
structure, for which the Ministry of Public Works (MOP) is responsible, in
Chapter III. Some expansion and upgrading, especially for secondary and
feeder roads, would be necessary to meet growing requirements and to give
access to areas presently isolated and undeveloped. Maintenance and rehabili-
tation of the existing network are the highest priorities in the subsector.
(ii) Ports and Shipping
1.05      Panama has two major general cargo port complexes around the cities
of Colon and Panama and two major oil port facilities. Colon, on the Atlantic
Ocean, handles most goods. Its main facilities are at Cristobal, one of the
two former Canal Zone ports, Bahia Las Minas, Pier 3 and Folks River. Bahia
Las Minas has recently been adapted to serve the fast growing roll-on/roll-off
(Ro-Ro) traffic originating from Miami. The Panama City area on the Pacific



- 2 -
has one main port, Balboa, and a minor "fiscal pier," mainly used by fishing
vessels. In 1980, a new fishing port facility, built with financial support
from the Bank (Loan 1114-PAN, US$24.0 million, April 1975), was opened at
Vacamonte, south of Panama City. Cristobal and Balboa operate as ports for
vessels in-transit through the Canal, but also as ports of entry for Panama.
More than 13,000 ocean-going and about 4,000 small vessels per year have
passed through the Canal in the past ten years, or between 35 and 40 vessels
per day. Because of this central location on the world's main ocean routes,
Panamanian ports receive a larger number of calls by ships than other ports
in the world, but calls are sometimes made for small amounts of cargo to be
loaded or unloaded. Panamanian oil port terminals move a considerable amount
of oil because the two major facilities, Charco Azul near Armuelles and Bahia
de Parita near Aguadulce, are mainly used for transshipment of Alaskan oil into
smaller vessels, to allow passage through the Canal.
1.06      In 1979, Panamanian ports moved some 35.4 million metric tons of
imports and exports, 2.1 million tons of general cargo and 32.1 million tons
of oil; 53% of the general cargo was accounted for by the Colon and Panama
area ports. Almirante and Armuelles, primarily banana ports, took a further
35%, and the remainder was shared by five smaller ports which are important
only for coastal shipping (Table 1.3).
1.07      The shipping companies serving Panama are all foreign-owned.  Panama
is a flag-of-convenience country, and the ocean-going fleet registered in
Panama is quite large (2,875 vessels in 1979). Most of this fleet does not
operate in Panama. The Government's receipts from this registration equaled
US$5.9 million in 1979.
1.08      Panama has approximately 2,900 km of coastline.  While the initial
development of the Chiriqui province and along the Azuero Peninsula was made
possible by coastal shipping, the relative importance of this mode regressed
after the advent of the Pan-American Highway. Cabotage traffic statistics,
although not complete, indicate that traffic, after declining in 1977,
increased from about 60,000 metric tons to almost 80,000 tons in 1979. The
number of ships calling in the different ports has also increased. This is
attributed to the advent of faster ships and the increased cost of road
transport due to the increased cost of fuel.
1.09      At present, the number of ports in the country is adequate in the
sense that there are no hinterlands which remain underdeveloped for lack of
a port outlet. The main areas that require attention are the maintenance and
normal replacement of structures and equipment at existing ports, especially
at the ports of Balboa and Cristobal, and the rationalization of the port
system serving coastal shipping, to reduce congestion at the cabotage docks
in Panama and Colon. The Autoridad Portuaria Nacional (APN), the autonomous
port authority, also needs strengthening in order to be able to modernize
and administer effectively the Panamanian port system. APN is completing
the preparation of a modernization program related to the above objectives
and is seeking Bank support for its financing.



-3-
(iii) Airports and Aviation
1.10      Air transport is under the administration of the Civil Aviation
Authority (Direccion de Aeronautica Civil-DAC), which was created in 1969
and is responsible for all aspects of airport planning, operations, traffic
control and regulation. The relative importance of domestic aviation has
declined in recent years following the upgrading and paving of the road
system.  After the second World War, Panama had a total of over 200 landing
strips,  of which only 140 remained listed by DAC on December 31, 1979 and
of which only eight handled a significant volume of commercial traffic.
1.11      Total air passenger traffic grew to almost 2 million in 1979.
Tocumen, the only airport which handles regularly scheduled international
traffic, now on the order of almost 1.3 million international passengers per
year, including some 350,000 transit passengers, has a new terminal and
runway, partly financed by the Bank (Loan 783-PAN, US$20 million, August 21,
1971).  In spite of the decline in relative importance, domestic passenger
traffic has grown steadily to a total level of over 660,000 yearly arrivals
and departures.
(iv) Railways
1.12      There are three small railway companies in Panama with a total of
about 400 km of rail: the Panama Canal Railway (PCR); the Chiriqui Land
Company Railway (CLCR), which is completely integrated into the Standard
Brands banana production system; and the Chiriqui National Railway (FNC),
which is gradually being phased out and has only 30 km of track remaining.
The most important of the three is PCR, the ownership of which recently
reverted to Panama and is now under the management of APN, although there are
plans to create a separate railway authority. In 1979, PCR carried about
600,000 passengers and about 200,000 tons of cargo on its 76-km line between
Panama and Colon. Passenger traffic has been steadily decreasing while
freight traffic has remained fairly constant. APN has recently signed a
contract with a consortium of Japanese and local consultants for a study,
financed from the recently approved Colon Urban Project (Loan 1878-PAN, US$35
million, August 7, 1980), to determine the economic role of this railway.
(v) Pipelines
1.13      The prospect of transporting petroleum products across the isthmus
from the tanker transshipment terminal at Puerto Armuelles on the Pacific to a
new terminal to be built near Bocas del Toro on the Atlantic has been considered
for some time. Today, that traffic is carried mostly by smaller tankers
through the Canal. The Government and Petroterminal de Panama (PTP), a
joint venture in which the Government has a 25% interest (reportedly to
be increased to 40%) have recently announced plans for the construction of a
130-km trans-isthmian pipeline near the border with Costa Rica at a cost of
roughly US$250 million, with completion by the mid-1980s. This pipeline not
only should decrease the congestion in the Panama canal, but also should
reduce the cost of shipping Alaskan crude to the eastern seaboard of the
United States. The pipeline will reportedly have a capacity of 700,000
barrels per day. This project, although nominally a transport project, would
net affect dometic t-Ansport demand and would be financially self-supporting
(para 1.16).



- 4 -
C.   Sectoral Coordination, Planning, Financing and Regulation
1.14      Overall coordination and planning for the sector is the responsibility
of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy (MIPPE). There is no Ministry
of Transport. While this system could work effectively and may have certain
advantages in Panama, MIPPE has not, so far, carried out the coordinating
role nor is it organized to do so. Modal agencies (MOP, APN and DAC) submit
their investment plans to MIPPE for review and approval. MIPPE, however, does
not have the staff or appropriate comparable data to screen these proposals
effectively with relation to priorities and sectoral policies, which themselves
need better definition. The Office of Sectoral Planning within MIPPE is being
reorganized to enable it to coordinate sectoral planning and budgeting. This
effort would be supported by the project (para 5.20).
1.15      Public investments in the transport sector, which accounted for 22%
of the total public investment in 1970-1973, accounted for only 15% in 1974-1980.
Road investments have consumed the major portion (62%) of transport investments
in the past decade, even in those years in which heavy port investments were
undertaken (1977-1979). Airports, mainly Tocumen (1975-1977), consumed 21% and
ports 17%. Road investment's share of total public investment spending was
about 9% between 1973 and 1980 after having averaged as much as 20% during the
three previous years. Overall, the transport sector was surpassed only by
Power and Telecommunications, and by Social Services in the Government's
investment effort (Table 1.4).
1.16      The list of transport investment projects for the period 1981-1985,
which is still under review, now includes projects for a total of some US$427
million, with roads under MOP's jurisdiction accounting for 77% (paras 3.08-3.09);
ports under APN for 18%; and airports under DAC for 5.0%. This project-by-
project list of roads with subtotals for the other subsectors is presented
in Table 1.5 and summarized by subsector below. The list does not include the
recently announced investment of US$250 million for a trans-isthmian oil
pipeline (para 1.13). The Government will not have to contribute to the
financing of this investment and will become a shareholder by foregoing
taxes and royalty payments until its shares have been paid.
Transport Investment Budget, 1981, and Subtotals by Subsector
of Possible Transport Investments, 1981-1985
(in millions of 1981 US dollars for the Budget
and 1980 US dollars for the Plan)
Budget                    Plan
1981   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985    Total
MOP (Roads)               63.8    63.9   99.3   83.1   65.8   21.5   328.6
Initiated Projects      61.0    63.9   82.3   56.1   35.3    2.1   239.7
New Projects             2.8       -    12.0   27.0   30.5   19.4    88.9
APN (Ports)               16.6    12.9   12.7   18.5   23.9   10.7    78.7
DAC (Airports)              -       1.8    6.4    4.3    5.6    1.9    20.0
Grand Total               80.4    78.6  113.4  105.9   95.3   34.1   427.3
Source: Table 1.5



- 5 -
1.17      User charges in the transport sector, during the period
1970-1980, have fallen short of covering total expenditures. While the
port subsector as a whole and most of the individual ports have been
financially self-sufficient, net receipts at Tocumen airport have become
insufficient to cover the deficits at the country's other smaller airports.
In the road subsector, total expenditures for investment and maintenance
have regularly been higher than road user charges, but rarely have these
expenditures been substantially out of line (para 3.11), and, with some
relatively modest increases in road and airport-related user taxes, financial
self-sufficiency in these subsectors and, hence, in the whole sector, could be
achieved.
1.18      Regulatory controls for the country's port system and aviation
industry are administered by the two Government-owned autonomous institutions--
Autoridad Portuaria Nacional (APN) and DAC. Both institutions set their own
tariffs, operating practices, safety and other standards. Coastal shipping
is, for all practical purposes, unregulated and works quite well, with no
persistent complaints from users. The road freight transport industry is also
basically unregulated (para 2.05). The structure of urban passenger transport,
which has been heavily regulated with unsatisfactory results, is being studied
(para 2.08).
II. ROAD TRANSPORT
A.   General
2.01      The development of road transport followed the improvement and
extension of the highway network. The main traffic flows are found on the
Panama-Colon road and on the Pan-American Highway. Petroleum products
(about 1.2 million tons per year) constitute the largest single commodity
moved by highway, followed by construction materials and cement. Among
the freight carriers, the international traffic between Central America and
Panamanian ports using semitrailers and containers represents the most modern
and sophisticated segment of the industry. This traffic is operated mostly by
foreign transport companies. Beer and soft drinks also account for important
flows, usually carried by single-vehicle operators. Finally, there is the
large flow of agricultural products (grain, cereals, fruits and sugar)
transported mostly by single vehicle operators or farm-owned vehicles. For
passengers, two distinct bus services are offered: long distance and inter-
rational services by well established companies and local services by owner-
operators.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
2.02      Traffic counts have been carried out by MOP in a systematic way
since 1966. In spite of the many changes in the locations of counting
stations and in the criteria for vehicle classifications made over the
years, the total number of survey stations and the general usefulness of
the counts on primary roads, especially paved, have consistently improved.



- 6 -
Traffic data on secondary, gravel and earth roads still need improvement since
counts on these roads have not been systematic. The latest MOP surveys indicate
that the Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT) ranges from more than 21,900 on
paved roads near Panama toward Colon to about 100 on secondary roads at the
lower end of the scale (Table 2.1). On the Pan-American Highway, traffic
varies between 313 vehicles per day (vpd) near Chepo (east of Panama City) and
9,939 vpd near Chorrera (west of Panama City). This relatively high traffic
level indicates the degree of development of road transport in Panama.
2.03      Traffic composition, by vehicle type, is fairly uniform on the
several types of roads, with light vehicles accounting for about 54% of the
traffic, trucks 33% (about 20% heavy trucks) and buses about 13%. Analysis
of traffic count data, over a number of years, at specific census stations on
paved roads, indicates a typical growth rate of about 4% p.a. On gravel and
earth roads, information is scant and unreliable, but, based on similar
analysis of available data and general indicators, traffic appears to have
been growing at an average of about 5% p.a. General indicators, such as
annual growth of vehicle fuel consumption and vehicle registration, show rates
that are consistent with the estimated traffic growth rates, in particular for
the last six-year period (Tables 2.2 and 2.3).
2.04       The total vehicle fleet grew at about 8.7% per annum between 1970 and
1979: passenger cars and trucks grew at about 7.9% and 9.1% respectively and
are concentrated in Panama Province, which, having only about 17% of the
highway network, accounts for 50% of all trucks and 75% of all buses. The
major part of the heavy vehicle fleet (85% of trucks and 93% of buses) is used
to provide public transport services, while the rest is owned by commercial
and industrial enterprises or farmers. In general, average vehicle utiliza-
tion rates, measured in terms of annual kilometers, are quite low for buses
(28,000 km) and for light, medium and heavy size trucks (22,000, 25,000 and
36,000 km respectively), which results in high operating costs. Estimates
of road vehicle operating costs for different vehicles on different road
surfaces and conditions were made with the Bank's Highway Design and Main-
tenance Model (HDM) and are given in Table 2.4.
C.   Operation and Organization of the Industry
2.05      Both the truck and the bus industries are divided into single-vehicle
owners on the one side and multi-vehicle companies on the other.  In the
trucking industry, single-vehicle owners account for about 70% of the fleet,
but only about 30% of the capacity.  The markets served by the single-vehicle
owners and the trucking companies are clearly divided, the former handling
agricultural products and serving rural communities and the latter dominating
the more lucrative import-export markets and, especially, the distribution of
manufactured products. The trucking companies use the larger and newer
vehicles with capacity of over 20 tons, while the vast majority of the single-
vehicle owners use much older and smaller vehicles with an average capacity of
six tons. Truck tariffs, with the exception of those for petroleum products,
are not regulated, which has worked to the advantage of both the users and the
industry.



-7-
- 7 -
2.06      In the trucking industry, there is a large discrepancy in managerial
and financial resources between small domestic truckers and large international
operations. National companies have limited access to international traffic,
wlhich is controlled by foreign firms providing integrated intermodal services.
Three of these firms provide container services and two more carry out Ro-Ro
operations through Panamanian ports with destinations in Panama and in-transit
to Central America.
2.07      Single--vehicle owners are associated in coooperatives and syndicates.
The oldest cooperative was organized by the Government in 1972 to answer the
need for improved passenger urban transport services. It operates in competi-
tion with other cooperatives formed by operators. The syndicates, which
include most urban passenger and freight transport operators, are grouped in
the Central Panamena de Transportes. Rural passenger transport is mostly
conducted by simultaneously transporting both passengers and small loads,
often using old special-body vehicles called "chivas," which offer a low
quality of service. They subsist mostly as a result of the limitations to
modernization and renewal arising from: (a) the low economic capacity of the
less developed rural areas they serve, substantially limiting the financial
possibilities of the bus owner; and (b) the poor maintenance of the rural road
system, particularly during the rainy season, which discourages the entry of
more modern vehicles on these routes.
2.08      Bus tariffs are regulated by the Price Regulation Office (ORP),
an autonomous Government agency. Two distinct types of passenger services are
offered: long distance and urban services, the latter being offered mostly by
owner-operators, running from one to at most four or five minibuses. Minibuses
with an average seating capacity of 12 passengers comprise about 66% of the
total bus fleet, while the larger buses, with an average seating capacity of
45 passengers, account for the remainder. The Directorate of Transit and Land
Transport (DTLT) favors the small operators by granting only one license per
individual on the presumption that these individuals would otherwise be
unemployed. In addition, the Government exempts cooperative members from
paying certain vehicle import and other taxes. These licensing practices,
combined with the regulation of fares, have prevented potentially more
efficient companies from entering the industry, which has had the effect of
reducing competition, lowering the quality of service and maintaining high bus
operating costs. The shortage of buses and the unsatisfactory operation
of the system in the Metropolitan area have prompted the Government to under-
take, with Japanese aid, a study of public transport problems in Panama City.
The Bank has commented on the terms of reference for this study, and the
Government intends to have the Bank participate in the discussion of the
short-term and long-term recommendations.
D.   Regulations of Weights and Dimensions
2.09      Vehicle weights and dimensions are regulated by Law 23 of January
1967, which complements Decrees 75 and 159. This law regulated weight and
size for all cargo vehicles. However, in 1974, the Government, in the midst
of the recession that was affecting the industry, and at the request of the
trucking unions, suspended enforcement of Law 23. Overloading became



- 8 -
widespread. Enforcement of the existing law has been resumed since 1979.
The law allows heavier axle loads (10 tons) on the Pan-American Highway than
on the rest of the network (8.5 tons), and does not provide effective sanctions.
MOP, aware of this problem, has prepared a new draft law which specifies
sanctions and which would limit the axle load to 10 metric tons for single
axles, 16.4 tons for double and 22.5 tons for triple axles on all public roads
in the country.
2.10      MOP operates four stations which weigh trucks on a routine basis;
however, two of the stations are not suitable for weighing individual axles.
New stations are needed on the Colon-Panama City road and on the Pan-American
Highway east of Panama City. The proposed project would include the moderniza-
tion of selected weighing stations, the installation of new ones, provision of
mobile weighing equipment and the organization of an awareness campaign to pre-
pare the public, the police and the traffic judges for effective enforcement.
At the time of negotiations, the Government confirmed that it would improve
permanent and consistent enforcement of vehicle weight regulations.
III. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A.   The Network
3.01      Panama's highway network totals some 8,400 km, of which about
2,714 km are paved, 3,168 km have gravel surfacing and 2,518 km are earth
feeder roads. Road development has been concentrated, in the last decade, on
paving and improving the more heavily trafficked roads. While the road system
grew by 25% between 1969 and 1980, the paved and gravel road networks grew by
almost 77% and 167% respectively. Earth roads, in turn, decreased from a 60%
share of the total network to 30% at present. This trend is expected to
continue. The execution of the projects contained in the proposed 1981-1985
road investment plan, which may take up to a decade to complete, would further
increase the network total by almost 5% (to 8,680 km) while increasing paved
and gravel road lengths by 28% (to 3,480 km) and 24% (to 3,930 km) respectively,
leaving only 15% of the projected network unsurfaced (Table 3.1).
3.02      The distances between developed regions are relatively short in
Panama. The longest one, between the Costa Rican border and Panama City, is
only about 480 km. The route used for this journey is the Pan-American
Highway. It crosses the country from west to east with a few unfinished
sections in the Darien region to the east of the Canal. The Pan-American
Highway is the main trunk road in the system, from which the rest of the
network radiates. The longest "feeder" to this road, about 110 km, is located
in the Azuero Peninsula, the widest part of the country. Most of the road
network traverses flat and rolling terrain that is suitable for agriculture
and cattle raising. The network located to the north of the Pan-American
Highway runs through mountainous terrain where heavy rainfall is normal.
On these roads, the resulting high construction and maintenance costs make
improvement difficult to justify economically.



- 9 -
3.03      Average road density is just above 100 km per 1,000 km2 or about 5 km
per 1,000 inhabitants, which, although low compared with that of more densely
populated neighboring Costa Rica, is well above the average for Latin America.
Furthermore, given the large uninhabited areas in the country, these average
density figures can be misleading. Coverage of the present network is basic-
ally adequate, but increasing traffic volumes and insufficient maintenance
over the past 15 years resulted in an increased need for paved roads, as well
as in much of the network falling into poor condition.
P.. Administration
3.04      MOP is responsible for practically all highway work in the country.
It is also responsible for the construction and maintenance of urban streets,
urban drainage and maintenance of national buildings. MOP was formed, over a
period of time, from a number of separate offices. In recent years, it has
been in a state of gradual reorganization, culminating in 1978 with passage of
a law to sanction the new organization. MOP, as shown in Chart 1, now consists
of four headquarter sections (planning, internal audit, legal and public
relations), two headquarter divisions (administration and engineering), nine
provincial directorates, two metropolitan offices (one for streets and drain-
age and one for public buildings) and one office for the Chiriqui National
Railway. The Engineering Division comprises eight directorates: Design and
Inspection (DDI); Special Projects (DPE); Pan-American Highway (CPA); Highway
Maintenance (DMV); Equipment and Workshops (DET); Fixed Plant (DI); the
National Geographic Institute (IGN); and Valorization (DV). Recently, the
design, inspection and construction functions were consolidated at the national
level. DDI will henceforth be responsible for all studies and design, CPA for
all inspection and DPE for force account construction. The necessary legisla-
tive changes to formalize this decision are being prepared.
3.05      MOP's total staff consists of some 6,500 employees, of whom about
100 are professionals and about 1,550 are technicians. MOP's senior engineer-
ing personnel are generally experienced and capable. MOP's directorates have
relative freedom to contract additional engineering and technical staff for
specific projects provided that they are paid from the investment budget.
Regular staff can be transferred readily between directorates or provinces,
which has facilitated strengthening the maintenance organization. However,
the Ministry has problems in retaining high-caliber staff in view of the more
attractive conditions offered in the private sector.
3.06      The increased effectiveness expected from the reorganization has
been slow in coming. Until very recently, each of the major technical direc-
torates occupied separate quarters, scattered throughout Panama City, and DMV
and DET have their headquarters in David, some 400 km to the west. The
Panama-based directorates have now been regrouped in new quarters; however,
the centralization of administrative control was not followed by corresponding
revision of procedures and reassignment of staff. Improved management pro-
cedures and staff allocation are being addressed under the ongoing Highway
Maintenance Project (Loan 1565-PAN), which is providing expertise to help form
an Organization and Management Office and to assist in reclassification of



- 10 -
positions during budget preparation (which determines the approved establish-
ment). The new consolidated organization will provide a framework to streamline
MOP's activities and review its modus operandi, in particular the possibility
of contracting out some of the work presently carried out by force account.
C.   Planning
3.07      MOP's Department of Planning was created in 1971 to carry out overall
planning for highway investments and to prepare feasibility studies, loan
applications, and the Ministry's annual budget application. The Department
was later put in charge of coordinating MOP investment programs within the
broader national plans of MIPPE. The Department of Planning has not yet
established itself in its principal function of determining economic invest-
ment priorities. The National Transport Survey (NTS), published in 1975,
still is the main framework for investment planning. The planning process is
dominated by the'availability and timing of external financial assistance.
The Department has been engaged principally in annual programing and budget
administration. Its effectiveness has also been limited by lack of clear cut
definition of its functions and lack of coordination with other directorates.
3.08      MOP's inventory of investment projects for 1981-1985 (Table 1.5)
foresees investments of US$329 million in the road sector. More than half,
US$240 million, is for projects which have already been initiated, of which
72% are accounted for by two projects which, at the given standards and
costs, may have low economic priority. One is totally, and the other to a
considerable extent, financed from abroad, and the Government does not plan to
forego or redirect this financing. Two projects make up 71% of the US$90 mil-
lion planned for new projects. One is the proposed road rehabilitation
project, which is of high priority, and the other is the Chiriqui-Bocas del
Toro road, whose economic feasibility study will be reviewed by the Bank.
The continuation of the Pan-American Highway through the Darien province,
which alone accounted for some US$60 million, has been eliminated.  This
project was initiated with US Government co-financing, but the US has withheld
its participation since 1978 on environmental grounds. The project had
limited economic justification at this stage and was therefore identified by
the appraisal mission as the major candidate for postponement.
3.09      The Government, recognizing the need to cut down MOP's inventory
of investment projects, approved an investment budget of US$64 million for
1981, i.e., 20% less than MOP's original request.  Should further cutbacks be
necessary, it would not be justified to cut down on maintenance and rehabili-
tation to allow completion of new projects. An important objective of project
preparation has been to ensure that MOP's highway program would achieve
a proper balance between maintenance and rehabilitation on the one hand
and construction on the other. Minimum estimated requirements for main-
tenance and rehabilitation have been reviewed and agreed. The Government
confirmed during negotiations that new road projects would not be undertaken
without a prior assessment of their economic and technical feasibility,
and that it would furnish to the Bank, upon request, the conclusions of its
studies with respect to any new road involving expenditures of X3S$l mitlion
or more. The Government would also exchange views with the Bank annually by
September 1 on implementation, progress and the updating of its five-year road
investment plan. These consultations would allow the Bank to raise the issue
of deferring implementation of projects with low rates of return and low
priority.



- 11 -
D.   Financing
3.10      All road expenditures are financed through the general Government
budget mainly under MOP allocations, although occasionally feeder roads are
financed under allocations for agriculture. Expenditures for the period
1970-1980 and the sources of financing are shown in Table 3.2. The level of
total annual expenditures averaged US$30 million over this period. Highway
maintenance and rehabilitation accounted for about 20%, a level that was
inadequate. Over the same period, more than 50% of total highway expenditure
was financed by external sources, mainly IDB and the US Government through
USAID, the Federal Highway Administration and Eximbank (Table 3.2).
3.11      Estimated contributions from road user charges are shown in
Table 3.3. On the average, road user revenues for the period 1974-1980 have
been sufficient (US$28 million equivalent in 1974 rising to US$51 million
equivalent in 1980) to cover about 80% of all road expenditures. Only in 1976
were expenditures substantially out of line with revenues, in part due to large
investments (about US$20 million) on the Pan-American Highway, two-thirds of
which were financed through a US Government grant. It is estimated that, in
the future, proceeds from road user charges will continue to adequately cover
administration, maintenance, and rehabilitation expenditures, but will fall
short of covering all road expenditures by some 25%. The Government has
agreed to follow this matter carefully and take action if necessary. For the
period 1982-1985, road user charges as projected in Table 3.3 will still cover
74% of all projected road expenditures for the period.
3.12       The prices of locally consumed fuel, particularly gasoline, are high
in comparison with levels in the US and most Latin American countries. As
of February 16, 1980, the retail price for gasoline ranged between US$1.98
per gallon (95 octane) and US$1.86 (87 octane), and the price for diesel was
US$1.15 per gallon. 1/ These prices include 50.5, 43.2 and 2 cents of taxes,
respectively. CIF import prices for these fuels are 98 cents per gallon for
gasoline (87 octane) and 95 cents for diesel. The margin between retail and
import prices is amply sufficient to cover distribution and other costs in the
case of gasoline; it is smaller (18 cents) in the case of diesel, suggesting
the possibility of some amount of cross-subsidy between car users and truck
and bus users. The Government was, in the past, giving a discount on fuels
consumed for public transport, but this discount was eliminated in 1980 as a
step toward the rationalization of fuel pricing. 2/
E.   Engineering
3.13       MOP's DDI will henceforth be responsible for studies and design.
Supervision of roadworks by contractors will be the responsibility of CPA,
and DPE will be responsible for force account construction. DDI, previously,
1/   In early 1981, gasoline prices (87 octane) were further increased to
US$2.04 and those of diesel to US$1.26 per gallon.
2/   Panama, Energy Sector Memorandum, Report No. 3109-PAN, August 21, 1980,
p. 9.



- 12 -
was generally responsible for the technical preparation and supervision of
all highway projects that did not have external financing. Road standards
have, in the past, often been adopted in conjunction with lending agencies,
e.g., current secondary and feeder road standards were developed for USAID
and IDB-financed road projects (Table 3.4). MOP also follows American
Association of State Highway Transportation Officials (AASHTO) geometric
standards for main roads and bridges with some minor adjustments for
Panamanian conditions and slightly modified American Asphalt Institute
procedures for pavement designs.
3.14      MOP sometimes contracts consultants for engineering and supervision
of road projects, usually for projects financed externally. More often MOP
supplements its own staff, when necessary, by contracting individual engineers
and technicians for a specific task with relation to a particular project.
According to MOP's assessment, there are 15 local consulting firms which can
undertake roadwork, four of which can conduct soils and materials studies.
F.   Construction
3.15      Major highways such as the Pan-American Highway and roads in the
former Canal Zone were built, and in some instances maintained, by foreign
contractors. The rest of the network was built by MOP either by force account
or through negotiated contracts.  More recently, however, MOP policy changed
to contracting most new highway construction on the basis of competitive
bidding. Satisfactory bidding practices have been adopted, following examples
set under IDB-financed projects and reflecting the experience gained with
construction of the Pan-American Highway. The capability of the local con-
tracting industry has expanded so that there are currently some 15 domestic
contractors experienced in roadwork. Panama should, in the future, be
able to rely upon domestic capacity for most of its requirements.
3.16      Minor highway improvements, particularly for small local roads and
streets in provincial towns, are still carried out by the provincial directorates
through force account. Until 1980, there were special budgets provided for
these politically important road projects called "the Representative's prog-
rams." The budgets were small and usually insufficient so that, directly or
indirectly, some maintenance resources were diverted to these projects; even
so, construction quality was often inadequate. In 1980, these programs were
no longer officially budgeted. An important objective being pursued under
the ongoing Maintenance Project is to introduce measures for programing,
controlling and accounting for any road improvement works by the provinces,
in order to ensure their separation from recurrent maintenance activities.
G.   Maintenance
3.17      Maintenance of the whole road network is the responsibility of MOP's
Maintenance Directorate (DMV), which, together with the Equipment Directorate
(DET), is headquartered in David. DMV operates through nine provincial
directorates, including one in charge of maintaining streets in Panama City.
Xtaintemance of i s5ai   1xi.      , the ixmeT Canal Zo'Lne is conducted in coopexaraor
with the Canal Commission. Highway maintenance planning and supervision are
handled from the headquarters in David, while the provincial directorates



- 13 -
carry out work with their own forces. Each of the provincial directorates is
headed by an engineer, who has an assistant engineer (recently appointed)
responsible solely for maintenance.
:3.18     Road maintenance organization and procedures in Panama are currently
being improved under the ongoing Maintenance Project. Testing of the upgraded
organization and procedures for preparation, execution and control of the
annual maintenance program was started in the two pilot provinces of Panama
and Los Santos during 1980. Evaluation of recorded resource utilization and
costs, in the light of resulting road conditions, is beginning. The pilot
provinces were supplied with some additional equipment and staff to implement
the pilot programs; however, shortages of spare parts and fuel hampered progress
considerably because equipment remained idle or inoperative for a cumulative
period of several months.
3.19      The remaining provinces are being brought into the program over the
coming years. The 1981 maintenance budget is, for the first time, based on
systematic road maintenance programs for each province, reflecting a complete
road inventory and standard schedules of operations depending on road types,
traffic volumes, and local conditions. However, the approved 1981 maintenance
budget showed a shortfall of funds for spare parts and fuel. The Government
is ready to provide supplemental allocations at mid-year based on MOP's program
(para 5.06). Under the ongoing maintenance program, all provinces should
progress, by the end of 1981, to the status reached at present by the pilot
provinces. By 1984, MOP should be able to provide adequate maintenance to all
roads.
3.20      The provinces have hired, or can hire, adequate numbers of fairly
well qualified road maintenance workers. They have, in addition, qualified
superintendents with practical experience, a supervisory class not found in
most developing countries. Major problems are severe shortages of qualified
mechanics, a substantial proportion of underqualified equipment operators
and road-gang chiefs, and virtually non-existing workshop administration.
Stone aggregate production capacity is also insufficient to sustain a full
maintenance demand in addition to other road work and some commercial demand.
Both of these problems would be remedied under the project.
H.   Workshops and Equipment Maintenance
3.21      The management and maintenance of MOP's equipment and vehicle fleet
are the responsibility of DET. In 1980, the fleet consisted of about 1,800
units, of which about 37% were broken down and 42% were operating in substandard
condition. The average age of this fleet is currently estimated to be close
to ten years, and, in 1980, the fleet utilization was estimated to be about 45%
of availability, due to a large extent to lack of funds to purchase fuel.
3.22      Under the ongoing project, 415 new units of equipment and vehicles
for road maintenance have been ordered. Deliveries started in November 1980
and are expected to be completed by mid-1981. Spare parts for major repairs
and overhaul of 41 newer units of the existing equipment fleet are also being
ordered, with overhaul expected to start by July 1981. In all, it is envisaged
that about 110 such units will be placed back in service during 1981. Purchases
of both equipment and spare parts were seriously delayed during 1980 because



- 14 -
of cumbersome Government procedures, ill suited to relatively large scale
procurement. Specific measures to improve procurement have already been imple-
mented by MOP and further measures are being prepared and would be reviewed by
and discussed with the Bank by December 1981.
3.23      Removal of accumulated scrap equipment from provincial workshops,
to make space for repairs, has advanced well, and scrapping of units, too
old to be economically repaired, continues. The Government confirmed, during
negotiations, that a program of equipment replacement and renewal would be
prepared, annually, by September 1 starting in 1982.  Improvements needed in
a number of provincial workshops would be undertaken in 1981 under the ongoing
maintenance project.
3.24      The creation of DET (then called DINE) in 1978, as a single organ-
ization for equipment and workshop management, did not concurrently provide
the organization with the required qualified managerial and mechanical staff.
Technical assistance in this field has been of limited effectiveness because
of the lack of qualified counterparts, and the two experts at hand have been
involved in procurement of new equipment, as well as assessment of equipment
condition and preparation of spare parts requirements for the overhaul program.
3.25      MOP's management, recognizing the deficiencies in its mechanical
branch, obtained approval, in the 1981 budget, for 162 additional mechanical,
administrative and managerial positions, including seven engineers. However,
it is a problem to find qualified staff at MOP's pay scale, with competition
from other private and public agencies. Up to four years may be required to
fully build up DET's capacity. The proposed project provides for technical
assistance and training to bridge DET's management gap. This is particularly
necessary because contracting out equipment maintenance is not practicable
because of limited facilities in the private sector for equipment of this size
and in these quantities.
I.   Training
3.26      Between 1972 and 1977, the DMV (then DNM) conducted some short-term
courses for equipment operators on an occasional basis (13 courses providing
training for some 300 operators and mechanics). From 1978 until late 1980, no
operator training took place, but about 20 mechanics were provided training,
conducted by local equipment suppliers, on specific makes of equipment, in
anticipation of the start of equipment overhaul. Currently, all suppliers of
new equipment, under the ongoing project, are providing training and familiari-
zation courses, to selected provincial staff, covering the use and maintenance
of the new equipment. The technical assistance and provincial maintenance
supervisors are engaged in evaluating and rating the on-the-job performance of
highway and mechanical staff and outlining additional training needs and/or
a scheme to use existing private maintenance facilities on a regular basis.
3.27      The ongoing project provides for expert assistance in evaluating
MOP's total training requirement and planning the establishment of a permanent
training ana quaXliEcation organization.  1MOP is currently negotiating with
SENAFORP (an established training center supported by ILO) for the required
services. SENAFORP has recently performed similar tasks for other organiza-
tions in Panama.



- 15 -
IV. PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE FOR ROADS
A.   General
4.01      To date, the Bank's involvement in the road subsector consisted
of three projects and the provision of technical assistance as executing
agency under the UNDP-financed National Transport Survey (NTS). The First
Highway Project (Loan 123-PAN, US$5.9 million, July 1955) was for highway
rehabilitation, the Second Highway Project (Loan 264-PAN, US$7.2 million,
August 1960), was for feeder roads and the third project was a Highway
Maintenance Project (Loan 1565-PAN, US$12.0 million, June 30, 1978). In 1972
the Bank assisted Panama in the transport sector by helping to prepare terms
of reference for the UNDP-financed NTS and acting as its executing agency.
Annex l provides details on completed projects.
4.02      Although the Bank did not actually finance any highway projects
between 1960 and June 30, 1978, it was well advanced in the appraisal of a
US$6.4 million highway construction and maintenance project in 1966, at which
time the loan application was withdrawn by the Government. In 1975, after
successful completion of the NTS in 1974, a project to finance modernization
of the Panama-Colon Highway and the purchase of highway maintenance equipment
was prepared to a point at which appraisal could have taken place. This
project was not carried out because of financing constraints in the Bank,
resulting from the higher priority of another project in Panama. The project
which finally re-established a working relationship between MOP and the Bank
in highways was the 1978 Highway Maintenance Project. Its objectives were
kept well focused and simple, and the Bank has collaborated closely with MOP
in its preparation and execution. The proposed rehabilitation project would
complement the maintenance program now under way.
B.   Ongoing Highway Maintenance Project
4.03      The ongoing Highway Maintenance Project provides coordinated measures
to build up MOP's capacity as necessary to carry out adequate annual programs
of routine and periodic maintenance. The project was based on a four-year
maintenance program (1979-1982) defining scope and frequency of main activi-
ties, type of road and classes of traffic. The program also contained an
agreed estimate of funding requirements for recurrent and non-recurrent
items. The non-recurrent items are the object of Bank financing including:
-    new equipment, spare parts to build up inventory and to carry
out overhaul of existing salvageable units;
-    workshop tools and equipment;
-    technical assistance to advise and introduce improvement planning
and control methods; to support the management of the equipment
fleet and, finally, to assess MOP's training needs.



- 16 -
The project also provides for identification and preparation of a rehabilita-
tion and strengthening program which gives the basis of the proposed new
project.
4.04      The start of the project was delayed about 18 months by the Govern-
ment's objection to contracting a consulting firm to provide technical assis-
tance services. Although it was initially intended to obtain such services
through a firm, the new Government, in late 1978, elected instead to seek
individual experts. The Bank agreed to this solution and subsequently
assisted MOP in recruiting individual consultants (international and national).
Six members of the planned ten-man team have been at work since the second
half of 1979, mostly in two pilot provinces and assisting with procurement.
Recently, MOP strengthened its own maintenance management, and the composi-
tion of the team was modified accordingly. Several new experts, satisfactory
to the Bank, have been contracted to fill vacancies resulting from contract
expiration and to fill previously unstaffed positions. MOP's management
recognizes the need for technical assistance, including the use of foreign
experts and firms. Future requirements for technical assistance to achieve
the objectives of the ongoing and of the new project have been carefully
reviewed and agreed (Annex 2). The positions calling for Civil Engineers
would be filled by qualified Panamanian Engineers acceptable to the Bank.
Positions requiring Mechanical Engineers may have to be filled by staff
provided by international consulting firms. Some of these requirements would
be financed under ongoing Loan 1565-PAN and some would be met under the new
project. During negotiations, the program for extending the duration of
ongoing technical assistance services and the corresponding contractual
arrangements for experts were reviewed and found satisfactory.
4.05      Procurement of equipment and spare parts has also been slow, delayed
largely by cumbersome procurement procedures. Bids on 24 items of equipment
were received in January 1980, with four items subsequently rebid in July 1980.
Evaluation and subsequent cabinet approval took until August 1980. Deliveries
started in November 1980 and are expected to be complete by mid-1981. The
first order for spare parts for equipment overhaul was prepared in December 1980,
but, because of change in MOP management, orders have not yet been placed.
4.06      Although the program has progressed more slowly than was scheduled,
progress in instituting improved maintenance management and improved practices
in the pilot provinces has been steady. The second phase of nationwide
implementation began in January 1981 with the appointment of Maintenance
Engineers to five of the remaining seven provinces. Equipment overhaul is
also scheduled to be finished in early 1982. Ongoing technical assistance
would continue, however, through 1982 in most specialties in order to
assist in the process of modifying standards on the basis of actual feedback
from the field and to monitor management of a complete national program.
During negotiations, the plan of action for implementation of the measures
mentioned above was confirmed.



- 17 -
V. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives and General Description
5.01       The project would support a comprehensive maintenance policy
covering the period 1981 to 1985 and would pursue and complement the efforts
initiated under the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 1565-PAN).
Its main objectives are:
(a)  to eliminate the backlog of regraveling, resealing and overlays;
(b)  to upgrade MOP's maintenance organization and increase its
efficiency; and
(c)  to support improvement in transport planning.
5.02      The proposed project comprises three components:
(i)  a Road Rehabilitation Program (1982-1985) consisting of resealing,
overlay and reconstruction of about 400 km of paved roads and
regraveling of about 50 km of secondary roads. The roads to be
included annually under the project have been selected in agreement
with the Bank, and any changes would have to be on the basis of
agreed economic and engineering criteria and procedures. For these
items, the project provides detailed engineering, civil works and
related supervision.
(ii) a Road Maintenance Program (1981-1985) consisting of complementary
measures to build'up MOP's maintenance capacity already started
under the ongoing Maintenance Project, more specifically: (a) pur-
chase of equipment and spare parts to increase production of crushed
aggregates for base course repairs, asphaltic concrete, and surface
treatment; (b) workshop improvements; (c) vehicle weight control
equipment to expand and improve axle load control; and (d) technical
assistance for equipment repair and fleet management, training of
road and equipment maintenance personnel and organizational improve-
ments in MOP.
(iii) Technical assistance for strengthening of transport planning within
MIPPE.
The Road Rehabilitation and Road Maintenance components of this proposed
project are part of MOP's Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program described
below.
B..  MOP's Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program (1981-1985)
5.03       The Program would extend countrywide the maintenance policies
introduced in 1980 in two pilot districts. The physical targets of the
program and the related funding requirements have been updated, reflecting
the experience gained so far. As shown in the table following, MOP would
be able to meet 100 of the requirements for routine maintenance (as defined



- 18 -
under the First Maintenance Project) by 1984. By 1985, MOP would be able to
meet its periodic maintenance requirements as well.
Percentage of Maintenance Requirements to be Met by MOP
(R = routine, P = periodic)
Road
Surface                1981       1982         1983          1984         1985
Type               R    P    R       P      R     P      R      P      R     P
Cement Concrete       90   90  100    95   100   100   100   100   100   100
Asphalt Concrete    80   55   90    90    95   100   100   100   100   100
Surface Treated       80   55   90    90    95   100   100   100   100   100
UnDaved/Improved    70   55   80    90    90   100   100   100   100   100
Unimproved            60   80   70    90    80    90    90   iOO   100   100
5.04      During 1981 and 1982, routine maintenance of the most heavily
trafficked paved roads, which are now in poor condition, would require an
above-normal percentage of maintenance resources and funds. As the main roads
receive intensive repairs, resealing or rehabilitation and strengthening under
the proposed project, their claim on maintenance resources would diminish,
allowing DMV to extend maintenance to all roads by 1984, without substantial
increase in current budgetary requirements. The Rehabilitation Program
includes repairs, overlays and strengthening, over and above MOP's "normal"
periodic maintenance activities, which would be conducted in parallel. DMV's
"normal" periodic maintenance program would include mostly repair and resealing
of paved roads and regraveling and reshaping of unpaved roads. The physical
targets of MOP's Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program in terms of length of
roads treated are indicated below (details are in Table 5.1).
------------------ km ------------------
Roads Restored                   1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
Paved:
DMV Periodic Maintenance       170        278      309       309        309
Rehabilitation Program /1    -            115      182        93         18
Sub-Total Paved            170        393      491       402        327
Unpaved:
DMV Periodic Maintenance    230           378     420       420         420
Rehabilitation Program /1    -             28       14        -          -
Sub-Total Unpaved          230        406      434       420        420
TOTAL                      400        799      925       822        747
/1   Financed under this project.



- 19 -
5.05      Annual recurrent expenditures required for road maintenance would
average about US$13 million (1981 prices) broadly in line, in real terms, with
levels agreed under the ongoing project. Additional capital expenditures of
about US$2.5 milLion annually would be required for equipment renewal and
workshop improvements. This figure would need to be reassessed, as the
program progresses, to reflect actual equipment utilization and MOP's policy
regarding equipment rebuilding as an alternative to renewal. The Rehabilita-
tion Program would require annual expenditure averaging about US$6 to 7 mil-
lion over about four years. Projected expenditures for the Maintenance
and Rehabilitation Programs (1981-1985), including capital expenditures under
the ongoing and the proposed projects, are summarized in Table 5.2. The
Program as shown in Table 5.2 would average about US$22 million annually,
i.e., between 20% and 30% of planned total road expenditures.
5.06      During negotiations, the Government confirmed that MOP would implement
its Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program (1981-1985) and that MOP would
exchange views annually with the Bank on progress made and on plans for
completion. In addition to the usual commitment to fund local project expendi-
tures, the Government would undertake:
(a)  to provide adequate funds through its recurrent and capital budgets
to implement MOP's Maintenance Program 1981-1985 (Tables 5.1 and 5.2).
The Government has confirmed that the initial 1981 allocations
for fuel, oil and lubricants and for materials would be supple-
mented as necessary to allow the full implementation of the MOP
Program. It would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan that these supplementary appropriations have been made avail-
able to MOP; and
(b)  to give priority in planning highway capital expenditures to the
implementation of MOP's Rehabilitation Program over other capital
expenditures.
C.   The Project's Road Rehabilitation Program
5.07       The project provides for placing new asphaltic concrete surfacing
on about 125 km of the most heavily trafficked paved roads (ADTs ranging
between 1,136 and 7,000 vehicles per day). Most of this, would be overlays,
averaging about 2 inches in thickness, of existing asphaltic concrete surfaces.
Ihe overlays would substantially improve the riding qualities of the surface,
but, more important, would provide the added strength required to accommodate
increases in traffic. Average cost would be about US$80,000 per km.
5.08      About 135 km of aged (20 to 30-year old) and badly deteriorated
pavement would be scarified and would have additional base course added
before receiving a new double surface treatment. Some of these roads were
constructed with only 10 to 15 cm of base material, frequently with no
sub-base, and are now obsolete. The cost of this work would range between
US$35,000 and US$55,000 per km.



- 20 -
5.09      The remaining 140 km of paved road rehabilitation would consist of
patching and even reconstruction of short deteriorated sections of pavement
followed by resealing (an overdue periodic maintenance activity) of the entire
length (US$12,000 to US$18,000 per km). Most of these roads also are presently
surface dressed and show no apparent signs of widespread structural distress.
Testing and engineering studies would be undertaken to confirm satisfactory
structural condition and to design remedies for repair of localized deteriora-
tion.
5.10      Finally, the project includes regraveling and drainage improvements
for about 50 km of the more heavily trafficked (ADT>100 vpd) unpaved roads
(at a cost of US$8-10,000 per km) to complement DMV's periodic maintenance
program.
5.11      The Rehabilitation Program would include about 28 sections with
lengths ranging from 3 to 55 km, which have all been screened and evaluated.
The Program would be carried out in three annual phases to be initiated
in 1981, 1982 and 1983. The selection of roads, for the first phase, takes
into consideration economic priorities, reasonable distribution of project
expenditures among the country's regions, detailed engineering requirements
and demands of the trucking industry. The second and third phases include
those of the remaining roads requiring most repair or strengthening. This
arrangement would allow more time to prepare detailed engineering. Table 5.3,
page 1 provides a summary description of the eight roads, totaling 184 km,
selected for implementation in 1981-1982. Detailed engineering for these
roads was started in February 1981, and tendering would be undertaken in
August 1981, with completion scheduled by mid 1983. The list of roads to be
rehabilitated during the second and third phases (Table 5.3, pages 2 and 3)
would be furnished for review and agreement by the Bank, not later than
February 1, 1982 and February 1, 1983 respectively.
5.12      The selection and preparation of specific sections included in
the second and third phases would take into account updated estimates of
funding remaining available for the program after completion of the first
phase and would be made according to the criteria and procedures indicated
below, which are adequate and which were confirmed during negotiations:
(i) Eligibility: Roads meeting the following critera:
(a)  that of being a DMV maintenance responsibility (i.e., included
in DMV's inventory; annual maintenance program and related
budget); and
(b) that of being located in the provinces covered by the maintenance
program (this excludes Panama City and the former Canal Zone).
(ii)  Confirmation of priority and construction standard.  MOP would
update the economic evaluation through the use of the HDM model.
On the basis of priority ranking thus attained and a reasonable
regional distribution, MOP would confirm or revise the list of roads
to be rehabilitated during the year ahead:
(a) the construction standards selected would accommodate
expected traffic, without further strengthening, for
the following periods:



- 21 -
- overlays and reconstructed pavement - at least 10 years;
- intensive repairs and resealing - until next scheduled
periodic maintenance resealing;
(b) selected roads would have traffic levels of at least
170 vpd for paved roads and 100 vpd for gravel roads.
(iii)  Preparation by MOP and/or consultants of engineering designs as
appropriate for individual sections. Design plans would show and
locate field test data (deflections and soils) and would locate
special pavement repair, typical pavement sections, additional
drainage works and material sources to a surveyed reference line.
(vi) Review by the Bank of economic feasibility, detailed engineering,
bidding documents for roads or sets of roads and proposed arrange-
ments for bidding.
D.   Upgrading of Maintenance Capacity under the Project
(i) Equipment Support
5.13       The project would provide workshop tools and minor additions and
improvements to selected workshops to facilitate maintenance of equipment.
Two provinces currently have no workshop installations and need none because
of the limited number of roads. Others are seriously deficient, while three
workshops need minor improvements. The tentative list of tools to be procured
and of the improvements to be made to the workshops would also be reviewed and
confirmed by the technical assistance consultants retained under the project.
(ii) Fixed Plants for Production of Road Maintenance Materials
5.14       The few commercially operated quarries and plants are concentrated
near metropolitan areas while MOP operates similar installations in the pro-
vinces to provide for its own work and, when possible, for the small demand
from the private sector. The Industrial Directorate (DI) of MOP was estab-
lisned, at the time of the 1978 reorganization, to manage these operations.
In 1980, through improved management, DI substantially increased its produc-
tion at various plants and instituted cost accounting. An internal study
and analysis of its operations has concluded that the capacity of equipment
supplying quarry materials to its plants is insufficient.
5.15      The project would provide spare parts for major repair and over-
haul of crushing plants and related equipment at about 13 quarry and gravel
pit sites, three asphalt plants and four yards for culvert pipe manufacture.
DI has identified a tentative list of equipment and parts. The list would be
reviewed by the equipment consultants provided under the project as part of
a general review of quarry operations. The project would also replace about
27 pieces of equipment for extraction and transport of materials. Table 5.4
presents the tentative list of equipment to be procured. This list was
reviewed and confirmed during negotiations.
(iii) Enforcement of Axle Weight Control Regulations
5.16      Another small but significant component of the proposed project
is the replacement of obsolete weighing scales and commissioning of new
weighing stations (Map IBRD 15638) to control overloading more efficiently.



- 22 -
MOP has recognized that enforcement of vehicle weight regulations is a
necessary component of sound maintenance policy. To provide additional
protection, about six new stations would be installed and five extra mobile
scales would be procured for use on branch roads leading away from the Pan-
American Highway, on which it would not be economic to install fixed stations.
(iv) Technical Assistance for Equipment Management and for Training
5.17      The need for technical assistance to DET and DI and for establish-
ing a permanent training program within MOP has been noted. Specifically,
the project would provide technical assistance by a specialized international
firm. MOP's equipment fleet and workshop system has grown to be the largest
in the country, but its availability and utilization are very low. DET has
so far not been able to develop and retain the experienced mechanical engineers
that it needs. Under the project, the consultants would supply three to four
foreign experts for a total of about 68 man-months and about six experienced
local mechanical/industrial engineers for a total of 144 man-months. The
hiring of the experienced local engineers would be a stop-gap measure, the
Government being unable to get those people with the existing salary scales.
MOP would retain more junior engineers as counterparts to be trained in
equipment management. Annex 2 provides summary job descriptions for the
consultants.
5.18      In order to develop DET equipment managers, the project would also
provide scholarships for post-graduate engineering students who would engage
themselves for a tour of duty with MOP upon graduation. The proposed project
also includes short-term training overseas and some local training for key
MOP staff dealing with road maintenance and equipment management. MOP would
present, for review by the Bank, a program and list of candidates for scholar-
ships and short-term training by September 1, 1982. Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations.
5.19      Training of road foremen, drivers, heavy equipment operators and
mechanics and training or familarization courses for support staff and superin-
tendents would require the establishment of a training facility, with an
officer to manage the program, and instructors to be selected and trained from
among MOP's more experienced staff. The program, which is being developed
under the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project, would utilize the existing
training capability of SENAFORP, reinforced by contracted specialists in road
and equipment maintenance training and also arrangements with equipment
suppliers to provide specialized training. At negotiations, the Government
provided the Bank with the terms of reference agreed with SENAFORP for MOP's
training program, which were satisfactory, and agreed to establish, before
June 30, 1982, a Staff    Development Unit within MOP responsible for training
programs as well as scholarships and short-term training and the provision of
adequate staff and funds for its operation.
E.   Technical Assistance for Transport Planning
5.20      The proposed program also includes about two man-years of technical
assistance to MIPPE in transportation planning. Panama has no transporta-
tion ministry and needs assistance to develop staff economists with suffi-
cient background in the transportation sector.



- 23 -
F.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement
5.21      As shown in the table on the following page, the total project cost,
including an estimated 9% in taxes and an appropriate contingency allowance
estimated jointly with MOP, is approximately US$31.7 million. The proposed loan
would finance the foreign exchange costs of the project, estimated at US$19.0
million or 60% of project cost. The Government would finance the local compo-
nent of project costs (including taxes and transfers) and the recurrent and
other capital costs required to carry out the agreed Maintenance Program
(1981-1985). The Bank's contribution to MOP's Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Programs under Loan 1565-PAN and the proposed loan would total 23% of overall
program expenditures.
5.22       Cost estimates for the asphaltic overlays, sealing and resealing
are based on MOP estimates, which were prepared using quantity estimates
from detailed road condition inventories and current contract rates in
Panama for similar work. Estimates of parts and components for the equipment
overhaul program are based on condition inventories of existing equipment.
The costs of replacement equipment and workshop tools are based on lists
prepared by DET and DI together with manufacturers' quotations and recent
purchases. The estimate for workshop improvements is based on preliminary
plans prepared by consultants assisting DET. Technical assistance costs are
estimated on the basis of recent contracts for similar services by local and
foreign firms. This amounts to an average rate of about US$9,000 equivalent
per man-month (including transportation) for foreign experts and US$2,500 per
man-month for local engineers. Overseas training for MOP staff was estimated
to cost US$7,000 per man-month including tuition and travel.
5.23      The 60% foreign exchange component of civil works has been estimated
from unit price analyses with execution by local contractors, reflecting the
dependence on imported equipment, fuel and bitumen. For spare parts, workshop
tools and replacement equipment, the foreign exchange component has been
estimated on the basis of CIF prices at the port of entry. The foreign
exchange component for workshop improvements and other buildings which would
be carried out by local contractors or by force account, is estimated at 30%.
The foreign exchange component for technical assistance reflects the projected
participation of foreign and national staff.
5.24       Disbursements would be made against normal documentation for (a) 100%
of foreign expenditures for equipment, spare parts and tools, which are mostly
imported and (b) 57% of total expenditures for all other items. This averages
out to 100% of the foreign exchange component or 60% of total cost. Disburse-
ments for civil works carried out by MOP's own forces would be made against
Statements of Expenditures (SOE) certified by supervisory consultants and based
on agreed unit prices related to ongoing contracts for similar works. The esti-
mated disbursement schedule reflecting the implementation schedule as well as
recent experience with similar projects is as follows (in US$ millions):
1982        1983        1984        1985
Annual                 3.5         6.0         6.0         3.5
Cumulative             3.5         9.5        15.5        19.0



- 24 -
PANAMA - ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
(In millions of US dollars at January 1981 prices)
Bank
Item                             Local       Foreign        Total   Participation
Amount  % of T            Amount  % of T
I. Road Rehabilitation Program                 8.55    10.90              19.45    11.09    57
-  Detailed Engineering                     0.55      0.29    (35)    0.84        0.48
-  Civil Works                              6.56      9.84    (60)   16.40        9.35
-  Supervision and Support Items            1.44      0.77    (35)    2.21        1.26
II. Upgrading Road Maintenance Capacity         0.82      3.88              4.70      3.60
(a)  Equipment                              0.15      2.35              2.50      2.35    94 1/
- Quarry, Maintenance,
Weighing Equipment and Tools  0.10         1.95    (95)    2.05        1.95
- Spare Parts for Quarry
Equipment Overhaul               0.05      0.40    (89)    0.45        0.40
(b)  Civil Works                            0.25      0.50    (67)    0.75        0.43    57
-  Workshop Improvements              0.15      0.40    (73)    0.55        0.31
-  Weighing Stations                  0.10      0.10    (50)    0.20        0.12
(c)  Technical Assistance                   0.42      1.03              1.45      0.82    57
-  Advisory Services for
DET, DI and Training             0.35      0.85    (71)      1.20      0.68
-  Training and Scholarships          0.07      0.18    (72)    0.25        0.14
III. Technical Assistance for
Transport Planning                        0.03      0.12    (80)    0.15       0.09    57
IV. Base Cost (I+II+III)                        9.40    14.90              24.30    14.78
V. Contingencies                               3.30      4.10              7.40      4.22
(a)  Physical Contingency (12% of I)    1.00          1.31              2.34      1.31
(b) Price Contingency (19% of IV
and Va) 2/       2.30      2.79              5.06      2.91
GRAND TOTAL                                12.70    19.00    (60)   31.70    19.00    60
1/   100% of foreign cost.
2/   The 19% price contingency was arrived at by applying the following annual rates of
increase over 1981 base prices: 1981, 9%; 1982, 8.5%; and 1983 and 1984, 7.5%.
These rates are suitable both for the local and for the foreign components of cost.



- 25 -
G.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring
5.25      MOP would be responsible for project execution through its Engineering
Division and the various directorates of that Division as indicated below:
-    DDI for the design, engineering and preparation of contract documents;
-    CPA for construction supervision;
-    nine provincial Directorates for execution of the maintenance
program, including periodic maintenance, with technical
guidance and assistance being furnished by DMV and DET.
The capacity of the various staff and line units to perform satisfactorily
the roles assigned to them in execution of the project is considered to
be adequate, with the use of local consultants to supplement the resources
available in MOP for engineering, supervision and inspection of civil works.
5.26      As shown in the schedule presented in Table 5.5,  the project would
be implemented within the period 1981 to 1985. Project expenditures related
to the maintenance program (equipment and spares procurement, training program
and technical assistance) would mostly take place over the period 1982 through
1983. Execution of the first batch of rehabilitation and reconstruction
subprojects would begin in late 1981 and would continue through 1983. The last
batch would be initiated in late 1983 and would be completed in 1985. The
project implementation schedule was reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
5.27      Procurement under the project would be in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement" (March 1977). Civil works would be procured
in accordance with international competitive bidding procedures for all
contract amounts over US$1,000,000, while smaller contracts would be bid with
local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. For
bidding purposes, road sections in the same general area would be combined
into lots of a size which would be attractive to prequalified contractors.
Firms would be prequalified to tender for one or more lots according to their
capacity. The lots would be of sufficient size to justify the mobilization of
special equipment for asphalt paving. The procurement arrangements for
rehabilitation works were confirmed during negotiations. Only award decisions
for amounts over US$1,000,000 would have to be submitted to the Bank for its
prior approval. Other award decisions would be reviewed ex post. If the Bank
should determine, after consultation with the Government, that the award was
inconsistent with the Guidelines, it would have a right to refrain from
financing the resulting contract and to cancel from the loan an amount cor-
responding to its scheduled participation therein. It is anticipated that
previous award review would cover about 50% in number and 75% in value of
construction contracts. Civil works contracts for workshops, weighing
stations or minor rehabilitation works would be contracted out or, if contract-
ing is not practicable, would be carried out by force account, with prior
approval of the Bank. The value of such force account work would not exceed
an aggregate of US$800,000.
5.28      The procurement program for equipment and parts, indicating lot
size, estimated cost and proposed exceptions to ICB, would be subject to prior
apprz-va22 by the Bazzk.  A draft program was reviewed and agreed at negotat ions.
Contracts with an estimated cost below US$50,000 and within an overall ceiling
of US$500,000 would be advertised locally in accordance with local competitive



- 26 -
bidding procedures, which are satisfactory. Spare parts for specific makes
of equipment would be procured directly from established dealers under the
same regulations for individual orders of less than US$50,000 within an over-
all ceiling of US$500,000. During negotiations, bidding documents and model
contracts for procurement of equipment were reviewed and found satisfactory.
5.29      Technical assistance for DET would be provided by a consulting firm
specialized in equipment management acceptable to the Bank. The consultants
would be contracted by MOP on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and
would mobilize and be ready to begin work by the end of 1981. Outline terms of
reference for these services were reviewed and agreed at negotiations.
5.30      The progress of the project would be monitored against the agreed
implementation schedule and financing requirements established at appraisal.
In addition, the following indicators would be monitored to assess advances
made toward the project objectives:
(a) availability and utilization of maintenance equipment;
(b) programing and execution of MOP's annual maintenance
programs with scope and composition defined in accordance
with the comprehensive system of maintenance management
being implemented under the ongoing project;
(c) expenditures planned and incurred for the maintenance and
rehabilitation program as compared to the agreed schedule;
(d) number of trainees participating in the Personnel Training
Program;
(e) traffic volumes on project roads upon their rehabilitation; and
(f) road roughness before and after rehabilitation on a sample of
project roads.
The purpose of the project indicators and the scope of related reporting
requirements were discussed and agreed at negotiations.
H.   Project Risks
5.31      The maintenance and rehabilitation components of the project address
high priority requirements which are recognized as such by planning authorities
outside the subsector as well as by MOP personnel throughout the organization.
The economic justification of these components is well established even under
unfavorable hypotheses concerning project cost and future traffic growth. The
technical solutions adopted for rehabilitation works, as well as maintenance,
are based on adequate engineering analyses and reflect the experience gained
in Panama and other countries. These areas do not entail special risk.
5.32      The scope of MOP's programs for maintenance and rehabilitation
was defined after careful evaluation of the capacity of MOP, local consultants
and the local contracting industry. The local funding requirements of MOP's
overall highway program (1981-1985) are in line with recent level of expendi-
tures. The risk of more stringent than anticipated restrictions on public



- 27 -
expenditures has to be recognized. Should such restrictions arise, the
project has adequate flexibility to accommodate them since the timing and
scope of the rehabilitation subprojects included in the second and third
annual phases could be adjusted. Since individual subprojects are small
and have a relatively short implementation period (about one year), the risk
of lengthy interruptions of contracted subprojects due to lack of funding is
also small. Delays in procurement of spare parts for equipment overhaul could
adversely affect MOP's capacity to execute periodic maintenance. Special
attention is being devoted to monitoring progress on this point by the ongoing
technical assistance.
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Formulation of the Program
6.01      The need for this program became evident during the early months
of implementation of the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 1565-PAN).
There is a considerable amount of backlog periodic maintenance, mainly on
paved roads, but also on gravel roads, which can, with difficulty, be
eliminated by the regular periodic maintenance forces. In addition, routine
maintenance becomes very expensive and gives poor results if roads are not in
adequate maintainable condition. From observations during field inspections
made during regular supervision of the ongoing project, it was determined that
road conditions regarding roughness of the surface could be fairly accurately
rated by MOP with the assistance of consultants hired under the ongoing
project, without doing actual roughness measurements. A system was set up
to make an inventory, kilometer by kilometer, of the road network with
sections up to the nearest 50 or 100 meters categorized by surface type and
condition.
6.02      The road inventory led to the preliminary identification of 78 road
sections for a total length of about 1,000 km as candidates for rehabilitation.
On the basis of traffic data, investment and maintenance costs, and estimates
of vehicle operating costs (VOC) developed with HDM's VOC submodel, approximate
and very conservative internal rates of return were calculated for a represen-
tative sample of 42 of the 78 roads, and a rate of return of at least 14% was
obtained for 34 of the 42 roads tested; 40% of the roads had rates of return
of at least 40%. Three basic alternative rehabilitation procedures were
tested for the paved roads: intensive patching and single surface dressing;
adding base course and double surface dressing and bituminous concrete over-
laying (about 5 cm).
6.03      Based on the preliminary calculations, 400 km of roads were elimi-
nated as not being of high priority. The remaining 510 km of paved roads and
80 km of gravel roads were then grouped into 18 subgroups according to initial
road condition and level of traffic. The calculated rate of return for each
one of these subgroups exceeded 25%. Finally, between appraisal and negotia-
tions, mainly for budgetary reasons, the road length remaining in the project
was reduced to 407 km and 42 km of paved and gravel roads respectively.
6.04      Out of the whole program, eight roads with traffic levels of, and
ranging between, 102 vpd for the only gravel road and 229 vpd to 1,735 vpd for
the paved roads were then selected for rehabilitation during the first



- 28 -
year. These roads were selected based on rates of return, convenient imple-
mentation packages, and a reasonable spread of the required works over the
different provinces, and they need relatively less engineering preparation.
Programs for the following years include roads requiring the most repair or
strengthening. These would be reviewed annually and their rates of return
tested in the HDM model, for which preparations are now under way in MOP.
The remaining roads have been listed as reserve roads in Table 5.3, page 2
because MOP is considering reconstructing the Divisa to Las Tablas road as a
separate project. In this case, 64 km of relatively costly work, now scheduled
for rehabilitation in the third phase, would drop out and be replaced by other
priority road sections.
B. Traffic
6.05      Adequate traffic volume and composition data were available in
MOP for the highways included in the Road Rehabilitation Program being inves-
tigated. Traffic in vehicles per day on the selected roads ranged from 100
to 6,995 and averaged over 1,000 vehicles per day. A summary presentation of
the roads being selected, their condition and traffic follows:
ADT in Number of Vehicles
2000
and
in km   100-199   200-399   400-599   600-799   800-999    1000-1999   above
Paved       -       122.7      30.7       36.8        63.0        89.7        64.1
Gravel    41.7        -          -          -           -           -           -
448.7     41.7      122.7      30.7       36.8        63.0       89.7        64.1
Truck and bus traffic is about 33 and 13% respectively of the total traffic.
6.06      Future traffic was forecast using regression analyses on the basis
of expected population and production growth in 22 regions for which data were
available and in which some of the roads were located. The forecast traffic
growth levels varied between zero and 11.6% and averaged out to about 4.2%.
No generated traffic was taken into account.
C. Benefits
6.07      The only benefits used for appraisal of this project are vehicle
operating cost savings by highway users and a reduction in annual maintenance
costs. Vehicle operating cost savings were determined by comparing the cost
of operating on each road link without, and with, the alternative rehabilita-
tion or improvement measures considered. Estimated per-km operating costs
were developed with the Bank's HDM model for paved and gravel roads for
up to six representative vehicles (passenger car, minibus, bus, light, medium
and heavy truck) for three geographic regions of the country (western, central
and metropolitan) and for three representative topographical conditions (flat:
average rise and fall one meter per km and curvature 15 degrees per km;
ondulating: average rise and fall 25 m per km and curvature 60 degrees
per km; and mountainous:  average rise and fall 50 m per km and curvature
150 degrees per km). Representative roughness for paved roads and roughness,
with depth and looseness indicators for gravel roads, are as follows:



- 29 -
Condition      Paved Roads                   Unpaved Roads
Roughness        Roughness      Rut Depth      Looseness
(in mm/km)       (in mm/km)      (in mm)
1           2,000             4,000            -              2
2           3,000             6,500           15              2
3           4,000             9,000           30              2
4            5,000           11,500           45              2
5           6,000            14,000           60              2
A summary of representative basic vehicle operating costs is presented in
Table 2.4.
6.08      Passenger time savings and accident savings were not taken into
account in the economic analysis. In many cases of rehabilitation or improve-
ment of paved and gravel roads, time savings may be a substantial portion of
the total road user savings because of the relatively high running speed which
the road improvement would permit. Nevertheless, since the time saved per
trip may be small, and since it is difficult to demonstrate how much of the
time saved would be put to productive use, these savings have not been taken
into account. Annual maintenance costs with and without the project have been
compared, and the cost difference of about 7% between the two maintenance
costs on the average was taken as a benefit.
D.   Economic Return and Sensitivity
6.09      The proposed road rehabilitation and improvement program is amply
justified. It has an internal or an economic rate of return greater than
50% and rates of return on each one of the 28 roads range between 12 and over
150%. The economic return (ER) for the first year's program (1981-1982) is
over 30% (Table 5.3). Tentative programs for subsequent years have rates of
return above 50% but, because of their preliminary nature at this stage, they
will be re-run with the use of the HDM model each year when programs are
firmed up at budget preparation time. Since the majority of the subprojects
involve rehabilitation of existing roadbeds (only in a few cases is a new base
course added), rates of return below 25% will be reevaluated and reviewed with
the Bank group before implementation. Sensitivity analyses applied to the
principal evaluation parameters show that, even under adverse conditions of
increased costs or decreased user savings or traffic growth, the ER will
remain entirely acceptable.
E.   Benefit Distribution
6.10      The greater part of the benefits resulting from savings in vehicle
operating costs are expected to be transferred ultimately to the producers
and consumers of the goods which are transported, because of the highly
competitive nature of the road transport industry in Panama. The road transport
industry is characterized by a large number of single-owner operators, many
with small vehicles. Since freight tariffs are not regulated, the combination
of greatly improved roads and intense competition should result in significant



- 30 -
reductions (at constant prices) of transport charges, part of which should be
passed on to the producers and consumers. Reduced transport costs would have
a direct impact on the economic activity of the areas of influence of the
various project roads since most of the traffic is related to agricultural and
manufacturing activities and commerce, while facilitating the expansion and
improvement of public health, education and other social services to rural
areas.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a)  vehicle weight regulations to be enforced on a permanent and
consistent basis (para 2.10);
(b)  uninitiated projects not to be undertaken without a prior assessment
of their feasibility, and views to be exchanged with the Bank
annually by September 1 on the implementation, progress and updating
of its road investment plan (para 3.09);
(c)  specific proposals to improve procurement to be reviewed by and
discussed with the Bank by December 1981 (para 3.22);
(d)  a program of equipment replacement and renewal to be prepared
annually by September 1 starting in 1982 (para 3.23);
(e)  contractual arrangements for the extension of experts now
retained by MOP (para 4.04);
(f)  a plan of action for the implementation of the ongoing highway
maintenance project (para 4.06);
(g)  MOP to provide adequate funds through its recurrent and capital
budgets to implement MOP's Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
(1981-1985) and to give priority to implementation of MOP's Road
Rehabilitation Program over other capital expenditures (para 5.06);
(h)  furnishing, for review and agreement by the Bank, the list of roads
to be rehabilitated under the second and third phases of the project
by February 1, 1982 and February 1, 1983 respectively (para 5.11);
(i)  criteria and procedures for selection and preparation of specific
sections included in the second and third phased (para 5.12);
(j)  tentative list of equipment (para 5.15 and Table 5.4);
(k)  MOP to present, for review by the Bank, a program and list
of candidates for scholarships and short-term training by
September 1, 1982 (para 5.18);



- 31 -
(1) the terms of reference agreed with SENAFORP for MOP's training
program (para 5.19);
(m)  establishment, before June 30, 1982, of a Staff Development Unit
within MOP responsible for training programs as well as scholarships
and short-term training and provision of adequate staff and funds
for its operation (para 5.19);
(n) project implementation schedule (para 5.26 and Table 5.5);
(o) procurement arrangements for rehabilitation works (para 5.27);
(p) outline terms of reference for technical assistance (para 5.29);
and
(q) project indicators and scope of related reporting require-
ments (para 5.30).
7.02      The approval of supplemental allocations for spare parts
and fuel at mid-year based on MOP's program would be a condition of
effectiveness for the proposed loan (para 5.06).
7.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis
for a Bank loan of US$19 million. The terms would be 17 years, including
a four-year grace period.
May 21, 1981



- 32 -
TABLE 1.1
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Domestic and International Freight Traffic by Mode in Selected Years, 1967 - 1980
(in millions of ton/kilometers and in thousands of tons)
Domestic (Million Tons-Km)
Year                               Highways  Railwaysl/Aviation  Water  Total
1967                                 466        0.2        0.7         55    522
1970                                 590        0.3        0.9         55    646
1973                                 775        0.4        0.9         54    830
1976                                 805        0.2        0.7         50    856
1977                                 850        0.2        0.7         44    895
1978                                 903        0.2         0.6        38    942
1979                                 959          -         0.5        32    992
1980                               1,015          -         0.5        30  1,046
Annual Average Growth (%)
1967-1980                            6.2         -          -         -      5.5
1970-1980                            5.6         -           -         -     5.0
International (Thousand Tons)2/
Highways       Airports-/    Ports9/   Total
1967                                  10              20            962        992
1970                                  15              27          1,257      1,299
1973                                  39              35          1,297      1,371
1976                                  56              40          1,476      1,572
1977                                  69              40          1,552      1,661
1978                                  83              43          1,628      1,754
1979                                 101              50          1,707      1,858
1980                                 123              54          2,015      2,192
Annual Average Growth (%)
1967-1980                           22.0             3.0          5.8        6.3
1970-1980                           24.0             7.2          5.0        5.5
1/ Excludes Chiriqui Land Company railway traffic
2/ Total Imports and Exports
3/ Includes cargo in-transit
4/ Excluding petroleum products (4.2 million tons/year average)
Source: MOP, APN and DAC
April 1981



- 33 -
TABLE 1.2
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Passenger Traffic by Mode in Selected Years, 1967 - 1980
Domestic (Million Pass-Km)
Year                              Highways   Railways   Aviation   Water   Total
1967                               2,424        4.8          29       1.7    2,457
1970                               2,956        7.6          33       1.7    2,998
1973                               3,572        6.0         37        1.7    3,617
1976                               4,284        4.4         50        2.0    4,340
1977                               4,567        8.0         53        2.0    4,630
1978                               4,868        6.7         57        2.1    4,934
1979                               5,189        7.0         60        2.1    5,251
1980                               5,531        7.2         64        2.1    5,604
Annual Average Growth (%)
1967-1980                          6.6          3.1        6.4        1.6      6.6
1970-1980                          6.5           -         6.9        2.3       6.5
International (Thousand Pass)
Year                             Highways      Airportsl/      Ports          Total
1967                                 30          289            15             434
1970                                 42          479            15             536
1973                                 95          641             9             745
1976                                186          723             5             914
1977                                228          770             5           1,003
1978                                279          848             4           1,131
1979                                342          929             4           1,275
1980                                419        1,022             3           1,444
Annual Average Growth (%)
1967-1980                          21.0         10.2             -             9.7
1970-1980                          25.0          7.9                         10.5
1/ Excluding passengers in-transit
Source: MOP, APN and DAC
April 1981



- 34 -
TABLE 1.3
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
International Port Traffic1/ in Selected Years, 1970-1980
(in thousands of metric tons and in number of ships)
1970    1972    1974           1976            1978             1979            1980
Total   Total   Total   Total  No.of   Total  No.of   Total  No.of   Total  No.of
Cargo   Cargo   Cargo,  Cargo  Ships   Cargo  Ships   Cargo  Ships   Cargo  Ships
General CL_go             1,279  1.383    1,309   2,097 7,638    1,964  7 617   2,053  7.802   2 054  7.672
Colon Arei:                 314     402       451      688 4,022       641  4,698       732  4,867       666
Cristobal                  257    286        307      509   n.a.      494  3,630       482  3,779       434  2,643
Bahia Las Minas             36      88       108      134   170       112    168       210    170       182    218
Muelle #3                   20      25        32       40   687         35    749       40    838        43    817
Folks River                  1       3         4        5   325        -       -        -        4       -       1
Bahia de Colon             n.a.   n.a.       n.a.    n.a.  n.a.       n.a.   151       n.a.    76    n.a.    155
Panama Area:               114      125       191      381  2,945      296  2,463       363  2,535       473  3,163
Balboa                    103      112      171       342   n.a.      293  2,374       352  2,167      420  2,034
Muelle FLscal              11       13       20        39  1,225         3     89       11    368        11    257
Vacain,nt2                 -        -        -         -     -          -     -         -      -       n.a.   100
Almirante                  364      410      265       395    329      357    149       360    147      404    163
Armuelles                  412      354      276       369    202       462    179      361    142      278    118
Aguadulce                   64       73      110       200      97     160      88      196      93     155      84
Other2/                     11       19       16        64     43       48      40       41     18       5E      27
Oil Cargo                4,490   4,594   3,190    2,82o    194  68,374  1,046  32,135    543  44,u51    807
Charco AzuLI                -        -        -         -      -   39,945    509  19,466    258 41,9335/  669
Bahia de Oarita3/           -        -        -         -      -   26,1584/  339  10,469    154    n.a.    n.a.
Bahia Las Minas          4,490   4,594   3,190    2,820       194   2,271    198   2,200    131   2,11E/  138
Total                   5,737   5,282   4,499    4,917  7,832  7                   34,188  8.345  46.105  8,479
1/ Import3 and Exports.
2/ Pedregil, Bocas del Toro, La Palma, Samba Bonita in 1979.  Pedregal only in previous
years.
3/ Began operations in 1977, Charco Azul is close to Puerto Armuelles and Bahia de Parita close
to Agladulce.
4/ August 'o August figure 1977-1978.
5/ Asumingi  1 mgtric ton = 8 barrels of fucl
Source: Panama-Canada Consorttumv, colo Cotat ,'o-yt S            t, atcn V919 and SP'.
April 1981



- 35 -
TABLE 1. 4
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Public Investment Expenditures in the Transport Sector. 1970-1980
(in millions of Current US Dollars)
1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
Transport Sector
Roadsl/                 14.2  10.4  17.6  11.8  18.3  28.5  35.9  31.6  44.0  39.1 53.6
Railways                  -      -     -      -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -
Airports                  0.6   1.4   2.5   2.1   9.0  16.5  25.0  17.4   6.3   4.8   0.5
Ports                    0.1    -    0.2    -       -    2.3   3.4  13.8  21.6  25.6   5.1
Sub-Total                14.9  11.8  20.3  13.9  27.3  47.3  64.3 62.8  71.9  69.5  59.2
Telecommunications
and Power                6.5   8.3   8.2  21.1  41.3  78.8  92.1  63.9 100.5  85.9 114.2
Other Sectors2/            8.0  13.4  26.9  50.7  68.0 104.4 158.3 135.5  97.8 120.3 131.2
Social Services3/        17.8  26.6  28.9  82.8  96.6 106.5  78.3 114.9 113.9  95.6 120.5
Public Adminis-4/
tration and Others       9.0   6.8   7.7   6.6   8.4   6.2  12.0  31.9  15.2  21.2  26.1
Grand Total               56.2  66.9  92.0 175.1 241.6 343t2 405.0 409.0 399.3 392.5 451.2
Transport as % of Total  27%   18%   22%   8%   11%   14%   16%   15%   18%   18%   13%
Roads as % of Total        25%   16%   19%   7%    8%    8%    9%    8%   11%   10%   12%
1/ Excludes urban streets under the Valorization Program through 1979.  In 1980, this
US$1.1 million item was transferred from the Ministry of Housing to the Ministry of
Public Works and, therefore, is since then included under roads.
2/ Agriculture, Commerce, Industry, Mining and Tourism.
3/ Health, Education and Housing.
4/ Includes investments in municipal areas and urban streets through 1979.
Source: MOP, APN, DAC and Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
April 1981



- 36 -
TABLE 1.5
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Transport Investment Budget, 1981 and List of Possible Transport Projects, 1981-1985L/
(in current millions of 1980 (Plan) and 1981 (Budget) US Dollars)!_
Budget                         Plan
1981     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      Total
I. Ministry of Public Works (MOP)            63.8      63.9      94.3      83.1      65.8      21.5     328.6
A. Initiated Projects                     61.0      63.9      82.3      56.1     35.3        2.1     239.7
1. Road Access and Bridge over
Panama Canal                      26.0      26.0      25.0      25.0      24.0        -       100.0
2. Development Roads (IDB-IV)          1.0       1.0      35.0      26.0       9.5        -        71.5
3. Rural Access Roads (AID)            4.0       4.0       5.0       1.9        -         -        11.7
4. Roads Maintenance (IBRD3/           7.2       7.2       3.2       0.3        -         -        10.7
5. Traffic Circulation Improve-
ments (Panama City)                2.0       3.0       6.0        -         -         -         9.0
6. Development Roads (IDB-III)         6.0       6.0       1.7        -         -         -         7.7
7. Drainage Works                      0.5       0.5       1.4       1.4       1.8       2.1        7.2
8. Rehabilitation Colon-Cativa         6.3       6.3       0.1        -         -         -         6.4
9. Panamerican Highway (Darien)
Rio Escobal-Mamoni-Quebrada
Aguacate-El Llano                  1.4       1.4       1.5       1.5        -         -         4.4
10. Widening San Miguelito-
Alcaldediaz                        1.5       1.5       2.6        -         -         -         4.1
11. Arraijan-Chorrera Highway
(IDB)                              2.9       2.9        -         -         -         -         2.9
12. Valorization (widening
Via Porras)                        1.8       1.8        -         -         -         -         1.8
Other                               0.4       2.3        -         -         -         -         2.3
B. New Projects                            2.8        -       12.0      27.0      30.5     19.4        88.9
1. Road Rehabilitation (IBRD)           -         -        5.8      10.0      10.0      55.9       31.7
2. Chiriqui-Bocas del Toro
(120 km)                            -         -       0.5       10.0     10.5      10.0       31.0
3. Special Projects4/                   -         -        4.2       3.0        -         -         7.2
4. Cativa-Sabanitas                     -         -         -         -        3.5       3.5        7.0
5. Guabito-Changuinola (24 km)          -         -         -        2.0       4.0        -         6.0
6. Reconst. Coronado-Rio Hato           -         -        1.5       2.0       2.5        -         6.0
7. Other                               2.8        -         -         -         -         -          -
II.  Autoridad Portuaria Nacional (APN)    16.6          12.9      12.7      18.5      23.9      10.7       78.7
III.  Direccion de Aeronautica Civil (DAC)   _             1.8       6.4       4.3       5.6       1.9.      20.0
Grand Total                              80.4      78.6    113.4    105.9        95.3      34.1      427.3
1/ Draft prepared by Ministry of Planning and MOP. Figures include amounts for
Administration and Supervision.
2/ Substantially (about 60%) based on current prices, but on some items estimates
of price increases were not taken into account by the agencies and constant
1980 prices were used.
3/ Includes technical assistance-equipment and spare parts purchases.
4/ These projects include the Torrijos-Carter Road in Panama, the coastal road to
Vacamonte and several urban roads.
5/ Balboas 41,600 only
Source: Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
May 1981



- 37 -
TABLE 2.1
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Traffic on Sample Links
(1979)
Road                                VPD           A        B        C        D
Pan American Highway
Near Paso de Canoa                1,797          49       23       10       18
Near David                        4,824           71      10        5       14
Near Chiriqui                     1,345          50       13        5       32
Near San Lorenzo                  1,162          56       12        2       30
Near San Felix                      456          72       12        3       13
Near Tole                           418          68        8       18        6
Near Santiago (West)              3,955          54       14       15       17
Near Santiago (East)              2,093          46       19       12       23
Near Nata                         3,614          63       13        4       20
Near Penonome (East)              3,750          57       18       18       17
Near La Chorrera (West)           5,126          57       17        3       21
Near La Chorrera (East)           9,939          68       16        3       13
Near Chepo (West)                   313          44       23        5       28
Near Chepo (East)                   726          68        9        6       17
Panama-Colon Road
-Near Panama (North)              21,919          73       11        2       14
Near Colon (South)                5,942          69        9        2       20
R. Sereno-La Concepcion
(North of P.A. Highway
near Costa Rica)
Near Volcan                         896          63        4       14       19
Near Cuesta de Piedra             1,551          77        3        9       11
La Esperanza-Pto. Armuelles         914          60       13       10       17
North of David, near Dolega    2,777             68       11        9       12
South of David, near Pto
Pedregal                         1,334          60       25        2       13
Guarumal-El Tigre de San
Lorenzo                            157          68       16        2       14
South of Santiago                 1,123          63       20        4       13
Azuero Peninsula
Near Ocu                            563          46       20        8       26
Near Pese                           380          76        7        5       12
Near Sabana Grande                1,021          62       10       13       15
Near Tonosi                         226          55       15       14       16
Near Valle Rico                     712          69       16        3       12
Near Las Tablas                   2,804          76        5        8       11
Near Pocri                          361          73        3       15        9
Near Chitre                       5,240          70        9        9       12
Calobre-Jaquito                       339           38      18        9       35
North of Penonome near Tambo          101          61       30        -        9
North of El Espino on Pan
American Highway near
Sta. Rita                           473          b3       15        9       13
Off Panama-Colon Highway
Near Sardinilla                     173          46       18       22       13
Pto La Canitana near Cheno            394           32      24       is        6
1/ VPD-Vehicles per day
A=% of private autoimobiles
B=% of buses
C=% of light trucks
D=% of heavy trucks
Source: MOP, Planning Department
February 1981



- 38 -
TABLE 2.2
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Consumption of Petroleum Products!/
(i.n millions of US Gallons)
Grand                     Road Vehicles
Year          Total           Gasoline       Diesel        Total    Electricity   Other
1968           n.a.             46.5          24.0          70.5       n.a.           n.a.
1969           n.a.             55.1          34.0          89.1       n.a.           n.a.
1970           n.a.             65.0          33.1          98.1       n.a.           n.a.
1971           n.a.             72.5          44.2         116.7       n.a.           n.a.
1972          259.1             75.7          51.1         126.8        91.9         40.4
1973          287.0             78.9          53.1         132.0       105.5         49.9
1974          303.5             76.0          64.4         140.4       106.2         56.9
1975          333.4             81.1          73.4         154.5       109.4         69.5
1976          331.8             85.0          76.7         161.7       117.9          52.2
1977          324.7             n.a.          n.a.          n.a.       110.5          n.a.
1978          307.6             89.3          79.5         168.8        83.7         55.1
19792/        275.8             n.a.          n.a.           n.a.       n.a.          n.a.
1980           n.a.             n.a.          n.a.          n.a.        n.a.         n.a.
Annual Rates of Growth in percent3/
1968-1978       n.a.             7.0          12.5           9.0        n.a.         n.a.
1972-1978       3.0              3.0           7.5           5.0         -            5.5
1/ Includes gasoline, diesel, fuel oil, refinery gas, LPG, kerosene and
non-energitics.
2/ Preliminary figure
3/ Rounded to the nearest whole or half number
Source: Ministerio de Planificacion y Politica Economica and IBRD, Report
No. 3109-PAN
February 1981



- 39 -
TABLE 2.3
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Vehicle Imports and Vehicle Fleet 1960-1980
Vehicle                Private Vehicles                   Official  Total
Passenger
Years       Imports          Cars        Trucks      Buses    Otherl/ Vehicles  Fleet
1960         4,975          17,572        4,729      1,607      476     n.a.    24,384
1961         4,419          20,371        5,590      1,651      278     n.a.    27,890
1962         4,601          22,403        6,425      1,807      243     n.a.    30,878
1963         5,063          24,992        6,755      1,862      172     n.a.    33,781
1964         4,971          27,259        7,463     2,038       208     n.a.    36,968
1965         6,249          30,065        8,290      2,162      115     n.a.    40,632
1966         7,290          33,686        8,933      2,306      525     n.a.    45,450
1967         7,263          34,969        9,275     2,361       328     n.a.    46,933
1968         7,561          40,449       10,218      2,513      253     n.a.    53,433
1969         8,964          42,055       10,478      2,495       92     n.a.    55,120
1970        10 !C46        45,526       11,716     2,818       293     n.a.    60,353
1971        12,252          52,545       14,081      3,096      207     n.a.    69,929
1972        10,660          53,629       14,498      3,253      104     n.a.    71,484
1973        11,930          58,067       15,446      3,225      149    5,ooo2/  81,917
1974        11,308          62,569       14,158     4,196        83    5,365    86,371
1975         7,097          66,193       15,994      3,806      150    6,965    93,108
1976         6,921          67,859       17,305      3,452      164    7,010    95,790
1977         6,974          71,003       17,689      4,150      166    7,309   100,867
1978         8,224          75,429       20,883      3,769      159    7,233  107,473
1979          n.a.          90,176       25,703      4,571      134    7,100   127,684
1980          n.a.           n.a.         n.a.       n.a.      n.a.    n.a.      n.a.
Average Growth Rate in %
19601979_/  2.8               5.0          9.3        5.7        _       n.a.     9.1
1970--19793/   -              7.9          9.1        5.5        -       n.a.     8.7
1974-1979-/   -               4.5         12.7        1.8      10.0      5.8      4.0
1/ Special vehicles
2/ Estimate
3/ 1978 whenever 1979 data are not available
Source:  Direccion de Estadisticas y Censo de la Contraloria General and
Guardia Nacional, Direccion Nacional de Transito y Transporte Terrestre,
Estadisqtica Vehicular.
April 1981



- 40 -                          TABLE 2.4
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Cost of Operating Road Vehicles on
Paved and Gravel Surfaces, 1/ September 1980
(in US$ cents/veh-km)
Surface Condition -/
Excellent -        Good-/    Average -/         Bad /    Very Bad -/
Passenger Cars
Paved             13.12            13.62         14.63          15.60        16.53
Unpaved           14.51            16.87         19.63          21.87        24.07
Mini Bus
Paved             38.49            38.75         39.08          39.37        39.64
Unpaved            35.29           36.56         37.87          39.83        40.56
Bus
Paved             43.68            50.03         60.59          60.82        66.44
Unpaved           52.79            70.36         85.30         100.65       116.70
Light Truck
Paved              18.74           22.12         25.40          85.70        31.65
Unpaved            26.27           33.89         42.39          51.06        59.99
Medium Truck
Paved             36.80            39.12         41.30          43.46       40.99
Unpaved           42.11            48.66         56.19          63.25       70.14
Heavy Truck-
Paved             81.63            86.73        101.62         111.53      121.39
Unpaved          102.72           129.87        156.87         183.42      211.09
1/ Average of Western, Central and Metropolitan regions.
2/ Average terrain (average of rise and fall of 10 m, 25 m and 50 meters per km and
curvature of 15, 60 and 150 degrees per km).
3/  Refers to 2000 mm roughness for paved road and  4000 mm roughness, 0 mm rut
depth and 2 mm looseness for gravel roads.
4/  Refers to 3000 mm roughness for paved roads and  6500 mm roughness, 15 mm rut
depth and 2 mm looseness for gravel roads.
5/  Refers to 4000 mm roughness for paved roads and  9000 mm roughness, 30 mm rut
depth and 2 mm looseness for gravel roads.
6/  Refers to 5000 mm roughness for paved roads and 11800 mm roughness, 45 mm rut
depth and 2 mm looseness for gravel roads.
7)  ReieTs to b600  mm roughness LoT paved toaas ana 14000 mm roughness, 60 mm rut
depth and 2 mm looseness for gravel roads.
Source: Mission estimates based on data supplied by MOP and HDM relationship.
April 1981



- 41 -
TABLE 3.1
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Past and Projected Development of the Highway Network, 1969-1985
(in kilometers)
1981        2/
Surface Type             1969     1971      1973     1975      1977     1980       1985-
Cement Concrete           635      636       637      6373/    526        535       785
Asphalt  Concrete          -        -         -        -        168      249        315
Surface Treatment         900    1,273    1,599    1,672    1,814    1,930        2,380
Sub-total Paved       1,535    1,909    2,236    2,309    2,508    2,714        3,480
Gravel or Improved      1.186    1.043    1,844    2,086    2,615    3,168        3,930
Earth
Unimproved or Earth    4,045    3,90       3,036    2,920    2,732    2,518       1,270
Grand Total           6X717    6,854    7,116    7,315    7,855    8,400        8,680
1/ Based on maintenance inventory made during 1980.
2/ Assumes completion of MOP's list of possible transpqrt projects for l981-1985 by 1985,
it will, however. probablv take more time to complete (1Q90).
3/'MOP Planning Section statistics included as cement concrete, asphalt concrete
overlays on cementconcrete roads. DMV's maintenance inventory lists these
overlays as asphalt concrete.
Sources: MOP Planning Section (1965-1975)
DMV Statistics 1977 and 1980 and mission estimates
April 1981



- 42 -
TABLE 3.2
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financing of Road Investments 1970 - 1980
(in millions of current ITS Dollarn)
Foreign        Other
Private       Fxternal
Year         Government        UNDP       IBRD       ID&4/   USAi2   USAID        EXIMBANK       Banksl'        Sources  Total
1970           17.4             -           -        2.1      -         2.0           -           6.0             -       27.5
1971           17.5             -           -       0.3       -         1.8           -           6.0             -       25.6
1972           16.3             -           -      10.1      1.1        0.1         0.4            -             0.43/   28.4
1973           15.8            0.4          -        2.9     2.3         -           1.3           -              -       22.7
1974           21.2            0.1          -        3.9     5.2         -           2.6          0.3             -       33.3
1975           27.9             -           -       4.0      8.9         -           7.5            -             -       48.3
1976           24.5             -           -        8.0    13.1         -           3.5           -              -       49.1
1977           29.9             -           -        3.8     5.4         -          0.3             -             -       39.4
1978           12.2             -           -             -        -           -                   -              -       12.2
1979            16.1            -           -       1.4       -         i.O5/        1.4           -              -       19.9
1980           18.4             -          2.2      0.1       -         3.55/       0.1            -              -       24.3
1981 (budget)  17.1                       12.3      5.3       -         2.8          -             -             26.0.6/  63.9
1/ Several Banks (1970 and 1971) and Consolidated and Cleveland (1974)
2/ Federal Highway Administration
3/ Allis Chalmer
4/ Projects plus Pre-investment Fund.
5/ Refers to fiscal years.
6/ Refers to financing by Venezuela of a new bridge over the Panama Canal and the
approaches on the Arraijan-Panama City road.
Source: Deoartamento de Planificacion, MOP and Contraloria General de la Republica
March 1981



- 43 -
PANAMA
TABLE 3.3
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Expenditures and Receipts, 1974-1985 Selected Years
(in millions of current US dollars)l/
Actual                               Projection
1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982   1983   1984   1985
A. Road Expenditures
incl. bridges
(a) Investments               18.3  28.5  35.9  31.6  44.0  39.1  53.6  62.8  92.3   83.6   E4.0   19.4
1.  New Roads2/               11.6  10.1  24.2  15.7  30.2  22.0  32.7  33.6  30.7   39.5   ,4.5   10.0
a) National               2.9   4.3  20.7   9.6  16.4  17.6  19.1  30.3  26.5   26.5   24.0              -
b) Secondary               6.9   2.9    -    3.8    -        -      -    0.2    -    10.0   10.5   10.0
c) Feeder                  -    2.9   1.9    -   13.3   4.6   8.4    -            -      -        -      -
d) Urban3/                1.8    -    1.6   2.3   0.5   0.2   5.2    3.1   4.2    3.0            -       -
2.  Upgrading                  2.4   9.0   8.6  11.4  13.3   7.0   3.8  11.6  51.2   29.9   13.5              -
a) National                -    2.0   4.2   0.6  10.4    -    3.8   5.3  10.4            -       -       -
b) Secondary               1.7   4.0    -    6.8   2.4    -         -    0.9  10.0   22.0   13.5         -
c) Feeder                 0.7   3.0   4.4.  4.0   0.5   7.0    -    5.4  30.8    7.9             -       -
3.  Rehabilitation4/           1.1   2.0   0.8   1.1   0.5   4.6   5.1  10.0  10.4   14.2   1t.u    9.4
a) National               1.1   2.0   0.2   1.1   n.a.  3.3   2.8   9.5   4.6    2.3   1(.O    3.5
b) Secondary                -     -    0.2    -       -    1.0   2.3    .4   5.8   11.9    t.0    5.9
c) Feeder                   -     -    0.4    -    n.a.  0.2    -          -      -      -
4.  Feasibility Studies    0.4   0.4    0.6   0.6   r.a.  0.6            -      .4    -       -       _       -
5.  Equipment purchases.S/  0.3   4.8        -    0.5   n.a.  7.3   9.5   7.23 9
6.  Interest payments         2.5   2.2    1.7   2.3   n.a.  2.2   2.5    3.0  n.a.  n.a.            3.8   n-a-
(b) Maintenance (incl.
some rehabilitation!6/  6.2   9.3   13.2  10.0  11.6  13.3   7.0  11.6  12.7   13.4   1_37   14-n
Total                   24.5  37.8   49.1  41.6  55.6  57.0  6o.6  74.4 105.0   97.0   7707   334
B. Road Receipts
1.  User Taxes               28.2  29.2   34.4  37.4  43.0  49.0  51.5  51.3   51.7  54.1   55.6    57.1
a) Import duties on
vehicles, tires
and parts             7.3   6.5    6.5   7.3   9.7  12.9  13.5  11.8   12.2  12.7   13.2    13.7
b) Sales tax of petro
products for motor
vehicles             17.9  19.7   24.8  27.0  29.0  32.3  34.0  35.0   35.8  36.6   37.4    38.2
c) Vehicle registra-
tion and license
charges 7/            3.0   3.0    3.1   3.1   3.3   3.8   4.0  4.5          4.7   4.8    5.0        5.2
2.  Valorization Charges8/ 1.2   1.3    1.5   1.2   1.0   1.3   1.6  1.7             1.8   1.9    2.0        2.1
3. Tolls on Arraijan-
Chorrera Road             -      -       -        -          -    -       8       .9   1.2    1.5       19
Total                   2Q.4  30.5   35.9 3R.6   44.0  50.3  53.1  53.0  55.4  57.2   59.1    61.1
B as % of A            120%   81%       71%  93%   79%   88%   88%   78%    53%   59%    76%    171%
1/ Based on currently proposed investment plan at 1980 prices.
2/ Includes upgrading in years no figure for upgrading is available.
3/ In 1980, under the valorization program, the responsibility for urban roads was
transferred from the Ministry of Housing to the Ministry of Public Works.
4/ Includes Maintenance in years no figure for maintenance is available.
5/ Includes Technical Assistance operations and workshop improvements.
6/ If not available amount is included in items 1, 2 and 3.
7/ Includes Inspection tag (revisado), Pegistration tag (placa) and
drivers license fees (licencias).
8/ Charges paid to the Government by owners of land who benefit from the increased
land values resulting from road access or improvement.
Source: MOP Planning Department
'fay l')81



- 44 -
TABLE 3.4
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
MOP Highway Design Standards
Primary Roadsi/  Secondary Roads   Local Roads
Design Speed (km/h)                   80                50               40
Minimum Radius (m)                   130                30               30
Stopping Distance (m)                 85                40               40
Maximum Gradient %                     5                 8               12
Width of Surfacing (m)               6.1               6.0              5.0
Width of ONe Shoulder (m)            1.5               0.6               _
Bridge Loading                 AASHTO  HS15-44  AASHTO  HS15-44   AASHTO HS15-44
1/ Basically for the Panamerican and Panama-Colon highways.
Source: MOP
February 1981



TABLE 5.1
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
MOP Five-Year Physical Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program, 1981-1985
(in kilometers)
1981     1982    1983   1984    1985
Network Road Length by Surface Type 1/
Cement Concrete Pavement                    561      565     565      589      589
Asphalt Pavement                          2,247   2,312   2,370   2,464   2,498
Unpaved/Improved                          3,303   3,471   3,561   3,572   3,629
Unpaved/Unimproved                        2,322   2,089   1,958   1,898   1,817
Road Length Constructed                        223      237     148      129       91
Cement Concrete Pavement                     26        4       -       24        -
- Cumulative                              (26)    (30)    (30)    (54)    (54)
Asphalt Pavement                             62       65      58       94       34
- Cumulative                              (62)   (127)   (185)   (279)   (313)
Unpaved/Improved                            135      168      90       11       57
- Cumulative                             (135)   (303)   (393)   (404)   (461)
Road Length Restored by Periodic
Maintenance or Rehabilitation                  400      799     925      822      747
Asphalt                                     170      393     491      402     327
by DMV Periodic Maintenance Program    170        278      309     309      309
by Rehabilitation Program2/                -      115      182       93      18
- Cumulative                           (170)   (563) (1,054) (1,456) (1,783)
Unpaved/Improved                            230     406      434      420     420
by DMV Periodic Maintenance Program    230        378      420      420     420
by Rehabilitation Program2/                -       28       14       -       -
- Cumulative                            (230)   (636) (1,070) (1,490) (1,910)
Cumulative Total Road Length with
Pavement Constructed or Restored               623   1,659   2,732   32683   4,521
Cement Concrete   - length                   26      30       30       54      54
- as percent of total    5%        5%       5%       9%      9%
Asphalt            - length                 232      690   1,239   1,735   2,096
- as percent of total   10%       30%      52%     70%      84%
Unpaved/Improved  - length                  365      939   1,463   1,894   2,371
as percent of total   11%       27%      41%     53%      65%
1/   Estimate assuming 8-year period for execution of all projects in MOP's list
of Table 1.5.
2/   Financed under this project.
Source: MOP and mission estimates
May 1981



- 46 -
TABLE 5.2
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Projected Expenditures for Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program, 1981-1985
(in millions of US Dollars at January 1981 prices)
148       1982       1483        1984      1985
Recurrent budget 1/                         11.63    12.67       13.42       13.73    13.97
Personnel and administration 2/            7.40      7.49       7.84        7.99      8.09
Central administration                  2.57      2.57       2.57        2.57      2.57
Provincial administration               0.60      0.60       0.60        0.60      0.60
Laborers                                4.23      4.32       4.67        4.82      4.92
Materials and supplies                     4.23      5.18       5.58        5.74      5.88
Fuel, oil and lubricants                1.94 3/  2.33        2.58        2.60      2.66
Spare parts                             1.39      1.66       1.80        1.86      1.90
Materials                               0.90 3/  1.19        1.26         1.28     1.32
Bank financed                               (0.96)4/  (-)         (-)         (-)       (-)
Government financed                        (10.67)  (12.67)   (13.42)       (13.73)  (13.97)
Capital budget                               8.22    12.97       12.20        8.09      3.93
Ongoing project (Loan 1565-PAN)            7.45     3.74        2.86        2.33     2.38
Installation and tools                     0.07      0.40       0.35        0.10      0.10
New equipment                              5.88      1.86       2.02        2.08      2.13
Spare parts for overhaul program           0.99      0.45        --          --
Technical assistance                       0.51      1.03       0.49        0.15      0.15
Bank financed                             (6.58)    (3.23)     (0.74)       (-)       (-)
Government financed                       (0.87)   (0.51)    (2.12)        (2.33)   (2.38)
Proposed project                           0.77      9.23       9.34        5.76      1.54
Road rehabilitation                        0.70      6.80       7.05        5.70     1.54
Equipment and spare parts                 0.02      1.73       1.50         --        -
Technical assistance                      0.05      0.70       0.79        0.06       -
Bank financed                            (0.44)   (5.77)      (5.75)      (3.28)    0.87
Government financed                      (0.33)   (3.46)    (3.59)        (2.48)    0.67
TOTAL PROGRAM                               19.85    25.64       25.62       21.82    17.90
Bank financed                             7.98      9.00       6.49        3.28      0.87
Government financed                      11.87    16.64       19.13       18.54    17.03
Source: MOP and mission estimates
1/  Excludes the metropolitan region,provincial town streets and former canal-zone
for which separate accounts will be kept.
2/  Includes 18% social security benefits which are paid from source outside
MOP's budget.
3/ Including initial allocations and planned supplementary appropriations as follows:
Initial
1981 Budget         Planned SupplementarY ApproRr-ations
Yuel, oil and lubricant            1.49                          0.45
Materials                          0.75                           0.15
4/ Spare parts.
April 1981



- 47 -
TABLE 5.3
Page 1
PANAwMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Roads to be Rehabilitated in First Phase of Project
(Length in kilometer, IRR in percent)
Sur-    Condi-   Type 4/ Topo-5/
No. 1'     Name of the Road            face2!  tion 3/  Rehab- graphy  Length  AAD 6/  IRRZ/
- 3.6     Gatun-Rio Indio                GR      4         4       F       41.7    102    12
01- 4.11    Paso Canoa-Progreso            SD      3         1       F       13.0   1334    35
02- 4.12    Progreso-Pto. Armuelles        SD      3         1       F       30.0    914    35
06- 7.6     Central-Sabanagrande           SD      3         1       F        4.9   1200    65
18- 7.8    Macaracas-Llano de Piedra  SD/GR    5             2       0        7.6    324    21
19- 7.9a    Llano de Piedra-Tonosi        SD       5         2       M       12.4    229     20
08-8.6      Chorrera-8/-Pto. Caimito      AC       4         2       F       11.8   1735    59
-- 8.16    CPA9/- Pto. Coquira          AC/SD    4        2/3       F        8.0    700    13
09/23-9.1      Santiago-Sona                  AC      5         3       F       55.0   1136     28
184.4
1/ First number is number of H. D. M. analysis sheet. First digit of second number refers
to the province (2=Cocle, 3=Colon, 4=Chiriqui,6=Herrera, 7-Los Santos, 8=Panama,
9=Veraguas), while subsequent digits are sequential identification numbers.
2/ SD=Surface dressing, AC=Asphalt concerte, CC=Cement concrete, GR-Gravel
3/ 3=Roughness 4000 mm per km, 4=Roughness 5000 mm per km, 5=Roughness 6000 mm per km.
4/ 1=Intensive patching and resealing of entire length, 2=new base course and SD 3=
asphalt concrete overlay or replacement 4=regraveling.
5/ F=Flat terrain, average altitude 20 meters above sea level, average rise and fall
11 meters per kilometer, curvature 15 degrees per Kilometer, average road surface
width 5 meters, OOndulating, average altitude 20 meters, average rise and fall 25
meters per km, average curvature 60 degrees per km, average road surface width 5 meters,
M=Mountainous, average altitude 20 m, average rise and fall 50 m per km, average cur-
vature 150 degrees per km and average road surface width 5 m.
6/ Average annual daily traffic
7/ Internal Rate of Return
8/ From the Autopista intersection
9/ Nearest intersection with the Panamerican Highway (Carretera Panamericana or CPA)
Source: MOP
May 1981



- 48 -
TABLE 5.3
Page 2
PANAMA
ROAD REIHABILITATION PROJECT
Roads to be Rehabilitated in Second Phase of Project
(Length in kilometer, IRR in percent)
Sur-    Condi-   Type   Topo-j/
No. j/     Name of the Road            facel'  tion 3/  Rehabgraphy  Lgth  AADT'/  TRRIR
10-2.3    Penonome-Churuquita Grande    SD         4        2        0     18.8      662     l8
11-2.13   Penonome-La Pintada             SD       3        1        F     15.0      936      58
15-4.1    CPA-Alanje                      SD      5         2        F     10.0      667      37
16-4.2    CPA-Veladero                    SD      5         2        F      7.0      509      66
17-4.3    Veladero-Gualaca                SD      4         2       F      12.0      578     26
'1-4.6    CPA-Remedios                    SD       4        1        F      5.0      294    '-
32-4.8    CPA-Las Lomas-Quiteno           SD       4        1        F      6.7      581    152
33-4.13   San Lorenzo-Horconcitos         SD       3        1        F      5.0    1162      -
36-7.9b   Llano de Piedra-Tonosi          SD       5        2        M     34.5      229     20
21-8.4    CPA-Utive                       SD       5        1        F      9.2      398    150
39-8.5    CPA-Utive Inter.-San Miguel   SD         4        1        0     14.0      299     60
22-8.7    CPA-Santa Rita                  SD       4        1        F      5.0      434     21
24-9.2    Santiago-San Francisco          SD       4        2        F     18.0      972     18
40-9.4    Atalaya-Ponuga                  SD       5        1        0     23.0      203     -
183.2
Roads to be Rehabilitated in Third Phase of Project
25-2.2    CPA-Ola                         SD      4         1        F     17.0      336     16
03-6.1    Divisa-Chitre                   AC       3        3        F     36.2    5091      55
04-6.2    Chitre-Los Santos               AC       3        3        F      2.6    6995      73
05-7.1    Los Santos-Guarare              AC       3        3        F     19.3    3926      36
34-7.2    Guarare-Las Tablas              AC       3        3       F       6.0    2585    133
p1.1
1/ See Footnotes on page 1 of this table
Source: MOP
May 1981



- 49 -
TABLE 5.3
Page 3
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Reserve Roads for Possible Rehabilitation under Project*
(Length in kilometer, IRR in percent)
1/                                 Sur-   Condi-  Type4   Topo-56
No. -       Name of the Road            face2./ tion3/  Rehat   graphy   Length   AADT./ IRR_
41- 2.1    CPA-Jaguito                      SD      4        1        F        3.3       604    40
42- 2.4    CPA-Salitrosa                   SD       4        1        F        2.5       217    -
27- 2.7    Nata-El Cortezo                 GR       5        4        F       10.0       108    94
28- 2.9    Pocri-Villarreal                GR       4        4        F       16.6       159   192
29- 3.5    Bateria 35-Escobal              GR       4        4        F       12.3       100    4C
43- 4.7    CPA-Boqueron                    SD       4        1        F        3.3       401     -
35- 7.4    Santo Domingo-Pocri             SD       3        1        0       16.4      1096    36
-   7.10   Los Santos-La Colorada          SD       4        1        F       17.5       461    -
44- 7.11   Central-La Espigadilla          SD       4        1        F        4.7       415    -
38- 7.14   Canas-Tonosi                    SD       4        1        F       22.0       339    1'
45- 8.3    CPA-Pacora                      SD       4        1        F        2.0       730    -
-    -     Sabanagrande-Macaracas          SD       3        2        F       26.2       562     -
-    -     Chorrera-Nuevo Emperador        SD       4        2        0       15.8       868    -
In case Divisa-Las Tablas or other roads are dropped from project
1/ See footnotes on page 1 of this table
Source: MOP
May 1981



- 50 -
TABLE 5.4
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
List of New Equipment and Spare Parts to be Procured
(in US Dollars at January 1981 prices)
(A) New Equipment and Spare Parts for Quarries and Borrow Pits
Number          Estimated Cost ($)
(a)  New Equipment                     of Items         Unit             Total
Front End Loader-wheel (3 cy)               6          75,000            450,000
Frond End Loader-track (3 cy)               3         100,000            300,000
Shovel (2 1/2 cy)                           1         250,000            250,000
Retroexcavator                              2         130,000            260,000
Air compressor (750-800 cfm)                1           45,000            45,000
Track drill                                 1           25,000            25,000
Pick-up (1 1/2 ton)                         5            9,000            45,000
Water-pump (4 ins.)                         2            3,500             7,000
Electric Generator (75 KVA)                 1           12,000            12,000
Welding Plant (225 kv)                      2            5,000            10,000
Tractor Dozers (180 hp)                     3          120,000           360,000
Subtotal (a)                         27                          1,764,000
(b)  Spare Parts for Quarry and Borrow Pits (10%)                        176,400
Subtotal (A)                                                            1,940,400
(B) Spare parts for overhaul and rehabilitation of
existing quarry equipment                                                450,000
(C)  Weighing Equipment- fixed and mobile        7                            109,600
Total Equipment and Parts Cost (A+B+C)                                      2,500,000
Source: MOP and mission estimates
April 1981



PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Year                  1981                       1982                       1983                       1984                       1985
Item                 & Quarter    lst   2nd   3rd   4th   1st   2nd   3rd   4th   1st   2nd   3rd   4th   1st   2nd   3rd   4th   1st   2nd   3rd   4th
Road Rehabilitation Works:
Detailed Engineering                               i      4x                         x4 X     Xx                         x
Tendering (t) & Award (a)                     l          m        a    X          _                                    aa.a X  t  X
Execution & Supervision - Phase 1
- Phase 2
- Phase 3
Upgrading Road Maint. Capacity:
Equipment & Spare Parts
- Preparation Tender Documents                                     x
- Tendering (t) & Award (a)                                                      x
- Delivery
Civil Works
- Detailed Engineering                                            +                         4 X
- Tendering (t) & Award (a)                                        .t        x                 tL  a4 X
- Execution & Supervision
Technical Assistance (Consultant)
Selection (s) & Execution (e)
- Assistance to DET & DI                                         X                                       __e4u
- Training & Scholarships                                                   s       lX 1-           e                              I
Technical Assistance for Transport
Planning
Consultant Selection (s) &                                           -  4     -X-                   e      -
Execution (e)
X Signifies scheduled review by the Bank
Source: MOP and mission estimates
May 1981



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Completed Bank-Financed Highway Projects
The Bank's First Highway Project included: (a) organization of
the Highway Department of MOP; and (b) reconstruction of approximately
650 km of primary roads. The project provided five foreign experts to
fill senior executive positions in the MOP directorate responsible for
highways. This provision became a source of friction, and the experts were
eventually replaced by local officials. In 1958, the Government elected
to prepay the loan, and most of the works to be executed under the project
were carried out later with the Government's own resources.
The Second Highway Project included: (a) engineering and
construction of about 300 km of feeder roads serving agricultural areas of
high potential: and (b) improvement and paving of 138 km of roads connecting
some of the above feeder roads with the Pan-American Highway and the Divisa-Las
Tablas road. As a result of cost overruns, two of the proposed feeder roads,
totaling 78 km, were eliminated from the project. CAM's performance as
executing agency was weak. The 138 km of roads requiring improvement and
paving were not surveyed and designed in detail before execution of the work,
and, as a result, they took nearly five years to complete.
The National Transport Survey (NTS), for which the Bank was executing
agency, was supported by a UNDP grant of US$400,000. The Bank helped to
prepare terms of reference and supervised the execution. The survey, carried
out by consultants N.D. Lea (Canada), had the following main objectives:
(a) the formulation of a detailed transport investment program for the period
1974-1979; (b) the formulation of a tentative transport investment program for
1980-1990; (c) recommendations for the improvement of the organization, manage-
ment, operations and planning of each transport mode; and (d) recommendations
for the improvement of Government transport policy and coordination. The
survey was instrumental in improving transport sector organization and in
helping the Government to focus attention on priority projects.
March 1981



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page i
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outline of Proposed Technical Assistance
A.   Completion of Ongoing Technical Assistance (Loan 1565-PAN)
Agreed         Estimated Period
Consultant's Specialization             Action         From           To
Project Coordinator                     Extend          12/81       10/81
Organization and Management             Contract         2/81       10/81
Road Maintenance Systems                Terminate 1/                 2/81
Road Maintenance (Field)                Extend          4/81         5/82
Equipment Fleet Management              Extend           2/81       10/81 2/
Workshop Procedures (Field)             Extend           1/81         1/82 3/
Supply and Storage Systems              Extend           1/81        8/81
Management Accounting                   Contract         2/81       10/81 4/
Training Program Preparation            Contract         2/81       10/81 5/
Transport Economist (MOP)               Continue        12/80        6/81
1/   Deputy Chief of DMV would continue system refinement.
2/   Until new consulting team (see below) arrives.
3/   To be integrated with new consulting team after completing equipment
overhaul.
4/   MOP reviewing proposals of five locally established, international
accounting firms.
5/   MOP receiving proposal from SENAFORP.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
B.   Technical Assistance under Proposed Project
1.        A consulting engineer, experienced in management of design and
construction supervision of civil works projects, to act as project coordinator
for the Ministry of Public Works (MOP) and for Certification of Statements of
Expenditures for civil works carried out by force account.
2.        Technical assistance to MOP by a consulting firm specialized in
equipment management for a total of about 68 man-months of foreign experts
(including four man-months of short-term specialists) and 144 man-months of
local engineers.
(a)  Equipment management specialist for 24 months (from 9/81 to 9/83)
to do the following:
- Preventive maintenance control;
- Equipment availability and utilization records;
- Actual equipment operating and repair costs;
- Plan equipment renewal (including criteria for scrapping); and
- Equipment specifications and procurement.
(b)  Workshop and spare parts management specialist for 20 months
(from 10/81 to 6/83) to do the following:
- Field control of preventive maintenance (by workshops);
- Inspect and do mechanical evaluation and on-the-job training;
- Establish training curricula;
- Establish maxi-minimum spare part stock levels; and
- Implement field control on spare parts requisitioning,
supply and accounting.
(c)  Equipment and plant operations specialist for 20 months
(from 10/81 to 6/83) to do the following:
- Assist DET and DMV in operator evaluation systems;
- Provide assistance to DI on improving crusher and other
plant operations;
- Establish operator qualification criteria and systems;
- Establish operator training curricula; and
- Implement field control of preventive maintenance
(by maintenance superintendents).
(d)  Six local mechanical and industrial engineers with experience in equip-
ment and spare parts management for 144 man-months to fill vacancies
in DET organization until MOP develops suitably qualified staff.
3.        Training specialists for MOP and/or SENAFORP 24 months (from 9/81
to 9/83) to:
- Commission a training center for MOP;
- Instruct training staff; and
- Develop an evaluation system.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
4.         Transport planning assistance to Ministry of Planning and Economic
Policy (MIPPE) by a transport economist to be recruited individually to assist
MIPPE for about 24 months (from 3/82 to 2/84).
May 1981



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
1.   Panama, National Transport Survey, N.D. Lea and Associates, 1974.
2.   Panama, Transport Sector Brief, 1981.
3.   Panama, Memoria Ministerio de Obras Publicas, 1978-1979.
4.   Organizacion de los Estados Americanos, XIII Congreso Panamericano de
Carreteras, Caracas, Dic. 1979, Carretera de Darien, Sector de Panama,
Informe sobre el Progreso de la Construccion al 31 de octubre de 1979.
5.   Panama, Informe Anual 1979, Autoridad Portuaria Nacional.
6.   Panama, Autoridad Portuaria Nacional, Compendio Estadistico, Anos 1976-1978.
7.   Panama, Guardia Nacional, Direccion Nacional de Transito y Transporte
Terrestre, Estadistica vehicular 1980.
8.   Panama, Direccion de Aeronautica Civil, Memoria, 1978-1979.
9.   Panama, Direccion de Aeronautica Civil, Boletin Estadistico de Transporte
Aereo, Anos 1977-1979.
B.   Legislation
10. Especificaciones Generales sobre Soldadura, Pintura e Inspeccion de
Obras, Gonzalo Cordoba, December 1976.
11. Anteproyecto de Ley Organica del Ministerio de Obras Publicas MOP
Departamento de Asesoria Legal, March 1975.
12. Ley 23 del 30 de enero de 1967 por la cual se dictan medidas sobre
dimensiones y peso de los vehiculos de carga en circulacion por las
vias publicas.
13.  Modificaciones a la Ley No. 23:  Ley Numero          de       de 1979 por
la cual se dictan medidas sobre Pesos y Dimensiones de los vehiculos de
carga en circulacion por las vias publicas.
C.   SXes 4esi workit-, Papers Prepared by Bank Staff and MOP
14. Project Brief, Road Rehabilitation Project, November 10, 1980.
15. Panama, Ministerio de Obras Publicas, Direccion Nacional de Mantenimiento
Vial Mapa de Aforo de Transito. 1979.
March 1981



PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
MOP Organization
Min ster
v ic-M nister
Planning
| Technical Committee }                                  -|          Audit
-|    Legal          |
Professional Committee                                      -    Public Relations
|Equipment Commite|
Board of Director 
{   diistration                                                                                         ng neerin
| W | .~~~~rc                                                                  Eq i.                                                                     es     ns    11_  ....................||*  
I             I I                    I             I                                                   Ii  I                        I I  I
Srovice     Pesonltnronn.                              Aconp.n                                                                                    Ametr          ad              eg
Po.    Prov.         Prov.         Prov.          Prov             Prov.          Prov.         Prov.         Office                      Chetrqui
of          Direct.       Direct.        Dir ect.      DDect          Dect.           Direct.        Direct.       Direct.         for            for         National
Boca           of            of             of            of            of               of             of            of           Streets         for         Ntoa
delas        Coc le        Col on       Ch irqui       Da ren         He rrea        Los Santos      Panama        Veraguas         and          Public        Railway
l i i i           [      J                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Drainage  Buildings
/ Programming, Evaluation and Control.
V Responsible for street improvements which lead to higher property taxes.
World Bank - 22582



PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proposed DET Organization
Director
iSub-Crector
Administration                                                                                       Technical
Personne               Accounting               Purchasing                General               Equipment                Prentative                Spare Parts             Workshops
and Payroll                                                               Services             Management               Maintenance               Management              Management
VVeter                                       Central                   |Central                                          Metropolitan                               Easternl
Region                                Region                                VVorkshop                                Region                                  Region
Chiriqui    Del Toro    Veraguas       Code        Herrera
WVorld Bank - 22583



'BRD -15638
PANAMA:                                                                    C  A  R  /                          A r    VA   N          S     A
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                              7
at   r\A,   r198>   srEm  AsylwhI  t  iAl45>tQ/nAg:11 .g_> [~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                   1   T
EL PORVEN R~~                                         _    __r       i 
fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
[   x m_   t   ~ ~ ~         ~                PrNANE itelt v1Gd#ys sAAtF ssA ItIAx i2s                                                . ,                                                                                        o-  D  A           A
x  &    z :X:    ::                    0   0         0           0 _  r   /                                              ,                                                !.e ' z  -4    4           u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C        0 NAB     
0                A          A/tAt                                                                                       A
''  -4- -/ t           ' J         >       X        =                                             1                                          \             >ff>Ar- -'r-N
CA:~~~                     ~       ~       ~ N- -+                                                                  V-                                       A                                                                                         
~~~ -                                                         -                                 O   1AA0  2F        A I!AI'eS       -\ 
, -      t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A     K    ) C / ,  /: ; :t_M:    
_                 _,                    _V -c                                                 __-lAb_a                                                                                                                                                                   9       _



