Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                j1t 0?l
Report No. P-3023-PAN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR A
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 1, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Iank autborizatls.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Balboa (B/. 1)
US$1   B/. 1
Note: The issue of Balboas is restricted to coins;
The U.S. dollar (US$) is accepted as currency.
PANAMA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2       =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )       =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)           =  1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
ABBREVIATIONS
APN        -  Autoridad Portuaria Nacional
(National Port Authority)
BLADEX     -  Banco Latinoamericano de Exportaciones
(Latin American Export Bank)
COFINA     -  Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(National Finance Corporation)
COPA       -  Compania Panamena de Aviacion, S.A.
(Panamanian Aviation Co.)
DAC        -  Direccion de Aeronautica Civil
(Civil Aviation Authority)
DET        -  Direccion de Equipo y Talleres (Directorate of Equipment and
Workshops, Engineering Division, MOP)
DI         -  Direccion Industrial (Directorate of Fixed Plant,
Engineering Division, MOP)
DMV        -  Direccion de Mantenimiento Vial (Directorate of Highway
Maintenance, Engineering Division, MOP)
DMP        -  Direccion de Programas Especiales (Directorate of Special
Projects, Engineering Division, MOP)
GDP        -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP        -  Gross National Product
IDB        -  Inter-American Development Bank
LIBOR      -  London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
MIPPE      -  Ministerio de Planificacion y Politica Economica
(Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy)
MOP        -  Ministerio de Obras Publicas
(Ministry of Public Works)
PCR        -  Panama Canal Railway
SENAFORP   -  Servicio Nacional de Formacion de Personal
(National Training Service)
UNDP       -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID      -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Panama
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Public Works (MOP) and Ministry of
Planning and Economic Policy (MIPPE)
Amount:              US$19 million equivalent
Terms:               Seventeen years, including 4 years of grace
at 9.6 percent interest per annum.
Project
Description:         The project comprises three components:
(a)  A Rehabilitation Program (1982-1985) consisting
of resealing, overlay and intensive repair of about
400 km of paved roads and regraveling of about 50 km
of gravel roads which can no longer be properly
maintained. The first 184 km have already been
selected. The roads to be rehabilitated in 1983 to
1985 would be chosen in agreement with the Bank, out
of an agreed preliminary list.
(b)  A Maintenance Program (1981-1985) consisting of
measures to improve MOP's maintenance capacity (a
program started under the ongoing Maintenance Project),
including: (i) purchase of equipment to increase
production of crushed aggregate for asphaltic concrete,
base repair and surface treatment; (ii) workshop
improvements and tools; (iii) purchase of vehicle
weight control equipment to expand and improve axle
load control; and (iv) technical assistance for
equipment fleet management and repair, training of
road and equipment maintenance personnel.
(c)  Technical Assistance for Strengthening of Transport
Planning for the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Policy.
Risks:               Iaad4aquate funding for the rehabilitation program and the
regulHar maintenance activities of MOP or delays in the
emer1laul of equipment could occur. However, given the
prioI -ity that the Government is according maintenance,
t:his appears unlikely. The rehabilitation program has
adeqi tate flexibility in scheduling to allow adjustments
in ca,se of funding restrictions.
This document has a reFsric ted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its cont,-nts may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Item                            Local        Foreign        Total
----------US$ million--------
I. Road Rehabilitation Program                8.55         10.90          19.45
-  Detailed Engineering                    0.55          0.29           0.84
-  Civil Works                             6.56          9.84          16.40
-  Supervision and Support Items           1.44          0.77           2.21
II. Upgrading Road Maintenance Capacity        0.82          3.88           4.70
(a)  Equipment                            0.15          2.35            2.50
- Quarry, Maintenance,
Weighing Equipment and Tools  0.10            1.95           2.05
- Spare Parts for Quarry
Equipment Overhaul              0.05          0.40           0.45
(b)  Civil Works                          0.25           0.50           0.75
-  Workshop Improvements             0.15          0.40            0.55
-  Weighing Stations                 0.10          0.lG'           0.20
(c)  Technical Assistance                 0.42           1.03           1.45
-  Advisory Services for
DET, DI and Training            0.35          0.85           1.20
-  Training and Scholarships         0.07           0.18           0.25
III. Technical Assistance for
Transport Planning                      0.03           0.12           0.15
IV. Base Cost (I+II+III)                       9.40         14.90          24.30
V. Contingencies                              3.30          4.10           7.40
(a)  Physical Contingency                 1.00           1.31           2.34
(b) Price Contingency
2.30          2.79           5.06
GRAND TOTAL                               12.70 1/      )9.00          31.70 1/
1/   Includes approximately US$2.5 million of taxes, whi.ch wotld be financed by
the Government.



- iii 
Financing Plan:
(Non-recurrent expenditures)
(US$ millions)
Local     Foreign      Total
Government                   12.7          -         12.7
Bank                           -         19.0        19.0
12.7       19.0        31.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year              1982       1983       1984       1985
Annual                         3.5        6.0        6.0        3.5
Cumulative                     3.5        9.5       15.5       19.0
Rate of Return:            Over 50 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3388b-PAN, dated May 21, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR A ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Panama for the equivalent of US$19 million to help
finance a Road Rehabilitation Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including four years of grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Panama's Development in the 1980s:  A Special
Economic Report" (2306-PAN) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
July 31, 1979. A Bank economic mission visited Panama in September 1980 and
its report is being prepared. The mission's findings are reflected below.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Although Panama continues to be adversely affected by sharp increases
in petroleum prices, it has managed to reverse the decline in per capita GDP
experienced during 1974-77. GDP grew by 6.5 percent in 1978, 7.0 percent in
1979 and by an estimated 4.9 percent in 1980, double the rate of population
growth. In 1978 the service sectors - banking, commerce, transport, communi-
cations and storage- were the most dynamic, while in 1979 manufacturing and
public utilities were the fastest growing sectors. Construction recovered
strongly in 1980; banking and public administration also showed great buoyancy.
Agricultural output has not increased since 1977.
4.        The Government's three main concerns since 1968 have been to
eliminate rural poverty, to increase national control over the economy,
including the Panama Canal, and to create new sources of economic growth and
exports.  Social programs in health and education were extended to most areas,
and an agrarian reform program was initiated. Major investments were under-
taken in transport, tourism, international commercial infrastructure, water
and sewerage, and power, mostly to provide support for expected private activ-
ities. Power and most telecommunications facilities were nationalized. New
State enterprises were created for export crops such as sugar, citrus, and
bananas; and a State-owned cement plant was built. Self-sufficiency in basic
foodstuffs such as rice, corn, and beans was also accorded high priority.
5.        The Government's social programs have had considerable success
in enhancing the quality of life in Panama, as reflected in demographic,
health and educational indicators. Infant mortality declined by 20 percent
between 1968 and 1976, while fertility rates fell from 131.3 per thousand in
1971 to 114 per thousand in 1975. Access to potable water for the rural
population increased from 43 percent in 1970 to 63 percent in 1976. The
proportion of the population enrolled in schools of all types increased from
less than one-quarter to over one-third between 1968 and 1978. Despite these
achievements, estimates indicate that some 21 percent of the urban and about



- 2 -
30 percent of the rural population continue to live in severe poverty with
access to employment being inadequate to ensure satisfactory nutritional
intake and decent housing.
6.        As regards the Government's economic programs, projects like the
Colon Free Zone and hydro-electric installations have been quite successful,
in the first case by increasing earnings from export of services, and in the
second by reducing the burden of rising petroleum costs. Perhaps the most
successful of Government programs was a major change in the banking legisla-
tion in 1970. This has attracted 80 banks to Panama; it is now a major
regional Eurodollar Center. Other programs involving direct production by
the public sector or affecting private sector decisions have been less suc-
cessful. Agricultural production programs have led to self-sufficiency in
rice and increased the output of milk, but have had less impact on the output
of beef, and feed grains. State production of sugar has increased exportable
output but the enterprise operated unprofitably until the 1980 price rise.
Similarly, State enterprises in tourism and cement, together with sugar
operations, have been a burden on the fisc. The entry of the public sector
into production activities competing with private enterprise and uncertainties
relating to Government labor and price policies adversely affected the climate
for private investment. Recent improvements in the dialogue between Govern-
ment and the private sector and a more flexible approach to labor and price
policy appear to have increased private sector confidence.
7.        The high level of outlays for economic and social infrastructure,
coupled with the substantial losses of State enterprises, resulted in signi-
ficant increases in the public external debt, despite periodic efforts to
strengthen the public finances. The public sector deficit increased from
4.4 percent of GDP in 1970 to over 15 percent of GDP in 1978. In 1979, the
deficit fell to 11.1 percent of GDP, largely as a result of a reduction in
investment. In spite of the improvement, the deficit was slightly above that
expected by the Government and the ceiling established in an IMF Standby
Agreement. Increased revenues were offset by higher interest and oil costs,
thereby continuing the virtual absence of public sector savings during recent
years. Deficits of State enterprises in sugar, cement and tourism continued
to weigh heavily in public sector finances.
8.        At the end of 1979, Panama's disbursed external public debt was
US$2.1 billion or just over 82 percent of GDP. Loans from commercial financial
institutions and suppliers' credits accounted for 58 percent of external debt,
bond-holding sources for 17 percent, and the remainder was equally divided
between multilateral and bilateral sources. Public external debt service was
13 percent of GDP in 1979, compared to seven percent in 1977; and in relation
to public revenues was 37 percent in 1979 compared to 27 percent in 1977.
These reflected both the rapid growth in the debt and the impact of increases
in the interest cost of debt held by commercial sources at floating rates tied
to LIBOR.
9.        Early in 1980, the Government of Panama took a series of actions in
an effort to reduce the public sector deficit toward a goal of eight percent of
GDP in 1980 and six percent of GDP in 1981. These measures included increases
in taxes on gasoline and cigarettes and in maritime and corporate registration
fees, improvements in income tax administration, elimination of several income



tax exonerations and reductions in current and capital transfers to decentral-
ized agencies and public enterprises. The reduction of these transfers
resulted in increases in the prices of 19 basic items including milk, bread,
and tomatoes, mostly distributed through the Agricultural Marketing Institute
and rental rates charged by the State Machinery Pool. Some profitable agen-
cies, e.g., the telecommunications company and the Colon Free Zone, were
required to increase their transfers to Central Government. The emergency
employment program--Plan de Urgencia--originally introduced in November 1977
with 1,059 workers but which rose to 17,146 by the end of February 1980, was
discontinued on the latter date. In conjunction with favorable sugar prices
which have reduced the deficit of the state sugar company, a major increase in
canal revenues, and very buoyant tax revenues, these measures more than
achieved the targeted reduction in the public sector deficit for 1980, despite
rising salary, interest, and energy costs. The resulting public sector
deficit of US$179 million, was well within the ceiling of US$260 million
agreed with the IMF. Panama has reached agreement with the Fund on a ceiling
of US$215 million for the 1981 deficit. At the end of March 1981, Panama had
a public sector surplus of US$18 million compared with an interim public
sector deficit ceiling of US$65 million. Further reduction in the public
sector deficit beyond 1981 will depend on specific actions to reduce the
operating deficits of State enterprises and on adherence to a public invest-
ment program of a size consistent with realistic expectations regarding public
sector savings.
10.       The strategy for recovery and growth of the economy now requires
that private capital and entrepreneurs provide the buoyancy in economic
activity that the public sector can no longer provide. New opportunities have
indeed been created for the private sector. The high level of public invest-
ment over the years has provided an expanded physical infrastructure and a
relatively skilled labor force. Investments in hydropower are reducing
Panama's dependence on increasingly expensive imported petroleum. Tax incen-
tives and financing facilities for industry are readily available. In agricul-
ture, recent increases in support prices and provision of credit facilities
are designed to realize the potential for increased production and exports of
beef, fruit, cocoa, and coffee, and for replacing imports of vegetable oils
and dairy products.
11.       The prospects for growth also depend on the use of land and facili-
ties reverting to Panama and on the higher earnings to be received by Panama
under the new Canal Treaty. Implementation of the Treaty began on October 1,
1979 and will be completed on December 31, 1999, when the Canal and all
ancillary facilities will revert to Panama, Already the ports of Balboa and
Cristobal, two abandoned airfields, much valuable land, and most service
outlets of the former Panama Canal Company's supply division have reverted to
Panama. The reverting land makes even more feasible a spatial orientation
in development strategy which emphasizes the metropolitan area, bounding
the Canal and traversing the isthmus from the Atlantic to the Pacific, as the
best site for activities to take advantage of Panama's excellent geographic
location. The Government is actively planning the conservation and further
development of infrastructure in this area for expanded private sector activi-
ties which would generate employment, revenues and rents adequate to pay for
these investments.



- 4 -
12.       Although the longer-term outlook for the Panamanian economy seems
favorable, given its geographic advantages, a low population/land ratio, and
large hydroelectric potential, the medium-term outlook will depend on the
public policy approach to certain critical domestic issues and on the perfor-
mance of the international economy. The critical domestic issues include rising
urban unemployment, the growth of the public external debt, the relative roles
of the public and private sectors, and the climate for private investment--
especially as regards prices and wages policies. The Government is now keenly
aware of these issues. It has developed and is continuing a dialogue with
businessmen, and has recognized the need for a more flexible approach to price
control and the need to reduce its direct involvement in activities which not
only compete with the private sector, but often operate at a loss. Recently
it has acted decisively to reduce the public sector deficit and slow the
growth of the public external debt. In addition, it is pursuing a program to
attract internationally-integrated assembly industries by simplifying proce-
dures for establishing plants and granting incentives and by training labor in
response to the specific manpower requirements of incoming firms. The effect
of these actions will be reinforced should the recent resurgence in growth
continue. The Bank will be monitoring the impact of recent measures and is
continuing a dialogue with the Government as it seeks to reduce the losses of
public enterprises, while encouraging higher growth and greater employment.
On the basis of the strong fiscal action taken by the Government and the favor-
able longer-term outlook we consider Panama is creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       The Bank has to date made twenty two loans to Panama totalling
US$339.7 million (net of cancellations). Of these, 11 loans for US$142.1
million, are fully disbursed (two for roads totalling US$13 million; one for
an airport project for US$20 million; four for agriculture totalling US$9.1
million, three for power for US$76 million and one for ports for US$24 million).
Ongoing operations include one project for livestock credit; one for fisheries;
one for development of tropical trees, two for development banking; two in
the power sector (for generation, transmission and distribution); a project to
support energy planning and petroleum exploration; one to help develop the
water supply and sewerage sector; one for highway maintenance, and a loan
for the Colon Urban Development Project. The most recent loan, for development
banking, was approved by the Executive Directors in March of this year.
14.       IFC has made three investments in Panama.  The first was a commitment
in 1971 to acquire US$0.3 million of equity in the Corporacion de Desarrollo
Hotelero, S.A. and to lend to the Corporacion US$1.2 million to build a new
international hotel. The second is a commitment approved by the Executive
Directors in December 1977 to lend US$2.4 million and acquire US$1.4 million
in equity in Vidrios de Panama, S.A., the first glass container factory in
Panama. These projects have been satisfactorily completed. The third is a
commitment to acquire US$2.5 million in equity in the Banco Latinoamericano de
Exportaciones (BLADEX), a regional export bank promoted by the Government of
Panama. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments
as of March 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



15.       Bank lending to Panama is designed to support the Government's
development strategy particularly as regards the further development of
Panama's service industries and the diversification of production and exports.
Specifically, the Bank assists those sectors in which it can make a special
contribution in terms of (i) developing policies and institutions, (ii) removing
infrastructure bottlenecks, and (iii) better utilizing the country's natural
resources, particularly its geographic location. In addition to the project
being submitted today, projects under active consideration for Bank lending
are a second water supply project, which would support the rehabilitation of
the water and sewerage systems in downtown Colon and in Panama City; a project
which would assist in the rehabilitation of the Canal ports of Cristobal and
Balboa as well as a loan for the second stage of the Fortuna Hydroelectric
Project.
16.       Both the USAID and the IDB have lent substantial amounts for agricul-
ture and for social services (including family planning in the case of USAID).
Past lending patterns are likely to persist, at least as regards the social
services, because the Government prefers to borrow on concessionary terms for
those sectors, while utilizing assistance received on harder terms for projects
which are expected to result in more immediate economic benefits. In addition
to agriculture and social services, the IDB is financing road construction,
industry and telecommunications, sectors in which it is likely that it will
continue lending. The IDB also participated with the Bank in the financing
of the Fortuna Hydroelectric Project and is financing a rural electrification
program. USAID expects to concentrate its efforts on manpower training and
projects oriented toward environmental protection. USAID is also lending for
alternative sources of energy (other than petroleum).
17.       The Bank's share of Panama's publicly guaranteed external debt out-
standing and disbursed was 5.6 percent at the end of 1979 and the Bank's
share of public external debt service is estimated at 3.6 percent at the end
of 1979. These percentages are expected to increase slightly in the 1980's.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
18.       Panama, a long, narrow country, is divided lengthwise by a mountain
range and across by the Panama Canal. As a result, the country has developed
along two main axes: one along the Canal and the other along the lands on
the Pacific Coast, particularly in the western part of the country. To the
east of the Canal lies the relatively unexplored region of the Darien.
Except for the sparsely-populated Caribbean coast and the Darien where air
travel and coastal shipping are the only means of transportation, Panama's
domestic traffic is basically moved over highways (97 percent of all freight
and 99 percent of passengers). The most important international transport
facilities, in addition to the Panama Canal itself, are the Tocumen Inter-
national Airport near Panama City, the ports on the Canal, and the Pan-
American Highway.



- 6 -
19.       The  transport system of Panama is broadly adequate for the economic
activity of the country. However, its deterioration, for lack of adequate
maintenance, would create a major bottleneck to trade and economic growth.
The Government is aware of this, and, accordingly, maintenance and rehabili-
tation of the existing highway system enjoy high priority in sector expenditure.
The proposed project would address the need to expand and upgrade maintenance
operations and rehabilitate certain deteriorated sections of the system which
are not currently included in the Government's periodic maintenance program.
Transport Planning and Coordination
20.       The Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy (MIPPE) is in charge of
sectoral planning, a function which was strengthened with the completion of
the UNDP-financed Transport Sector Survey in the mid-seventies, for which the
Bank was the executing agency. There was a deterioration in transport planning
after a 1979 reorganization of MIPPE's Department of Sectoral Planning, which
used to be in charge of defining transport policy, coordinating investment
programs and proposing the sectoral annual budget. This Department is being
reorganized to enable it to coordinate sectoral planning and budgeting. In
preparing sectoral plans, MIPPE has traditionally coordinated with the
Directorate of Civil Aviation (DAC), which is directly responsible for airport
administration, planning, and construction, the National Port Authority (APN),
which is in charge of ports administration, planning and construction and
which has temporarily acquired the same functions for the Panama-Colon Rail-
road, and the Ministry of Public Works (MOP), which is in charge of highway
planning, construction and maintenance. This coordination insures appropriate
allocation of resources among sectors. Adequate programming of the highway
sector will be aided by the technical assistance included in the proposed
project.
21.       An important objective of the project is to ensure that the MOP
highway program achieves a proper balance between maintenance and rehabilita-
tion and construction. To achieve this, the minimum estimated requirements
for maintenance and rehabilitation have been agreed upon. The Government
would, prior to undertaking the execution of new construction projects,
evaluate their economic and technical justification in accordance with appro-
priate engineering and economic standards, and furnish to the Bank, upon its
request, the conclusions of these studies in respect of any new road involving
expenditures of one million dollars or more. The Government would also ex-
change views with the Bank, not later than September 1 of each year on the
level of execution and updating of its five-year road investment plan
(Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
22.       Public investment in the transport sector, which accounted for
about 22 percent of the Government's total investment spending in the period
1970-73, averaged 15 percent in 1974-80. About one-third of these investments
was financed externally. In the past decade, roads have accounted for the
largest share of public transport investment (62 percent), followed by airports
(21 percent), and ports (17 percent). Since 1978, ports have acquired the second
position as a result of the completion of works at Tocumen International Airport
and the expanded responsibilities of the Government in the port subsector follow-
ing the reversion to Panama of the ports of Cristobal and Balboa as a result of
the 1978 Canal Treaty. A transport investment plan is under preparation as
part of the National Investment Program and is expected to be approved by the
Government in September 1981.



-7-
Regulation of the Transport System
23.       Regulatory controls for the country's port system and aviation
industry are administered by APN and DAC, respectively. Both institutions set
their own tariffs, operating practices, safety and other standards. Coastal
shipping is, for all practical purposes, unregulated; the present competitive
system works satisfactorily.
24.       Truck rates are also not regulated, and the system has worked
efficiently. Furthermore, truckers operate freely over routes that they
select, provided the vehicle is registered and passes an annual inspection.
Truck weights and dimensions are regulated by law. In contrast, road passenger
transport is heavily regulated through route assignments and licensing.
The effect has been to curtail the growth of more efficient bus companies.
The shortage of buses and the unsatisfactory operation of the system in the
metropolitan area have prompted the Government to undertake, with Japanese aid,
a study of public transport in Panama City. The Bank will have the opportunity
to review the recommendations of this study.
Ports
25.       Panama's foreign trade is handled mostly through the ports of
Cristobal and Balboa, located on the Atlantic and Pacific entrances of the
Canal, respectively. The remainder is carried on the Pan-American Highway
through Costa Rica and, to a small extent, by coastal shipping. In addition
to the ports of Cristobal and Balboa, the port system consists of the two
banana ports of Almirante and Armuelles, in Western Panama, the dry cargo,
roll-on/roll-off and petroleum terminals at Bahia de Las Minas, near Colon on
the Atlantic, the sugar port of Aguadulce, in Central Panama, the Bank-financed
fishing port of Vacamonte, near Panama City, and several small cabotage ports.
At present, the number of ports in the country is adequate, and there are no
hinterlands which remain underdeveloped for lack of a port outlet. The main
areas which require attention are (a) rehabilitation of facilities and equip-
ment at existing ports, especially in Balboa and Cristobal, to maintain and/or
improve the level of services and to accommodate changes in the types of ships
that can be handled (such as containers); and, (b) rationalization of the
coastal shipping system to reduce congestion at the cabotage docks in Colon.
APN is taking measures to strengthen its organization so that it can effectively
manage Panama's expanded port system. The Government has requested Bank support
in the modernization of the ports of Balboa and Cristobal, a project which we
are now reviewing and propose to submit for your consideration in FY 1982.
Panama's waterborne international cargo is carried in foreign-owned ships.
Panama does not have its own international maritime fleet, although the ocean-
going fleet registered in Panama is quite sizeable (2,875 vessels in 1979)
because of Panama's flexible "flag of convenience" registration regulations.
Air Transport
26.       International passenger traffic is handled almost entirely by the
Bank-financed Tocumen International Airport, which in 1979 served almost
1.3 million international passengers. Capacity of this airport is currently



- 8 -
underutilized, and with good airline scheduling no further expansion should
be required in the foreseeable future. Twelve foreign carriers are presently
operating combined passenger and cargo services in Tocumen, and six carriers
offer all-cargo services. There are two Panamanian carriers in the international
business: the government-owned Air Panama and the privately-owned Compania
Panamena de Aviacion (COPA).
Railways
27.       Railways are not an economically important alternative to highways
in Panama. There are three small railway companies in Panama with a total of
about 400 km of rail: the Panama Canal Railway (PCR); the Chiriqui Land
Company Railway, which is integrated into the Standard Brands banana production
system; and the Chiriqui National Railway, which is gradually being phased
out and has only 30 km of track remaining. The most important of the three
is PCR, the ownership of which recently reverted to Panama and is now under
the management of APN, although there are plans to create a separate railway
authority. In 1979, PCR carried about 600,000 passengers and about 200,000
tons of cargo on its 76-km line. Passenger traffic has been steadily decreasing
while freight traffic has remained fairly constant. APN has recently signed a
contract with a consortium of Japanese and local consultants for a study,
financed under the Colon Urban Project (Loan 1878-PAN of August 7, 1980), to
determine the economic role of this railway.
Highways and Road Transport
28.       Distances between developed regions are relatively short in Panama:
the longest one, along the Pan-American Highway west of Panama City to the
Costa Rican border, is about 480 km. The Pan-American Highway, a paved road
connecting directly or through branch routes with most of the developed areas
of the country, constitutes the backbone of the system. The longest
access road to the Pan-American Highway, located in the widest part of
the country, is about 110 km. Given these short distances and the many
scattered low-volume production centers, road transport is, with very few
exceptions, the most efficient mode of transportation.
29.       Panama's highway network totals some 8,400 km, about one-third paved,
one third gravel and one-third earth roads. Road development has been concen-
trated in the last decade on paving and improving the roads carrying the
heaviest traffic, and in extending the system which now links the most populated
areas of the country. Consequently, the paved and gravel roads grew by about
75 percent and 150 percent between 1969 and 1980 respectively. With the main
network almost completed, increasing emphasis has been given to construction of
rural roads for which IDB and USAID have provided financing. Earth roads, in
turn, decreased from a 60 percent share of the total networ! to 30 percent at
present.  Average road  density is about 10 km per 1,000 km  or about 5 km per
1,000 inhabitants, which, although low compared with that of more densely-
populated neighboring Costa Rica, is well above the average for Latin America.
In 1979, the last year for which full traffic count data are available, average



- 9 -
daily traffic volumes ranged between 21,900 vehicles near Panama City on
the Panama-Colon Highway and 100 vehicles on the least-trafficked gravel
and earth roads. On the Pan-American Highway traffic ranges between 313
vehicles per day east of Panama City and 9,900 vehicles per day west of
Panama City.
Highway Organization and Financing
30.       MOP is responsible for practically all the highway work in the
country. It has two main divisions (Engineering and Administration)
and nine provincial directorates in charge of field work. There are several
sections attached directly to the Minister's office. The most important of
these is the Planning Section. Highway expenditures are financed through the
general government budget under MOP allocations. During 1974-80, total high-
way expenditures, averaged about US$46 million per year (in current prices)
of which only 20 percent was on account of maintenance and rehabilitation. Esti-
mated contributions from road user charges have, on the average, covered
all maintenance and administration expenditures as well as a substantial
proportion of construction outlays. It is expected that this will continue
in the future.
Road Maintenance
31.       Road maintenance is the responsibility of the Directorates of
Maintenance (DMV) and Equipment (DET) within the Engineering Division of MOP.
DMV operates through the nine provincial directorates, including one in charge
of maintaining streets in Panama City. Each of the nine provincial directorates
is headed by an engineer, and seven of them have an assistant engineer respon-
sible solely for maintenance.
32.       Road maintenance organization and procedures in Panama are currently
being improved under the ongoing Bank-financed Highway Maintenance Project
(see para. 34). Testing of the upgraded organization and procedures for
preparation, execution and control of the annual maintenance program was
started in the two pilot provinces of Panama and Los Santos in 1980. Evalu-
ation has started of recorded resource utilization and costs, in the light of
resulting road conditions. The remaining seven provinces will be brought into
the program over the coming years. All provinces should progress to the stage
reached at present in the pilot provinces by the end of 1981, and, by 1984, MOP
should be able to provide adequate maintenance to all roads. The provinces
have a number of qualified superintendents with practical experience, surpass-
ing what is found in most developing countries. Major problems are shortages
of qualified mechanics, a substantial proportion of underqualified equipment
operators and road-gang chiefs and a virtually non-existing workshop adminis-
tration. Stone aggregate production capacity is also insufficient to sustain
the demand for a full maintenance program in addition to road construction and
other commercial demand. These problems would be addressed under the proposed
project.



- 10 -
Past Bank Assistance for Transport
33.       The Bank's first involvement in the transport sector dates back to
the 1950's. The First Highway Project (US$5.9 million, Loan 123-PAN of July
1955) was for highway rehabilitation, and the Second Highway Project (US$7.2
million, Loan 264-PAN of August 1960) was for feeder roads. Performance under
these two projects was not fully satisfactory, primarily as a result of the
weakness of the then existing Department of Roads, Airports and Ports, the
agency responsible for their execution. Bank involvement in the transport
sector was resumed with the financing of the modernization of the Tocumen
International Airport in 1971. The Project Performance Audit Report of June
14, 1979, concluded that despite considerable delays and cost increases, the
project was successful. The final product of the construction part of the
project is an airport which serves a number of airlines and the public. The
standard of workmanship is of a high order, and the equipment procured and
the furnishings are of good quality. The challenge to the Civil Aviation
Authority is to operate the facilities with high efficiency. In 1972, the
Bank helped to prepare terms of reference for the UNDP-financed National
Transport Survey, for which the Bank acted as executing agency. The Survey
was completed in 1975.   In 1975, the Bank made a loan for the construction of
a fishing port at Punta Vacamonte.   The project was completed in April 1980,
approximately one year behind schedule, with a cost overrun of 38 percent. It
is operating satisfactorily although some of the expected benefits relating in
particular to tuna transshipment, have not been fully realized.
34.       The relationship between MOP and the Bank was continued in 1978
with the financing of the US$12 million Highway Maintenance Project
(Loan 1565-PAN). The project provides coordinated measures to build up
MOP's capacity to the level necessary to carry out adequate annual programs
of routine and reasonable amounts of periodic maintenance. Appointment of
consultants and procurement of equipment and spare parts have been slow, delayed
largely by cumbersome procurement procedures which have now been improved.
Although execution of the program has been slower than planned, progress in
instituting improved maintenance management and improved practices in the pilot
provinces has been steady. Maintenance engineers have been appointed in the seven
seven provinces which have a large enough network to justify such a position.
Equipment overhaul is also scheduled to be completed in early 1982. Ongoing
technical assistance would continue through 1982 in most specialities, in
order to assist in the process of modifying standards on the basis of feedback
from the field and to monitor management of a complete national program. The
project is expected to be completed in mid-1983. The proposed project would
complement the on-going project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Road Rehabilitation Project -
Panama" (No. 3388b-PAN, dated May 21, 1981) is being circulated separately.
Supplementary project data are included in Annex III. The project was pre-
pared by MOP assisted by Bank staff during 1980; it was appraised in December
1980. Negotiations with the Government were held in Washington in May 1981.
The Government delegation was led by Mr. Adsinar Cajar, Vice Minister of MOP.



- 11 
Objectives and Project Content
36.        The project would support a comprehensive maintenance and rehabili-
tation program covering the period 1981 to 1985 and complements the efforts
initiated under the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project. Its main objectives
are to (i) eliminate the backlog of regraveling, resealing and overlays on the
existing network; (ii) upgrade MOP's maintenance organization and increase its
efficiency, especially in maintenance equipment management; and (iii) support
improvement in transport planning. The project comprises three components:
(i)  A Rehabilitation Program (1982-1985) consisting of resealing,
overlay and reconstruction of about 400 km of paved roads and
regraveling of about 50 km of gravel roads, which can no longer be
properly maintained. The first 184 km have already been selected.
The roads to be rehabilitated in 1983 to 1985 would be chosen in
agreement with the Bank, out of an agreed preliminary list.
(ii)  A Maintenance Program (1981-1985)  consisting of measures to improve
MOP's maintenance capacity (a program started under the ongoing Main-
tenance Project), specifically: (i) purchase of equipment to increase
production of crushed aggregate for asphaltic concrete, base repair
and surface treatment; (ii) workshop improvements; (iii) purchase of
vehicle weight control equipment to expand and improve axle load
control; and (iv) technical assistance for equipment fleet management
and repair, training of road and equipment maintenance personnel.
(iii)  Strengthening of transport planning consisting of two years of
technical assistance to the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Policy (MIPPE) in transportation planning.
37.        Implementation of the project is expected to take about four years,
from the end of 1981 to 1985. Project execution would be the responsibility
of MOP, through its Engineering Division and the nine Provincial Directorates.
Special Features
Road Rehabilitation
38.        The rehabilitation program to be carried out under the project (450 km)
would parallel work performed under DMV's periodic maintenance program for the
period 1981-85 (3,300 km). Roads to be included under the project would be
selected in agreement with the Bank. The rehabilitation works range from
regraveling to rehabilitation of paved roads with agreed-upon engineering
criteria. A first group of eight road sections located in the provinces of
Chiriqui, Colon, Los Santos, Panama and Veraguas, has been selected for rehabili-
tation during the first phase of project implementation (Schedule 5 of the Loan
Agreement). Detailed engineering for these roads was started in February 1981,
and tendering will begin in August 1981 with completion scheduled by mid-1983.
The road sections to be included in the second and third phases of the project
would be sent to the Bank for approval by February 1, 1982, and 1983, respec-
tively (Section 3.01(b) of the Loan Agreement).



- 12 -
39        In implementing its Maintenance and Rehabilitation Programs (1981-
1985), MOP would exchange views with the Bank on progress made and on plans
for completion. It would also give the appropriate priority in planning capital
expenditures to the implementation of Rehabilitation Programs. In addition, the
Government would provide adequate funds through its current and capital budgets
to implement the Maintenance and Rehabilitation Programs (Section 4.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Upgrading of Maintenance Capacity
40.       The project would provide workshop tools and civil works for minor
additions to, and improvements of, selected workshops to facilitate maintenance
of equipment. Two provinces currently have no workshop installations and
others are seriously deficient, while three workshops need minor improvements.
In addition, the project provides fixed plant for production of road maintenance
materials. The few commercially-operated quarries and plants are concentrated
near metropolitan areas while MOP operates similar installations in the provinces
to provide for its own work and, when possible, for the small demand from the
private sector. The Industrial Directorate (DI) of MOP was established during
a 1978 reorganization of MOP, to manage these operations. Through improved
management, DI has substantially increased its production at various plants and
instituted cost accounting. However, an analysis of its operations has concluded
that the capacity of the equipment supplying quarry materials to its plants is
insufficient. The project would provide spare parts for major repair and
overhaul of crushing plants and related equipment at 13 quarry and gravel pit
sites, three asphalt plants and four yards for culvert pipe-manufacture. The
project would also replace about 27 pieces of equipment for extraction and
transport of materials. To assist MOP in the enforcement of vehicle weight
regulations, the project would provide for the replacement of two obsolete
weighing scales and commissioning of four new weighing stations to control
overloading and five extra mobile scales for use on branch roads leading
away from the Pan-American Highway, as well as the organization of an aware-
ness campaign to prepare the public, the police and the traffic judges for
effective enforcement. The Government has agreed that by September 1 of each
year, starting in 1982, it would furnish to the Bank a program for the renewal of
MOP's maintenance equipment and disposal of its obsolete units and promptly put
into effect and carry out such a program (Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       Although MOP's equipment fleet and workshop system have grown to be
the largest in the country, their availability and utilization are very low,
partly because DET has so far not been able to develop and retain the experi-
enced mechanical engineers that it needs. The project would provide technical
assistance by a specialized international firm to supply three to four experi-
enced foreign experts for a total of about 68 man-months and six Panamanian
engineers for a total of 144 man-months, while MOP would hire some junior
engineers as counterparts to be trained in equipment management. Further
advances in maintenance would largely depend on improved procedures for equip-
ment management and workshop operations. MOP has obtained approval in the
1981 budget for 162 additional mechanical, administrative and managerial
positions including seven engineers. Up to four years would be required to
build up DET's capacity. In order to develop DET equipment managers, the
project would also provide scholarships for post-graduate engineering students,
who would engage themselves for a tour of duty with MOP upon graduation, and



- 13 -
short-term training overseas for key MOP staff dealing with road maintenance
equipment management. By September 1, 1982, MOP would furnish to the Bank a
training program on management of road maintenance equipment, inlcuding a list
of MOP's staff selected to participate in the post-graduate fellowships and
short-term courses abroad (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
42.       Training of road foremen, drivers, heavy equipment operators,
mechanics and support staff and superintendents requires the establishment
of a training facility, with an officer to manage the program, and
instructors to be selected and trained from among MOP's more experienced
staff. A program is being developed under the ongoing Highway Maintenance
Project to utilize the existing training capability of SENAFORP, the
training center under the Ministry of Labor, and arrangements with equip-
ment suppliers to provide specialized training. By June 30, 1982, the
Government will establish a staff development unit within MOP in charge
of the administration of training and other staff development activities
for MOP's staff (Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
43.       The total project cost is estimated at US$31.7 million.  Details are
given in the Loan and Project Summary. The proposed loan would finance the
foreign exchange costs of the project, estimated at US$19 million or 60 percent
of total cost. Cost estimates are based on current contract rates for works
and services equivalent to those included in the project. The Government would
finance the local component of costs (including about US$2.5 million equivalent
of taxes) and the recurrent and other capital costs required to carry out the
agreed Maintenance and Rehabilitation Programs (1981-85). The Bank's contribu-
tion to MOP's Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program under Loan 1565-PAN and the
proposed loan would total 23 percent of overall program expenditures. The project
includes 260 man-months of consulting services which have been estimated to
cost US$9,000 per man-month, for foreign experts and US$2,500 per man-month for
local engineers. This is considered adequate for the type of expertise required.
44.       The Government has in particular recognized that up to US$600,000 may
be necessary to supplement the 1981 budgetary appropriations for maintenance in
the categories of materials, and fuel oil and lubricants. The amount will be
defined during the mid-year review. Such additional budgetary appropriations,
in an amount satisfactory to the Bank up to US$600,000, would be provided prior
to effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
45.       Civil works would be grouped into lots of US$1.0 million or more, and
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding. Civil works estimated
to cost less than US$1.0 million would be procured in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. For bidding
purposes, road sections in the same general area would be combined into lots of
a size attractive to contractors. Firms would be prequalified to tender for one
or more lots according to their capacity. Civil works for workshops, weighing
stations and for some minor road rehabilitation not suitable for contracting
may be carried out by force account, up to an aggregate amount of US$800,000,
with prior agreement of the Bank on unit rates (Schedule 4, para D of the draft
Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
or more lots according to their capacity. Civil works for workshops, weighing
stations and for some minor road rehabilitation not suitable for contracting
may be carried out by force account, up to an aggregate amount of US$800,000,
with prior agreement of the Bank on unit rates (Schedule 4, para D of the draft
Loan Agreement).
46.       Procurement for equipment and parts would be subject to international
competitive bidding. Procurement contracts with an estimated cost below
US$50,000 and within an overall ceiling of US$500,000 would be advertised
locally in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures, which are
satisfactory. Spare parts for specific makes of equipment would be procured
directly from established dealers under the same regulations for individual
orders of less than US$50,000 within an overall ceiling of US$500,000
(Schedule 4, paras. B(l) and B(3) of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       The Bank would review all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$50,000 or more, and for civil works all contracts estimated
to cost the equivalent of US$1 million or more. For contracts less than the
above amounts, the Bank review would be made at the time of the receipt of
the signed contracts (Schedule 4, Part C of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
48.       Disbursements would be made against normal documentation for:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported equipment, spare parts
and tools; and (b) 57 percent of total expenditures for civil works, engineer-
ing and construction supervision and technical assistance. This averages
at 60 percent of total cost or the foreign exchange component of the project.
Disbursements for force account works would be made against statements of
expenditures certified by MOP and the consultants hired under the project.
This certification would be based on agreed unit prices related to ongoing
contracts for similar works (Schedule 4, para. 4(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Benefits
49.       Since rehabilitation and maintenance are applied to existing roadbeds,
only comparatively small investments are needed to obtain substantial reductions
in operating costs. The proposed project has, therefore, an overall economic
rate of return of over 50 percent. Benefits of the proposed road rehabilita-
tion and road maintenance components would accrue to the economy at large in
the form of reduced or less rapidly rising vehicle operating costs and some
reduction in road maintenance costs. The economic return for the first year's
rehabilitation program is about 30 percent. Programs for subsequent years,
which include the more seriously deteriorated road sections requiring more
engineering preparation, have shown rates of return above 50 percent, which
would be confirmed during the selection process (para. 38 above).



- 15 -
50.       Because of the highly competitive nature of the road transport
industry in Panama, the greater part of the benefits resulting from savings
in vehicle operating costs are expected to be passed on to the producers and,
ultimately, to the consumers of the goods which are transported. The road
transport industry is characterized by a large number of single-owner operators,
many with small vehicles. Since freight tariffs are not regulated, the
combination of greatly improved roads and intense competition should result
in significant reductions (at constant prices) of transport charges, part of
which would be passed on to the producers and consumers. Reduced transport
costs would have a direct impact on the economic activity of the areas of
influence of the various project roads, since most of the traffic is related to
agricultural and manufacturing activities and commerce, while facilitating the
expansion and improvement of public health, education and other social services
to rural areas.
Risks
51.       The maintenance and rehabilitation components of the project address
high priority requirements which are recognized as such by planning authorities
outside the subsector as well as by MOP personnel throughout the organization.
The economic justification of these components is well established even under
unfavorable hypotheses concerning project cost and future traffic growth. The
technical solutions adopted for rehabilitation and improvement works, as well
as maintenance, are based on appropriate engineering analysis and reflect the
experience gained in Panama and other countries. These areas do not entail
special risks. The scope of MOP's programs for maintenance and rehabilitation
was defined after careful evaluation of the capacity of MOP, local consultants
and the local contracting industry. The annual local funding requirements of
MOP's overall highway program (1981-1985) are in line with recent levels of
expenditures. Inadequate funding for the rehabilitation program and the
regular maintenance activities of MOP could occur. However, given the priority
that the Government is according maintenance, this appears unlikely. The
rehabilitation program has adequate flexibility to allow adjustments in case
of funding restrictions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Panama and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately. Special conditions
of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III. A special condition of
effectiveness would be that the necessary budgetary appropriations have been
made to provide MOP with the additional funds necessary to carry out the
maintenance work in 1981.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 16 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 1. 1981



- 17 -                                     Annex I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
PANAMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PANA4IA                       REFERENCE CF,OUPS (WFICHTEP' Ff IP,'Fq
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - MOST PECF77T FSTIMATF)-
TOTAL             75.7
AGRICULTURAL      17. 2                                MOST RECENT            MIDDLF INC0t!f                  0 ,'( l'
1960  /b    1970 ib ESTT!IATF /b   LATIK AMERICA 6 CARiEgrAl'         FT7PF
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  330.0       710.0    1350.0                   1562.9                   '749.c
ENERGY CONSUItPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALEN.'    448.0         683.0     991.0                   1055.9                   164!.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      1.1          1.5       1.8
URBAN POPULATIONI (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 41.3        47. 7     53.0                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONSI                        3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          4.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Ftl.                       14.0        20.0      24.0                    2P.                          2 7'.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      76.0        89.0     105.0                     81.7                    129. 
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PFRCEIr)
0-14 YES.                         43. 7        43.9      40.7                    41.4                      30, 6
15-64 YRS.                         52.3         52.4      55.3                    54.7                      61. 1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4. 0         3.7       4.0                      3. 9                     P.
POPULAfION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.8          2.9       2.6                      2.7                      '.6
URBAN                              4.4          4.4       4.1                     4.1 3.
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER 7HOUSAND)     41.0         37.0      31.0                     34.8                     22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     10. 0         8. 0      6.0                      8. q                     e. 9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2. 8        2. 8      2.5                      2.5 . 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        .           ..      15.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOIIEN)   ..           ..      44.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          88.0        94.0      104.0                   106.9                     113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  101.0        106.0     101.0                   107.4                         3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          58.0        61.0       61.0                    65.6                      91.0
OF WHICH ANIDAL AND PULSE       26.0         30.0      32.0                     33.7                     30.h
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      9.6          6.0       3.0                      P.4                      4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.0         66.0      70.0                    63.1                      h7.,
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           90.0         53. 0     47.0                     66. 5                     5.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         70.0      79.0                    65.9
URBAN                               .          98.0      93.0                    80.4
RURAL                               ..        43.0       63.0                    44.0 t
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCEtT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         79.7      87.8                    62.3
URBAN                               ..        92.5       97.1                    79.4
RURAL                               ..        68.2       78.0                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2700.0       1550.0    1259.0                  1846. 2                    03,,. 1
POPULATION PER NHRSING PERSON     3460. OC    1420.0    1452.0                   1227.5                     929. 
POPULATIOII PER HOSPITAL BEID
TOTAL                            250.0        327.0     258.0                   480.3                     2P6.7
URBAN                               ..        176.0
RURAL                               *-       1570.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         26.0      21.0                      ..                      17.
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.7          4.9
URBAN                              4.4           ..
RURAL                              4.9           .         .
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.4          2.2
URBAN                              2.1          1.8
RURJAL                             2.6          2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF TWELLIIICS)
TOTAL                             44.0         52.0
URBAN                             82.7         90.4
RURAL 11.0                                    16.0



Annex I
- 18 -                                         Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
PANAlA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PANAMA                        REFEREFCF GRIH!PS (WFICNTED AVCRACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIIATE )
MOST RtCENT              mIDDLE INCOIE           MIDDLF INC(FW
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTTHATE lb    LATIN AMERICA & CAPIYDEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION 
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS  /d
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 96.0        103.0       86.0                     99.7                     105.9
MALE                  98.0        107.0      88.0                     101.0                     109.3
FEMALE                94.0       100.0       84.0                     99.4                      103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 29.0         40.0      115.0                     34.4                      64.0
KALE                  26.0        38.0      107.0                     33.5                       71.1
FEMALE                31.0        42.0      122.0                     34.7                       56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  28.0          32.0       30. 0                    38.2                       28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PR IMARY                           29.0         2 7. 0     30.0                     30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                          23.0         21.0       23.0                     14.5                      26.I
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         73.0        78. 0        ..                     76. 3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          15.0        32.0       39.7                     43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        151.0        158.0      157.0                    245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         10.0         97.0      108.0                     84.2                     I*. 5
NEWSiPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        92.0       79.0                     63. 3                     93.0
CINEMA ANIJUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          4.e         ..                       ..                        5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        358.9       501.2      626. 1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   21.2         25.9       26.0                     22.2                      30.4
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)               50.9        41.6       35.0                     37.1                       37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 13.7         16.1       18.3                     23.5                      29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33. 1       34.0       33.8                     31.5                      40.9
MALE                                  51.1        49.4       49.1                     48.9                       55.9
FEMALE                                14.3        17.9       17.8                     14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5         1.4        1.3                      1.4                        1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INC011E
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        17.8
EIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          52.7
LnwEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          2.1
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          9.          .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS '
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INC01tE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      349.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      183.0                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      442.0                    474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      287.0                    332.5                     385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELQ1 ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOlE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URRAN                                ..           ..       21. 0
RURAL                                ..           ..       30. e.
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
_ong the indicators depends on  vailability of data and Is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959  nd 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 *nd 1978.
/c   1963.
Host recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other dasa are as of April, 1980.
/d The primary and secondary school enrollment ratios in 1978 are respectively
too low and too high, since a partial change to eight-year "basic schools"
allocated too many students from the primary to secondary track. The
data are now being adjusted to reflect the new system.
October 1980



- 19 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL. IfiICATORS
Notes:  Although the data ate dr, iron  .orcs             .enrally judged the eSt authoritativ-  and reliable, it ehould also ha noted tht they fl7 not be inter-
national ly Cosorblh bcas  ofte  ak of atendardleed definitions aud conoepte ueed by differeontuere Iv tolletiag the data,  rha data  r,ae
t     -fse    no1  tc descibe -rder  of sagrtode, iodic-ta treed., end cher.cte-tee certain  - )oe diftereecee betenen rau..erle..
i  efoec    ruenr  1   h   uacutry group of the aub 1eo  con.try aed 12) A nountry group with  seththigher averag  L.ous  the  the oenery group
of  Oe  at)sccooor   ecec fe  Capta  turplus Oil  opEte- e ' group there "Middle loI-e North AfrIca an  Middlecast" ta obs.-  heecse at aetoger
ucb-ocrlaf'ioln.    I   o   eeec  grop dens the averag.  are poplaio   wighted aritheetic fe.  Coo  uh idinatun end shee  only shea Al
least half of~ ~ ~ I the    I,,,te ,gagru  baa dat  for tha A Indo r   Sieve the toverge of caotisa ung the indicator. dp.'~da  -n the evailaility of
dota aud in  o00 ..ifot.c     _to0crh  earoeid to relaing eve-gee of .ne indioator to aotber.  rhe svrae  erg only uet1 Ia o-paring the vaLue
of on  Indi-atoc Atacisa   -.og the coutr  and etso f             g_r_up..
LAND AREA (otoueu  siw)                                                                         orletiue ear Phvstian - Population Ooigdd by atae  ut peanttinie  phy-
T-Il    T Ie  arfece  IAre  coaprising  Ian.     ra n.ld I::d,A    hutre                         Iin    ulfe    enaedtlabo                   at .u.v.riny level.
Ag Ecl,ra  -t tint  or ag-1ulure  a:rea toad  nepoarl  orpe-enily                   'PuelatiooneNuea  Peoca  - Pupalalun divided by neflerI a tt eoling"
for ceope, puscuron.erhIankitchegadoorto  i    el,;1977 data,                               file gad temel  gradutaeee  prninar               aae   n   gttn             se
PeolnanerEsItll Bed - tnnAl. urhag.tsd  tel-Pplnin(tenel.
Gity PERf CAPITA (US$)   GNiPf Per caylto etigate a   urotearho pros. 1u-                        urAn,edrrl  diria   yterreroletfe   o   epelbd
culanod by sn  covesion ..thod as Worl  lak Atlee  (1977-79 haste); l96i,                       vailabla In publie lad private gegea  end  psoinliged  aepinal -d
1970, aod  1979 dat.l.                                                                           bltt-aptL   -pI"ty.f
by at IAAet o-  phystetan.  Zteblislanne p,sdidg pioegipauy  -tendigi
ENtERGt COfNSUMPTION PtR CAPITA - A ...al  -osupyion of                 ...calenrgy  Iool         ar  Ara net ilelded.  Rura  heapitale. huserve. inelede health end esdiral
andcligoite, lptos e.ntural gee and hyd r-, nuclear and ge-hera eIlco-                         enters net penegtly ent.ted by A phyinian  (bHan by A uedi-Iae ll                oteenn.
teirity ) In kilograg   of coa  equinaleo.per capita; 1960, 1970.  Iud 1978                    nurse. nideif, eno.) which otte  L_-petIena_t          d    le      d pr,eaid  A
daoa.                                                                                          liited ...g S.ef sedic1 fAntlittee.  Fre  atenieioni pseepoee nets. huepi-
tale ialede WM1. prinoipal ganr.1 sd spnnialled beepitain, oW  -..eI
POPULATION ANtD VIiAL STATISTICS                                                                 h,epltia   ra   rorural hepita   gafd esdiaal sd saneonny rees
Total  PpltinKid-Teer (ilin)- As of July 1. 1960. 1970, end 1978                              Idisin  n gaetel  ad- Tta  nb'~a   of ed-minieie  ts er dianhrge
daa                                            te. rn hnspitals divided by the    b. aaf    beds.
irhn b   plaio  (percent of total).- Retio ot urban to totel pnpulation;
dfrgtdafntoeof orban aea  fl y effect ceParability of date                         DOUSING
anutng    po                                                                                                o..t! coountise; ~1961  1971, and 1979 date.  A-erags Siea of H_esl  (erensee  hoshald,   tonal. erhe. an   enl
Poeolucion Prof ectione                                               ~~A houehold noI    its At tgoup If fedividualssh  share living  .wat.r
Prltiou ia y..r 202i - Curren.t p.opulating.  projeoti..e urn besd on 1980               end nhe ir fits  -I..a   A hoarder e, ledger say or sy nn he ieltded in
toalpoolnin  y                Ineed setn hi   oraiyadfriliny fetes.                         the house hold for e.taiettoal purpoeae.
Projection pareesnrs foe earnaliny rates canpries of three levleae1.                    Avara- ntabar of Psrean  ner ro-  - tntal. urb-g  ned rural - Ave-ge et-
tug life anpeotenoy At bieth Ieoracate  trO ~th  -outry'a pe Iapita Ioose                 bee of pa..e.ns par roel I  all -rhaa, e-d renal  evouptd teewentienll
level, and fenele life eupettony  tabilisieg at77.5 Yn:--.  Thts pare-                    doallinge  reepeoti-aly.  D-eaelign c. ctudn en-pse-ane  sut-teras gad
enters fo  fertilit  rate als  have these lsel  carin   doline In                  unoccpied paine.
fnrtility accoding to iccr-  leve  andps  ftly plaing psrfersnoe ----                       e..  to il1-trioty (pnroet at d-sllian9     tetal. rben. sad  ura  -
tEch Iontr  Ie nhe ..g..igned on.o  tbene nine cobpilnattes of ertalitty                  Cnetiona1 d.elliags with nlotrtity  I.e living qurt.ra on parentage
and fertility trenda for projeotino:poep...se.                                            of tonal, arbes, And rura  dwsIlitngaraapeott-ly.
Stat.ionary cpulnotion-_IoIeAo.t.ionnry populetion therei Ia n growh slats
the birth rate ia eqoal to the death rate, aod sleo theg  nrt.to re    -    EDiCATItO
_ao   vntant.  Thia In achlen-d only Aften  fertilityrae  deoIII. to                  duidteoletRtn
the replacect lee  of ueit net reprdutioI rete, she.-h.. nobgenettondriee  nAoo  - totl,  il  and Cede. - lIna. tetel, sale  nd teals
of a erplace  itaelf eatly.  The.etttoocry populetianasueerlen  ut all  gsa  teptar   ea  a   aonnggs  eaete
ae~ittetd on the baeia of the projeoted oharacteriatits of the peftulat-                     pri1ery sofhel-ag          t poulilns  aaenJlly I Aclde obl-dran age  9-11 
intheea  2000, and tbe rate of decline of fertiliny eats tOrPlae-yara bu t adjue.td toe different I-sntha  f pefeery .dantion; fee
gen  -ene.                                                                                   -notries with gai-sra-  adaunnio  aneelletn say aond 110 peenees
Year atatleary coeuletion  Ie reatbed -   a. year whao atatio...ry population                  elf  gee  pupils arblo  ne  bove the otii.l sthesl e
e...ioe  Dc  unrahd                                                                           eudt  en..l -tonsl sale ae   el      a nd on above; eteedary
Per av. ha.- Mid-year populatio  pee aqoar  kilonter 7101 heotaras) of                         protidna  I.qniral rftlnalt forl yecahe  trIsf        giatat          a ppup.d i-yil- ib;
Pee e   h.  agiotrl.lad - C.*t..ned a  above for arcanfl.lad                                   ant1loded.; t
only.                                                                                     Oeaialsgule Iperoentetf  ..oa. rl   Vanatienl 1-iettuien.
Population hAs! Structure (eprowt) - Children (0-lby4 re * wokieg-ag  (IS-                     V..uetahinl  iatr.l  or ote    rgrssih  prt  idpn
6year),And esire             er  and n-er  .e Pern..etages of aid-y.a. popu-                 denely or as dapart,ests If aetendery  inetitatiena,
Iation; 19h,d1971 , and 1978 data.                                                           Pueul-techs  ratio -  ric.adanery-  o                  id t   anudante enrolld in
Popolat,ionGrowth hAte (pgrcent) - tows  - Annual growh rates of tonal nid-                      prisaryandl eanondary 1-vAfle divided by Itaer   of tenehrs is the
Year , pulations foe 191-hi, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                             nIraedn    ege
Population  Drowt hAte (reroet) - urban - A.t-..I grouth estee of urban pope-                  Adult literacy; rI-(,Ie,.           Iirtea a  (betern   ndsie
laniosfr   11-f  19S7. nd11..cAaperrentnge ef ftal. adult popletion agd 15 year  and over.
Crdo OiIRtbfae (tee thousand) - Aauua1 liva birtha per thousan.d of aid-year
popula tion;  96.' 1970,Ied 197i data.                                                  CONS7l9PTIig
Crude Death fits (ear thousanad) - Anaa"l deanha per thousand of eid-yscr                    Pasgegee  Cars leer thenogd  apuletion   - PeAle.e.gar ones  -spieeter
popula,tion;9196, 1.970. and 1978 data,                                                      oreain lnetnsght par-nna;  anladee ebulenne. h-ns  eAd
Geoga epeodotion fte-Aorgeuubae of daughters A .ona  wll bear in                         sOlitar  v-hiolas
her  -oee  reproduotiv- periodItf abe energae   p....t ga-spgif to tee-                    gWie Onnrr   ertougdeolte)      l  ye   tesevr   e   ae
tility rtas; usaly five-yea .. va...gue ending In 1960, 1970, and 1977.                      besadocene to genral public pr thouand of population; enoldes ugi-
Fanily Planing-A etue  Aenu.   (huad) - Annual eeber of e..neptees                               -ed rac..iv-re In onuntele  and in years when eistratia  of radio see
of hirh-oontol deives uder aupiteeof eatlonlf fnly planing progre.               wsIn effeot; date foIr.egoet ysare say net b.eoapa..able aos. east
Fanil Planina- Usrs (ne ten  of  _aried   oe)-Prcentage of earned                          -tutiss abeliahad 1Itening.
vnnof oId-hearing aer (.11-44,yeara) who use brthn-cn-t-e  davic.. to                  TV   I i,nste  leer ituh o  pesgto)- TV re...ivn.e tee hbsadat te
all earned wons  tt aune age goop.                                 general pblic pee thtouead popultion; enldae anlinsetad TV ...e.ve-
FODADNURTO                                                                                     In countries end In years whe  -eglttraien ef ri aete w-  in  tffant.
Inexo  IuId Predotiu   e   atit  (1969-71-lID) - lud.. of poe  -npitaaae                    ino   i"daily geere  teeet   sseaan2              dfnde te piAdic    ub
produtio  of All fod toeditoina.  Pudorciog Anoludee aed and fee  ae                         licAnion dented prinarily no ranneding ganr1 n-s.It Is tonideved
I  Io aena   erbauia. CoeoItII-  cutr prinAly grads (agR-. enana                          eha"al"itt apereneanfutisaoeb
ingtrud  ofsgr   hc   r   dible. And nontain nutrients (e.g. out fa   n                     iaaeulAtnate pa r Cee... te  Tear t-. Ace  onth.k.                    eeo
tan urn eladed).  Arggreg   prodoction of eah coun tr  is honed                              tinhkts aeId during theer  inoluding adaeaton  te driv-in ome-
eatioual unrage producer pic  eight; 19 615  1971  and 197i data Itd  obllo  an1t..
Per capita enely of nalrios(ecn  of rsuuiranate) - Cepatad Peon
energ  equivalet of net food epplise1t.  available Io .."ntry Per uepita              LABOR FORCE
per day.  Available eupplisecopre  d"'et Ic production, eperne Is..                     Total Labur Perce (th.Auands) - fnonuitAlly actie persona  Iuluding
enporet. and ohnges in soth,  Net a-apliee ealude anmne1 fnd, esde,                       are  frsea uoaespleysd bun  -oldinghgole,g ntndetu, etn.
quautitioa used In food proosneing, s.d             tosei  dietrnibunio.  Asquira-         eitnoein naIIu    unrs   r   o   neaal;16.11 
tens  nt  en.nti-d by PAP based on phyeiologioal needn for nosa  acti-                 2970it dt..           .....t.   .           t.wrbl;16,97Ad
vity and health Io...ideriug  .nvireunatal tenpeat...e. body anighte, ags               Peale fetetrn ) - Peale  labor farce as per oetags of tonal lab., fsrta,
and uno distrtbution of popolattc, and el11niug 10 percent forwaatest                   Alciou1lIur s (toec I        aa   oteI aig  foetr,hutn   and
houshold levtl; 1961-65, 1970  and19 77 data.                                              fiabing' as paeoetsge of ntetl labor forts; 1960, 1970 and 1978 data.
Per cpitasuppy ofpronIn (eraea or day) - PIroteIn oetent of per t.pit.             Inutry, lperoent) - Labor feros In mling, ennatrntiun, sefdet-ring
ort supply of feod poedy_        etspl  oftod is deineld Al above.   e                     and    otirioy, este  and gee as percen..g o"      f tonal labor forc..l 1960.
qucronunta for all   -tunria established by COCA pr-vidt for ninisu                        1907  and 1970 dana.
alownc  ofh  gr                A f tot lprteIn pee day end 20 gr-n  of anln1 and        Pati.ioiotion ga-  (rercAnt) - tutal. eas        fndele  - Priiat               or
puspoti,o  whic'h 11tgranshould he lonia  protein.  Th... stand-                  aciiyrtsaeonue   aIta,fl,gdelsabrfces
ocd. ar .owur obac, thos  of 75 gran  of tona  protein and 21 gSIa ufiiyrt.r   .Vt-.l rfr.A
aioul prtI   an   vcaCotewrdfrooe   yPDi  h   Trd                                       Percentages of retal  sal  and felsll  popultioe of asgsrep-ntively;
boldoPool torldnypI1961-h  h1970AO.Id t977Tdata.199b1,1970, ad1971 data.  These Aer  TWiA pacticipatian raten refle.ttla
"Y;ceiepeti  caTl fco 6   I970   an   use-Poel   upl   ffd              ds-7age-en   trute of thepplt                     o.ad long tine nrgd.  A ten enti-
.rtodio   enI%pl i.aaedple   it arenar pefa;1616,17    c1'   an. ftei paeenr  ftl - hatno   ouainudr1   a   1ades
Child(ea1A  ffotctt gat  (per th"'en) -Anoe  deah. Per he...eend In                            Cc the toed  labor bore,
'an  group 1-4 yearn, on childreni to hia ags group; foc eec developing cIu-
erOs. data derived fron life table.; 1960, 1970 end 1977 data. INCOME DITIBTO
HEALTH                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Perogatge ofPriat  Incon  (both in nash and hIxd)-  ani-d by riohee
Life Eopectanur at Bitho (veers I - Average nueber of yeers of life renaminig                  ofpoueh id.h.t2                 t    .r;                          ow4          .t
at hirth; 1960, 1970 and 1970 dat.'.                                                          fh..hl
mII ant Ootsit  hte  ne   hesd - Annual deetbe of intents under une year    POVLrtY TARGET GROUPS
of ag  por  hoosed lie hitIe                                :atdat......ue PInr-  Inonebowl (IS$Zer Ipiltei - orhea acd rural -
Accos,to Oat Peter(percnt uf oroleeon) -tutal   can   n   url-0                   Abslute poverty moose 1-1n Is tht inoea leve bI-o  whih A   na
uneofPeopl  (tonal  o o,   and rua)ee  reasonble atAe to cafe                          nutritienally adequat  diet plu  essen. tial ....s-od requreate  Ie not
wtr:nPp ly (loludee treated  erfa   onneAtra or untreated but anunta                         ffordabla.
oue tuh ls chat Coon protectud  oreholee, apriga, and eaniter'ywelle) as                 nEcti-d Reani- Poverty i-ne   L-ve 1(050p.oogea  -fr                        o adera-
pecnae   fthe ir  -ep-civ- popolatoe.        na   pe   raapbi                         ua   eativ.ovry  sus.elIs ns-hrd of avrage pe   -pit.
ContiooteIdpost located lot fire  than 200 enter I.fro a7 bo-ee  ay ha                 pesoa  Iooos  of the ...ntry. Orhan levlhis derived fern the rura
condrdtblg wit):in et..a..able  -...g of thor bon.I   ua  aee                       lvl th a -juateax or nhiblubronls  If living In urbe  arsAs,
rnaecabloccnnnolddinylypthat the h.oeewifs or aenhees of the houehl..t.asdPnoaIonOin    elt  oae    oe   ee  erat)-ura
dv not h-oe to  IpedadIsprotinte part of the day In fetching the                             enAoa  -Pret   o   euain(ra                        ue)woea"bsuepa"
faoil;' 'seatr used..
rura  - Naber 0f mpepl    Iota   ora,edrua)sredb nrt
dispea .. se. per-tneges of their renpecelvepopuleiena.  Ruoraa die-                                                        Oneeic And Seafe1 Dana Division
,en   a   nld   the colatio   a nd di.yasal, with or wIthout trane                                             o -ssl  Analyets sd PeeJatnnn  Opaenean
r i. .~~~~:I!   , _t. -b.-.  Y.t-   or th. ... of~~Onuber198
of bonnooeo       -ad   Iet-ontsr bywtr-boontpse-e  r na9ue o
pin prirleg sod smilertaClato



Population    1 1.858 million (aid-1979)f                                                                                                             A
GIP Per C.pitat US51.350 (1979)                                                                 -                                                            I
-20-                                                PAS.4  f 6
r    -         ffU     I   7
AUOnt                                                            Annual Oronth Rates ( A) Jo
(million MS at
Indicato                current prices)                                       Actu l                                          Pro1ected
1Y75                      1Y75      197i'    Y 1197?  1l97r1-                           119          l2    1Yt3      IW       lYo5       9 9 s
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS /c
Grona Do estic Product .      1,934.2                       0.6      -0.3      4.6      6.S       7.0        4.9           5.1      5.0      4.4       4.2      4.2      5.0
Agriculture                    334.6                      4.6    -0.7        7.7    -0.5       *1.8        1.1           2.6      2.7      2.8       2.8      2.6      2.6
Induotry                      414.4                      -5.6    -13.1       2.4      4.0     13.6         6.4           6.0      5.5      5.5       5.8      6.0      6.5
Servic.s                    1,185.2                       1.9       4.2      4.5      9.3      8.2         4.0           5.5      5.3      4.5       4.0      4.0      1.S
Consumption                   1,4S6.9                       -5.0     -4.8    14.5       2.3      13.8       10.4           4.4      4.3      3.8       3.8      3.8      4.9
OroG s Issestuet t               607.9                      10.0      4.0   -25.3      33.5    -6.2          2.7           7.0      6.3      6.2       6.2      6.1      9.4
Exports of GNFS                  851.5                       1.4      5.0    11.4       9.4       8.3        3.3           0.1      0.6      2.0       1.9      2.3      4.5
I,ports of GNFS                 992.1                      -4.2      -1.6      jL   --  L       14.9      -lp-3           .5       -,       -g,i      ..
Orosa National Savings          44S.5                       61.4    -2.4    -30.0    38.2   -30.6           17.8          10.2      8.8      9.5      6.8       6.7      3.7
PrICES
GDP Deflator                                                 4.7      4.0      4.0       4.2    11.0        13.2          10.4      9.D       8.0      7.0      6.7
Erchmege Rate                                               Tr        77       Tv       T        1-0 1-.0                 -5          7        5
Share of GODP at Market Prices (S)                   '          ,erage AnnuAl Tncrease (9)
- ___________(at current pc   bs)  1o (at constant 1960 prices)
19SO     1970     1975      1980      1985 ---TM            1950-70_      10-75    1975-8    190-85    1985-90
Gross Do.estic Product          100.3   1210.0    130.0      100.0    100.0    100.0             8.0        4.9        4.5         4.5         5.D
Agri ultcoe                    23.3      19.4     17.3      15.3      13.5     11.7            5.3         2.7       1.1         2.7         2.3
Industr                        18.S      21.8     21.4      17.h     17.4      17.3            9.1        3.0        2.3         5.8         4.5
Services                       58.1      58.8     61.3      67.6     69.1      71.3            8.5        6.3        6.0         L.5        5.7
Cona.-ption                      88.9      76.9     75.8      77.8      76.3     76.0            7.0         3.9       6.1         3.5        4.5
Gross Investent                  16.3      26.4     31.4      22.5      25.7     25.0           13.6        S.1       -0.5         6.4         5.5
E*ports OGFS                      30.6     37.3     44.0      34.9      31.2     17.3            9.8         1.8       5.3         1.4         3.3
Ip-orts GNFS                     35.9     40.6    51.3        42.2      37.6    41.0            10.3        2.1                    1.1        5.0
Gro.s Nationml Savings            8.1      20.5     23.2      15.5      18.6     22.0            [5.6       12.4      -5.0         9.8         5.9
Is 5of ODP
1960     1970     1975    1980
PUB.LIC FINARCE (Public Sector)
C5wrrnt Reemmaso                           16.1     21.1      29.0      35.1
Corrent Expenditures                       14 9     18.9      26.0      32.3
Correct Surplue (.3 or doficit (-5.        1.2       2.2       3.21     2.8
Capital Ependitur-                          3.7      6.6      13.2       8.8
Foreign FPincing                           1.9      3.7       9.8       5.8
1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
07HER INDICAT1RS
oCP Or-eth Rate (S)                           8.3        5.2        4.5         4.5        5.0
G0P per Capita Grosth Rate (S)                5.0        2.4         1.5        2.0        2.6
Enmrg Coso,wtion Grswth Rate (S)              --         --          --         1.9        1.9
ICOR                                          2.4        5.N        5.4         5.1.       5.0
Marginal Saeings Rate                         3.23       0.43       -0.28       3.38       0.29
Import Elasticity                             1.29       0.41      -1.33        0.28 el    3.9
/aAt markt prices/ coonentsare ex-presaed at sarket prices, net at factor co.t.
/h  Projectd years at constant prices (1980-1990).
/c  Grnoth rate, are for GDP in 1960 price.
/d  0.7 for 1981-85; the lo-er 1980-85 rate at". froc  fall in ipporta eacted in 1980 aft.r hasy haild up of atock  in 1979.
Is Oil iporta gro-th rate.
If   Pr.iaisary
/s   Groeet rates for  aditur  on COP ar  1975-79
Ma 1981



-21-                                                       l
Po.Otatio                 tln1          )                                                                                                     Par  5 of 6
GNP Per Capita:  8USSl     I
PUU-  UL  atA3
A_Mt                                                        *rate1 Oroeth Ites (S)
(Aillion 1                                                     (at coatnt 1977 prices)
IvAicat4r              *nrr07t Prices)       A_t_l_                                                         _        _       _       _ _d
1975          1_ 197'i 19y7                          1         979/a   1900/b   1901        10Z        983      191.      1905  ;
EXTEWU.1L 365
Merchadi_ Exports                  267.3         U.0      -19.3       9.4     -1.7               -6.6      10.7       3.5       3.8       4.5       5.0       4.8
Pri_'y                           134.3         36.9      10.3       o.0       2.3             -7.2.4     18.6       3.7       3.0       3.4       3.9       3.3      7*n
Mawolactures  nd other           133.0         47.6      67.8      10.2    -10.6               12.3       6.1       7.2       8.8       9.5       9.8    1.0         7-.
.Morch_dim  Laorta                 815.6         11.6    -3.1        4.1        5.8               3.1    -14.3        2.3       2.7       3.0       3.2       3.3       1.1
Food                              59.7         29.5      18.5     38.1        8.5               4.6       4.5       4.4       4.4       4.6      4.6       4.4
Petroa3m                         334.5        20.6    -24.7       -9.1    -19.6               -21.0    -13.9       -5.o     -3.44       2.4     -1.9      -1.4      -5.
MachSSry ad RgIpmt               156.6         15.2       6.9    -19.4       21.0              27.9    -30.9        4.0       3.9       3.8      1.2       L.1
Imanfswe,                        176.9        -11.7       8.?     -3.2       17.1               4.       3.6       3.6       3.6       3.6      3.6       3.6       '
R. lbt.riac1a                     87.9         23.5     -35.0      24.1      28.1               5.9       4.8       4.9       4.8       4.8       4.8      4.8       '.6
' I CES
Export Price Inr                                 93.2      95.3    100.0    104.0               116.1    128.9    140.9    155.2    168.5    183.9    230.3 . 
I.port Price Idx                                 92.5      96.8    100.0    125.8               132.4    161.0    178.5    195.7    211..    228.3    245.9          "I.'
Te-o of Trad. Ind                               100.8      98.5    100.0      98.3               87.7      S3.1      78.9      79.3      79.7     83.6      81.5      '1.7
Cropition of Nerchandise Trade                                Avera   nnual Icreaose t)
(at crnt prices)                                       (t con_stant 1977 priceS)
1950        31970N 1 7 1w           95 <p                1950-TO    S70-75         S5: _oO   190-S     5-90
Exporta                  130.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.3   130.0               o.a.       n.e.       -3.5        4.3        4.5
Priary                  73.9    74.2    50.2    S6.5    55.9    S5.6                                      4.9        3.5        2.2
Y mdactares             26.1      6.O    14.6    24.7    29.4    32.0                                    19.5        9.1       13.0
import.                  130.3   130.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0               n.5.       n.5.       -3.4        2.9        3.8
Food                    14.7      8.5      7.3      8.3      7.2      7.0                                14.1        4.5        4.0
Petrolem                 9.9    19.0    41.0    28.8    26.1    25.)                                    -19.0      -3.-2        3.2
Machinery and Squioont 22.1    27.5    19.2    20.4    22.0    22.3                                      -1.'        4.3'       1.3
Others                  53.3    45.0    32.5    42.5    14.7    46.0                                      4.8        4.0        4.8
Share of Trade  ith                Sh-e o Trad  i1th                         Sbhre of Tr-d.  ith
lnXuatrial Comatries (7.)          Delogin^_n s t7.3_ Cpital Sorploq Oil Ew porter- ()
970      19t              I960   1970 197                         1960       l970     1975
DlIRECTION a  TRADE
DIPECTION O TRADE
foporta                                 99.0      09.6      74.8             l.0      07.4     24.6                  ('.1        n.0     0.6
Prtery                                0..       0.0.      96.7            n.e.      n.-.      2.3                  n.e.       n.e.     1.0
Man.(ctar.s                            0..      0.0.      n..             08.       n.0.     0.0.                  0.-.       0.-.     n.e.
Imports                                 74.9  C1.3         41.4      2       -7      7.0.7     18.9                   0.4      1l.O    39.7
b   latlated
Ise 1851



Anmma I
Population         1.858 million (mid-1979) /e                                                      - 22 -                                               Pg  6 of 6
G7NP Per Capita:  US$1,350 (1979)
PAUMU     -  ALUMKI  OF PAD  MS. ZflJFL CAPCTr L AD
(dili,        a t emrrnt prireal
Actual                                                         Proi.cted!
V75        1976      1977        1978 '!   197S !        1980 /f   1981       19d2       1953       198h       19          .9t6
BAIAMNE OF PADENTS
Exnorts of goods a2nd services (NF)              851.5      827.7      90B.7      946.7   1,045.7       1,120.3   1,219.2   1,355.2   1,505.7   1.675.1   1.866.0           2,07 O.
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.                   (33D.8)   (270.6)   (235.5)   (235.h)   (245.6)         (301.9)   039.3)   (391.6)   (432.0)   (1,8.2)   (9Is5.9)            (6418.r)
Importo   : go'vcs and services (NF)             M.1        976.8      997.B   1,076S.    1,335.3      1,391.3   1,543.2   1,709.9   1,872.5   2,052.7   2.247.9            2,462.C
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.                   (821.9)   (784.3)   (784.1)   (862.0) (1,077.7)   (1.,122.9) (1,245.5) (1,380.1) (1,511.3) (1,656.7) (1,814.3)   (1,987.t)
Net Transfers                                     -5.0       -3.9       -2.3       -1.3       -0.3          0.7        1.7        2.7        3.7        4.7        5.7          6.0
Investment Income (Net)                          -20.8      -53.8      -61.4     -85.7      -79.5       -166.9    -193.8    -194.1    -187.1    -208.6    -232.5            -26.t6
Gurroc' Account Bal-nce                         -156l.     -206.8    -152.8    -21S6.1       369.4       -437.2    -516.1    -536.1    -550.2    -581.5    -608.7           -641.8
Official Capital Net                              79.2      290.2      256.3      513.9 /a  192.1         260.0      231.4      215.4     2h2.0      269.2      290.t3        3.11 ,
A-nortizati.n                                   27.5       11.9       86.9     10o. 5     190.0         197.5     191.6      267.2       379.4     332.1      331.8         777.,
3Dibursement                                   106.7      332.1      343.2     951.4       382.1       457.5    1423.0       182.6      621.4      601.3      630.6        .17.
i,i -,         't.l1 Net) /b                   61.4    -141.T      -167.2    -383.8         97.2         11.0       92.6     129.3      124.8      108.4       83.1          77.1,
Ioa-rury '-pit,[ Net /1 175.7                               31. 7       4.9    -167.5       100.0        166.2      192.1      191.4      183.4      203.9      226.8        264.5
* ntdtontif?ed privote 2nflowj, error,
coin,? on, s74O-14                                      27.0       59.8      253.8      -20.2         -          -          -          -
E::f 'NAI. CAFyiA L 41D DiBT
r-, 'inlcroureneoc                              7549,a     375.1      341.7     986.4/!  3R2.4          457.5
; f7lcio?  7rwnts                   -, 7.                             7.7        .7          .
ence^sions?  looflo                     7-(        ^S.~   ? ..           1 ,7      '19.
onn_c,ncec2n,io loo^n.
~f?c;1 hcpo't Creelir                         n.o.       n.o.       r.u.       n.r.        .a.
?S i       74.1       14.1      :1.8       17.(         M7.9
fth-r M'lti l.t-r1                             1?,4       14. 7      16.rl      32.1       ?.9
ci cot.                                      172.?      790.6      279.6      9n1.5      190.2
Public external debt /d
r't ut,tcndIng  -on  H .h,-.d              534.9        774.7   1,104.6   1,356.2   1.909.,        7,111.7
'fficiol                                    194.7      762.6      337.0      39t.3      461.4
Private                                     370.1      511.6      767.6      965.9   1,4SR.4
nAi,?n,rne? flnbt                            197.3      lSl.1      140.6      '.3'.I     353.
Total  r-jico r.ynent,                          77.4     ION.?       If5.7    571.'      401.?        S01.5
Int-rest                                     41.7       60.4       78.4      129.S      711.3        303,'f
05'OOfltS o,   Exto                             7.3       12.7     1.2        65.4       33.          44.7
Aver-ge Interest Rate on New Lo.ns (%)             -          -          -          -          -           -
Officalo                                         5.6        6.6        8.r7       5.3        6.!         9.3
lrivate                             9~~~~~~~ ~~~~~.2  R.7  8.4       9.4       II.!         ll.n
Av-rage Maturity of New Lnane (Years)
Officia1                                        21.5      IJ.5        18.5      17.8       17..         1 .0
Priv-te                                          7.8        6.5        7.0      10.3       12.:          8.0
of Totel Debt Otatarnding
.t December 31. 1978
Maturity Structure
Maturing within 5 years   30.5
Maturing vithin 10 year -   74.3
Inter..t Structure
Le. than 0.1 percent had interest payable in the firat yeor.
/IaPan   undertook I.-ee reftn.-,ing nf the debt In 1978.
/bEsti-nted we the differenc, between the reemerce gap  nd official capitl net.
c 1975-78 actual fig.re.. 1973-85  -nout required to balance the account, I.e., to a.oid deflating the econony.
Cotcty Progra   I
/d DMD at beginiing of the year.                                                                                                                  LatryA  rica   d the Caibba
Rational Office
/e Preliainary
/f gEstfated
May 1981



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PANAMA
A.   STATEMENT OF LOANS (as of March 31, 1981)
US$ Million
Loan                                                             (less cancellations)
Number       Year         Borrower               Purpose          Amount   Undisbursed
11 loans    (1953-80)    Fully disbursed                          142.1          -
1280-PAN      1976        IDAAN              Water Supply
and Sewerage       12.0         6.4
1397-PAN       1977       BNP                Livestock Credit       8.0         6.2
1398-PAN      1977        BNP                Fisheries Credit       5.1         1.1
1470-PAN      1977        IRHE               Power                42.0         33.8
1565-PAN      1978        Republic           Highway
of Panama          Maintenance        12.0          6.8
1641-PAN      1978        COFINA             Industrial Credit   15.0           6.8
1672-PAN      1979        BNP                Tropical Tree
Crop Dev.          19.0         16.1
1778-PAN      1980        IRHE               Power                 23.0        22.8
1878-PAN      1980        Republic
of Panama        Urban                35.0         34.8
1954-PAN      1981        Republic           Energy Planning
of Panama          and Petroleum       6.5          6.5
1955-PAN      1981        COFINA             Industrial
Credit II          20.0        20.0
Total (less cancellations)                         339.7        161.3
of which has been repaid                          35.3
Total now outstanding                              304.4
Amount sold                         9.2
of which has been repaid          8.4              0.8
Total now held by Bank                             303.6
Total undisbursed                                              161.3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ Million
Year                                                      Loan    Equity   Total
1971        Corporacion de Desarrollo Hotelero              1.2     0.3       1.5
1978        Vidrios Panamenos, S.A.                         2.4      1.4      3.8
1979        Banco Latinoamericano de
Exportaciones, S.A.                              -     2.5      2.5
Total gross commitments                         3.6     4.2       7.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, and sales                        0.4      0.3      0.7
Total commitments now held by IFC              3.2      3.9       7.1
Total undisbursed                                -      0.1       0.1



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 1280:      Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$12 Million Loan of
June 9, 1976; Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
The project includes: improvement of the distribution facilities in the
low-income district of El Chorrillo in Panama City; construction of a water
treatment plant to serve Colon; improvement of the water treatment plant of
the City of Chorrera; provision of water to the town of Arraijan and the
fishing port of Vacamonte; purchase and installation of 30,000 water meters;
technical assistance to improve the organization of IDAAN and to install a
new accounting and commercial system. Project execution has been slower
than estimated at appraisal due in part to changes in the management of the
Borrower. As a result of the changes, there were delays in the selection of
the consultants to carry out the engineering of the Colon treatment plant and
the rehabilitation of the Chorrera treatment plant, the largest components of
the project. Construction of all project components has started and is
proceeding well, and no further delays are expected. Some of the expected
improvements in the accounting and commercial systems have been carried out:
asset valuation has been completed and the billing and collection system
improved. The company has been financially sound largely as a result of
substantial increases in water rates in 1976 and 1977. In addition, on the
recommendation of the Bank, IDAAN recently agreed to seek the assistance
of a financial expert from the World Health Organization to help it in
carrying out additional improvements.
Loan 1397:    Second Livestock Development Project; US$8 Million Loan of
April 25, 1977; Closing Date: August 31, 1982.
The project includes financing for small and medium scale milk producers;
for livestock breeding facilities, and technical assistance. Changes in the
milk legislation required in connection with the project involve a modification
in the method of determining the price paid to producers: the price of milk
is now determined by the building standards of the farms. The modified legis-
lation will require that producers be paid according to the quality of milk
produced. The legislation was approved in 1978 and the Government is taking
steps to ensure its implementation scheduled for 1982. Earlier this year,
the Bank agreed to modify the livestock breeding farm component which was
to be carried out in an autonomous state farm that has now become part of
a military base; it will now be carried out in five different research
extension farms of the Ministry of Agriculture. Loan commitments for the
small- and medium-scale milk producers, the most important component of the
project, are behind appraisal schedule due to delays in commitments in 1977,
the year of the Canal Treaty ratification. However, demand for credit under
the project is now reported to be good, and it is estimated that project funds
will be fully committed only slightly behind appraisal estimates.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Loan 1398:      Second Fisheries Project; US$5.1 Million Loan of April 25, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project includes the construction of ten new purse seiners, the rehabilita-
tion of ten wooden shrimp trawlers; the relocation of shrimp processing
plants to the new fishing port at Punta Vacamonte; the development of fresh
water fish and oyster farms, and technical assistance. The purse seiner
component has been substantially completed: the boats have been constructed
and credit given to the beneficiaries. The fresh water fish and oyster farm
development components are proceeding on schedule. In February 1980, US$2.4
million was cancelled from the loan because (i) the unit cost of the purse
seiners was lower than estimated at appraisal; (ii) the demand for six shrimp
processing plants was lower than expected; and (iii) there was no demand for
the new shrimp vessels which were initially included in the project. The
shrimp vessel component was deleted from the project.
Loan 1470:      Fourth Power (Fortuna Hydroelectric) Project:  US$42 Million
Loan of July 1, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project, cofinanced by the IDB (US$98 million) and suppliers, consists of
the construction of the 255 MW Fortuna Hydroelectric Project, and associated
transmission as well as technical assistance for organizational improvement
and a training program for the Borrower. All major contracts have been
awarded. The underground civil works, financed by the IDB, are about six
months behind the schedule agreed with the contractors--IMPREGILO (Italy)--
due primarily to the contractors' inability to meet its excavation rate
targets for the tunnels and underground cavern. Further delays could occur
due to deposits of decomposed rock encountered in the tunnel's path and in
the cavern. Since the schedule agreed with the contractors was more opti-
mistic than the appraisal estimates of construction, the project is still
expected to be commissioned by mid-1983 as estimated at appraisal. The
organization and training programs, being financed by the Bank, are expected
to be completed in mid-1981.
Loan 1565:      Highway Maintenance Project:  US$12 Million Loan of June 30,
1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project finances equipment, spare parts and technical assistance required
to implement a four-year road maintenance program, which would strengthen the
maintenance capability of the Ministry of Public Works. The project started
about one year behind schedule due to delays in fielding a team of consultants,
instead of a consulting firm, as a consequence of a change in government
policy. A group of seven experts is now working in Panama in two pilot
provinces. Procurement of maintenance equipment and spare parts is underway
and project is now progressing satisfactorily.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan 1641:      Development Banking Project:  US$15 Million Loan of January 23,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project would help finance the estimated foreign exchange component of
subloans and equity investments for the acquisition of fixed assets and perm-
anent working capital by productive private and public sector enterprises in
the manufacturing, service and tourism sectors. The loan only became effective
on September 25, 1979 because of delays in obtaining Government guarantees
covering COFINA's exposure in several enterprises in excess of the limits
stipulated in COFINA's Policy Statement. The problem was resolved and subloan
commitments have moved faster than appraisal estimates and the loan will be
committed ahead of schedule. Recent changes in COFINA's management and senior
staff have improved the prospects for building a strong institution.
Loan 1672:      Tropical Tree Crop Development Project:  US$19 Million Loan of
April 25, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project consists of (i) long-term financing for the renovation of 1,500 ha
of coffee; (ii) long-term financing for the planting of 600 ha of coffee and
the planting of an additional 1,900 ha of cocoa; (iii) the planting of 1,000 ha
of bananas on land worked by three agrarian reform groups; (iv) the planting
of 3,000 ha of oil palm principally on land worked by agrarian reform groups
and the construction of the first stage of an oil processing plant; and (v) con-
sulting services to assist and train local coffee, cocoa and oil palm techni-
cians and to assist in operating an evaluation system to assess the impact of
the cocoa and coffee programs. The coffee and cocoa components are proceeding
satisfactorily. The banana component has suffered delays because of a change
in management in one of the key implementing organizations, the Banana Corporation
of the Pacific (COBAPA) which led to a deterioration of its finances and technical
capability.  The Government is considering the transfer of COBAPA's responsibilities
for the banana component to the Ministry of Agriculture. This should help resolve
the problem.
Loan 1778:      Fifth Power Project:  US$23 Million Loan of January 30,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of a program designed to rehabilitate and expand IRHE's
subtransmission and distribution systems in the 1980-83 period. Procurement
of equipment is proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1878:      Colon Urban Development Project:  US$35 Million Loan of
August 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project, which is cofinanced by a group of commercial banks led by the
Industrial Bank of Japan, consists of a program designed to rehabilitate
Colon as an economic growth center; to alleviate poverty through employ-
ment generation and improve the provision of urban and regional services.
It includes extension of the existing Free Zone; urbanization of new areas
including the construction of about 4,000 new dwellings; improvements to
the urban and regional infrastructure and technical assistance. Formal
arrangements among the various government agencies implementing the project
has been finalized and the project is being executed as planned. Procurement
of all project components is on schedule.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan 1954-PAN: Energy Planning and Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
of April 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project would assist the Government in accelerating petroleum explora-
tion, improving energy planning, and investigating the potential for
development of energy alternatives. This loan, signed on April 23, 1981,
is not yet effective.
Loan 1955-PAN: Second Development Banking Project; US$20 Million Loan of
April 22, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project would help finance subloans and equity investments of the
Corporacion Financiera Nacional (COFINA) for the acquisition of fixed assets
and permanent working capital by prodictive private and public sector
enterprises in the manufacturing and related subsectors such as tourism.
The loan would also finance up to US$200 for technical assistance and staff
training to strengthen COFINA's operational capability, and up to US$200,000
for studies and consultant services for COFINA's promotional activities.
This loan, signed on April 22, 1981, is not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PANAMA
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation - Preappraisal
(1)  Project prepared by:           Ministry of Public Works
(2)  Initial request for Bank
financing:                     February 1980
(3)  First Bank mission to
consider project:              April 1980
(b)  Appraisal Mission Departure:         December 1980
(c)  Negotiations Completed:              May 14, 1981
(d)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:          October 1981
II.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None contemplated.
III.   Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained that:
1.   The Government would, prior to undertaking the execution of new
road construction projects, evaluate their economic and technical
justification in accordance with appropriate engineering and
economic standards, and furnish to the Bank, upon its request,
the conclusions of these studies in respect of any new road
involving expenditures of US$1.0 million or more. The Govern-
ment would also exchange views with the Bank, not later than
September 1 of each year, on the level of execution and
updating of its five-year road investment plan (para. 21);
2.   By June 30, 1982, the Government would establish a staff develop-
ment unit within MOP, and MOP would send to the Bank by September 1,
1982, a training program on the management of road maintenance equip-
ment, including the list of MOP's staff selected to participate in it
(paras. 41 and 42);



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
3.   the Government would send to the Bank a program for the renewal
of MOP's maintenance equipment and disposal of its obsolete units
by September 1 of each year starting in 1982, and would promptly
put into effect and carry out such a program (para. 40);
4.   the Government would send to the Bank for approval the road
sections to be included in the second and third phases of the
project by February 1, 1982 and 1983, respectively (para. 38);
5.   the Government would provide adequate funds in its recurrent
and capital budgets to implement the Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Programs (para. 39);
6.   prior to effectiveness of the proposed loan, the Government
would make budgetary appropriations, satisfactory to the Bank,
of up to US$600,000, to provide MOP with additional funds which
may be required to carry out the maintenance works for the year
1981 (para. 44).






IBR D-15638
It                            '4                                                                      454,L  4flL EN
F' ~~                                                   PANAMA                                                     CA   B/B   BEAN                          ~ ~                                                      Oct44
<~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o-t
DELTIYMRODW RA .TAIn,  RJCTL                                                                                                                                          '
~~~~~~*               ,                                                                                                                                       jA   (    44454   4
o  "'4~~~~~V   ~~!rn  t'4,  .!4t~                              f            n 
I A                                                                                                                                    E"' 
P -  4nP    j4~~~~44   '   . .                                                                       tAANS,t  tANA~~~~MA  B ' I  A
y         P4 A("                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,'45



