Report No. PID9623
Project Name                     Argentina-Family Strengthening and Social...
Capital Promotion Project-PROFAM (LIL)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Institutional Development (BI)
Project ID                       ARPE70374
Borrower                         Republic of Argentina
Implementation Agency            Consejo Nacional de la Mujer (National
Council of Women/CNM)
AV. R.S. Pena 648, 7P. "A"
(1035)-Capital Federal
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Date this PID prepared           July 31, 2000
Date initial PID prepared        July 31, 2000
Tentative Project Appraisal
Date                             October 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.      Family and Poverty. Poverty and family organization are intrinsically
linked because it is at the family level and based on how gender and
generational roles are organized that individuals make decision on their time
allocation and on acquiring and spending resources. Whether gender roles are
too segregated, or whether they are more interchangeable and balanced, will
affect the allocation of resources, including reproductive, the acquisition
of human capital and the earning of an income. One of the most conspicuous
consequences of the association between poverty and segregation of gender
roles has been the deterioration of family cohesion and consequently its
ability to mobilize resources to face the challenges of poverty. Moreover,
when gender roles are too segregated and the opportunities to fill their
expectations are not available, family and community are disrupted with
frustration and violence easily erupting. PROFAM has been designed as an
instrument to strengthen family cohesion, solidarity between male and female
members, and capacity for conscious socioeconomic .
2.      Since the launching of the Convertibility Plan in 1991, Argentina has
experienced a strong average growth, with the size of the economy doubling
from 1990 to 1999. However, since 1995, when the economy shrank after the
devaluation of the Mexican peso, and principally since 1998, as a result of
the combined effects of the East-Asia crisis, the devaluation of the Russian
ruble and of the Brazilian real, and the deterioration of commodities prices,
growth decelerated and the GDP is estimated to experienced and overall
decline of 3.5 percent in 1999. Unemployment, after falling to about 12
percent from the high of 18 percent reached in 1996, increased to almost 15
percent. Moreover, while many social indicators have improved in the past ten
years (infant mortality has decreased from 25 deaths per 1000 birth in 1991
to about 18 deaths per 1000 births in 1998), poverty levels have remained
high.
3.      Argentina's noteworthy achievements in reducing gender gaps and



addressing gender-differentiated has not yet, in many ways, reached the poor.
As indicated in the most recent Poverty Assessment (Poor People in a Rich
Country) and as highlighted in the most recent CAS, the poor in Argentina are
those with the greatest family obligations and dependents. Looking at the
urban poor, only the poor: (a) have a significantly large family, and
consequently 43 percent of the population live below the poverty line; (b)
have younger families with a high dependency ration; and (c) have high
unemployment - twice the ratio of non- poor. The 1997 household survey shows
that 52 percent of the Argentinean families have children under the age of
fourteen, with one fourth of families in the poorest quintile having three or
more children under the age of fourteen. Results from a more recent survey
(2000 Social Capital Survey) show that households located in the lowest
income quintile, 32.4 percent of residents were less than 12 years, whereas
in those in the highest quintile, this proportion dropped to 8.4 percent.
Also, the same survey indicates the presence of at least one unemployed
person in 52 percent the poorest households in contrast with their presence
in only 11.2 percent in the highest income quintile.
4.      According to the 2000 Gender Issues Report in Argentina, while fertility
rates is low in comparison to other countries in the regions, rates vary
widely across socioeconomic groups, with rural and marginal urban areas in
disadvantage in terms of access to services and information. Indeed, women
consulted for the social assessment during project preparation were unaware
of the linkage between multiple pregnancies, poverty and their poor health
status. To be either pregnant or nursing was very often accepted women's
destiny. Potential PROFAM beneficiaries consulted as through the social
assessment (SA) also revealed that despite already having numerous children
at a very young age (sometimes five children before 30 years old) they were
refused contraception by the public health facility of their neighborhood.
NGOs noted that a family having ten children is not a surprise in the
shantytowns of metropolitan Buenos Aires.
5.      According to a 1999 United Nations Development Fund (UNDP) report
(Violencia de Genero), pregnancy among teens is on the rise in Argentina,
with about 15 percent of all mothers under the age of twenty. In absolute
terms, of the 700,000 annual births, about 100,000 mothers are less than
twenty years old. A small percent (3.3), but significant in social,
biological and psychological terms, is the proportion of babies born from
mothers between the ages of 10-14. Evidence also shows that precocious
pregnancies are more frequent among those with less schooling or living in
more precarious socioeconomic situations. Fathers of babies born from women
between the ages of 9-13 are on average ten years older than their mothers.
Information reported by the UNDP also shows that in 1997, in some
municipalities, there was a lack of paternal responsibility in half of all
children born that year. Absence of information and of access have resulted
in illegal abortions - the third cause of maternal mortality in the country.
Domestic violence and street violence are also commonly reported, becoming
one of the most important items in the agenda of local governments and
service NGOs. Individuals under the age of 21 are the victims in seventy six
percent of all sexual crimes, and in 87 percent of the cases, the victims are
women; but in about 90 percent of the cases, the victims were familiar with
the perpetrators. In 1997, of the 13,3376 telephone calls to Telefono Te
Ayudo (a telephone hot line) the highest proportion of violence was committed
against children, and while the majority of perpetrators were the father, in
20 percent of the cases, the mother was the perpetrator.
6.      Social Capital. Work conducted in the Bank demonstrates that a community
with a high level of social capital is more likely to organize itself,
-2 -



defining and pursuing common goals. Moreover, social capital is an a
important asset in any ongoing program or project requiring collective
action, as in the case of PROFAM.
7.      The 2000 Social Capital Survey in Argentina indicates that the diversity
and frequency of networking in the lowest income quintile is lower than in
the highest. For example, among those living in the poorest quintile, only
32.8 percent socialize with friends in contrast with almost the double that
in the highest quintile (59.5 percent). Whereas the 58.4 percent of residents
in the highest quintile households affirm their participation in activities
with their families, this is true for only 43 percent of residents in the
poorest quintile households. On the other hand, among the poor that
participate in any association, they are more likely to participate in
philanthropic organizations (33 percent) or religious organizations (48.8
percent) than those in the highest income quintile (33.8 percent and 23.7
percent respectively).
8.      These results indicate that generosity may be a characteristic of the
poor, and that there is a need for actions that mobilize and expand this
generous characteristic of their social capital by: (a) supporting civil
society organizations which are community-based and able to enrich family and
community life; and (b) supporting actions that bridge gaps between poor
families and community and service organizations. PROFAM will provide support
to both actions and test the hypothesis that the promotion of a more cohesive
and less segregated family life will positively impact the ability of
families to face challenges posed by poverty.
Government Strategy
9.      As observed in the CAS, Argentina faces a set of social problems that
are not easily resolved in the short run. While understanding its fiscal
constraints, the Government, in partnership with the provinces, has a strong
commitment to greater social justice. Recognizing the need to strengthen the
social safety net, reduce social risks, and stimulate community development,
it is the Government's intention to revamp many social programs, with
particular concerns to the indigent and children and to target vulnerable
groups through a gender perspective.
10.     The National Council on Women (Consejo Nacional de la Mujer, CNM) is a
politically autonomous, decentralized entity that pertains to the Jefetura de
Gabinete de Ministro de Poder Ejecutivo Nacional. The CNM was created in 1994
with the responsibility to ensure compliance with the Convention for the
elimination of al Forms of Discrimination against Women, ratified by Law
23.179. The objective of the CNM is to promote shared responsibility among
men and women within the concept of citizenship through the equitable
participation of women in social, political, economic, and cultural life of
Argentina, and it functions with the philosophy that a democracy without
equality is not democracy. CNM supports sectoral strategies to improve the
quality of life in the following areas: (a) health--to promote gender equity
and quality of health care; (b) education--to analyze gender associated with
school; (c) justice--coordination among government agencies to reduce
violence against women and ensure international conventions associated with
women's and children's rights are upheld; (d) legislation--to work with
parliament on the promotion of laws that strengthen gender equity; and (e)
communication--to develop information campaigns. CNM has also promoted the
establishment of a Forum on Civil Society, comprised of civil society
organizations, to create a space for the exchange of ideas, debate, and
promotion of proposals for the design and monitoring of public policies and
programs.
-3-



11.     Through the proposed Programa Equidad to finance small community-based
sub-projects, CNM has emphasized a strategy of working through civil society
organizations, but particularly through service NGOs. Indeed, it will follow
results from a recent evaluation of the Small Grants Program in Argentina
which indicated that, more than beneficiary organizations, service NGOs tend
to be more effective in their actions.
Project Objectives and Strategy
12.     The development objective of the Argentina Family Strengthening and
Social Capital Promotion Project - PROFAM, a Learning and Innovation Loan
(LIL), is to facilitate the mutual learning and piloting of local
governments, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and community-based
organizations (CBOs) to capture the potential human and economic capabilities
of poor families for promoting the equitable welfare of all its members by
contributing to the reduction of domestic violence, the fostering of
incentives for increased maternal and paternal responsibility, and the
introduction of the values of peaceful sociability among youth. PROFAM will
test an approach in the public sector that targets families as an integral
unit rather than as a client of segmented programs. Since there is limited
Operations experience with this type of innovative approach in Argentina and
the Bank, the project shall be implemented as a LIL.
13.     To achieve this objective, the project will: (a) support and monitor
different types of initiatives from service NGOs, community-based
organizations (CBOs) and local governments (Programa Equidad) to expand the
capabilities and promote cohesion among family members and solidarity among
poor families in the same community; (b) expand community social capital by
advancing opportunities for capacity building for the creation/ strengthening
of networks of civil society organizations; (c) facilitate the exchange and
dissemination of best practices on community interventions dedicated to
family development and equitable gender relations; (d) increase the
understanding about gender issues and rights of children among critical
stakeholder groups; and (e) promote the establishment an information system
which details the socio-economic characteristics, dynamics and structures of
families in order to contribute to the development and improved targeting of
social policies and programs.
Project Description
14.     The project will consist of three components:
Component 1- Family Strengthening - The strengthening of families through an
approach which recognizes them as agents rather than clients is important to
capture and support family capacity in order to work cohesively to face the
numerous challenges of poverty. Recognizing the characteristics of families
and communities, PROFAM will support different types of initiatives from
service NGOs, CSOs and local governments which are directed towards
supporting families, promoting more equitable gender relations and expanding
community social capital. This component is comprised of three sub-
components: (i) Programa Equidad - a demand-driven grant program for the
development of small sub-projects which promote and strengthen the capacity
of families to actively function within their community; (ii) Strengthening
of Associative Networks - to provide an integrated approach to addressing
problems of poverty and familial relations by promoting the collaboration and
solidarity of these organizations and are more aware of the need to avoid
prolonging clientelistic relations among the poor; and (iii) Strengthening of
Civil Society and Local Governmental Organizations - to collaborate and work
strategically in the design and management of programs that promote
integrated approaches to family strengthening and poverty alleviation.
Component 2 - Family and Community Awareness - The objective of this
- 4 -



component is to promote an awareness-raising and communication strategy at a
micro-level that seeks to directly impact the project target areas to further
enhance governmental-civil society-community-family relations. Specifically,
communication strategies will: (a) disseminate best practices on community
interventions dedicated to family development and equitable gender relation;
(b) promote an increased understanding about gender issues and rights of
children among critical stakeholder groups; and (c) encourage the
participation of families as protagonists in the definition of their
priorities and evaluation of social programs from which they benefit.
Component 3 - Project Management - This component will build upon the
existing project management capacity of the UEN within CNM as the entity
responsible for the coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the
project by providing technical assistance and capacity building of UEN staff
and consultants. Specifically, this component will support: (a) consultants
to support the technical and administrative implementation of the project;
(b) capacity building for UEN staff and consultants; (c) the implementation
of a monitoring and evaluation system, including the definition of the
baseline and performance indicators; (d) consultants for the project
auditing; and (e) equipment (computers, printers, software etc) necessary for
project implementation.
Project Costs and Financing
15.     Total estimated project costs are US$6.72 million with a proposed loan
of US$5.00 million equivalent, US$1.00 million government contribution, and
US$0.67 beneficiary contribution, with a front-end fee of US$0.05 million.
Project Coordination and Implementation
16.     The CNM will be responsible for all project implementation activities,
including accounting, disbursement, monitoring and evaluation, coordination,
and supervision. CNM will implement the project through the existing Unidad
Ejecutora (Project Implementing Unit - PIU) comprised of both technical and
administrative specialists and managed by an Executive Coordinator. Short-
term consultants will be hired for special tasks, when necessary. The
Operations Manual details all the procedures to be followed during
implementation. The project will be implemented in collaboration with the
Ministerio de Desarrollo Social y Medioambiente (Ministry of Social
Development and Environment) to ensure the coordination of PROFAM with other
similar initiatives targeted towards vulnerable groups.
17.     The principal activity under the PROFAM project will be the
implementation of a demand-driven small grants program - Programa Equidad -
for the development of small sub-projects which promote and strengthen the
capacity of families to actively function within their community. Potential
grant recipients will include community-based networks comprised of civil
society organizations, local municipalities and service NGOs that are
implementing innovative projects with objectives compatible to those of
PROFAM. Technical assistance for the preparation and implementation of the
sub-projects may be included in the proposal amount. Proposals will be
developed in accordance with procedures and criteria to be outlined in the
Operations Manual and will be evaluated and selected by an external committee
of specialists.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
18.     CNM will have primary responsibility for project supervision, monitoring
and evaluation. The ongoing Bank-financed Programa de Seguimiento de
Indicadores y Evaluaci6n de Proyectos Sociales(Monitoring of Indicators and
Evaluation of Social Projects Program - SIEMPRO) will also contribute to the
monitoring and evaluation of PROFAM impacts. PROFAM will pilot and learn from
both community-based and local government approaches to promoting gender
- 5 -



equity. Since there is limited operational experience with an integrated
approach to families focusing on both male and female perspectives, the LIL
would provide a learning opportunity for mainstreaming gender in future
operations. The monitoring and evaluation system is designed to analyze
different types of interventions and incentives to create models that can be
replicated in other areas and sectors. The Forum of Civil Society will also
play an important role in facilitating civil society participation in the
monitoring and evaluation process and disseminating lessons learned.
Environmental and Social Aspects
19.     Poverty and family organization are intrinsically linked because it is
at the family level and based on family interaction that individuals feel
economic constraints, allocate their time and make decisions on acquiring and
spending resources. Whether gender roles are too segregated or whether they
are interchangeable affects decision making with regard to these intra-family
allocations. A review of the Bank portfolio in Argentina suggested that
attention to family interaction framework and gender could improve the
quality and development impact of the Bank's investments in the sub-region.
PROFAM will foster community social capital by strengthening associative
networks through capacity-building and technical assistance and by financing
demand driven sub-projects which promote and strengthen the capacity of
families to actively function within their community. Decentralized
mechanisms and community-based organizations have comparatively more
advantages than the central government to address issues which affect family
cohesion such as substance abuse, family disintegration, domestic violence,
violence among young men, maternal health, teenage pregnancy, and/or
reproductive health. As a result, NGOs and other civil society organizations
will play an important role in the implementation of the project,
particularly in the design, management and monitoring of Programa Equidad
sub-projects.
Environmental assessment:        Environmental Category   [ I A   [ I B     [XI
C
No environmental impacts are anticipated from the proposed project
activities.
Contact Points
Ms. Maria Valeria Junho Pena
Co-Task Manager
1818 H. Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel: (202) 473-5763
Ms. Sandra Cesilini
Co- Task Manager
Edificio Bouchard
Bouchard 547, 3er Piso
1106 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Tel:   (54-11) 4316-9713
Aldo Isuani-Daniel Filmus (1998). Los Retos de la Salud Reproductive. La Argentina Que
Viene: analisis y propuestas para una sociedad en transicion. CEDES: Buenos Aires.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components, and certain
- 6 -



activities within a certain component, may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October
20, 2000.
-7 -



