Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21344-AR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
FAMILY STRENGTHENING AND SOCIAL CAPITAL PROMOTION PROJECT - PROFAM
October 30, 2001
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 27, 2000)
Currency Unit = $ Argentine Pesos
1$ = US$1.002
US$1 = $0.998
FISCAL YEAR
January I through December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBO            Community-Based Organization
CEPAL          Comisi6n Econ6mica para America Latina y el Caribe (Economic Commission of   l atin
America and the Caribbean)
CMU            Country Management Unit
CNM            Consejo Nacional de la Mujer (National Council of Women)
CQ             Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
FARAH          Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
GOA            Government of Argentina
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
LCR            Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LCSES          Latin America and Caribbean Region Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Sector Management Unit
LCSPR          Latin America and Caribbean Region Poverty Reduction and Economic Sector Management
Unit
LG             Local Government
LIL            Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MET            Memnorandum de Entendimiento Tecnico (Technical Memorandum of Understanding)
N.B.F.         Not Bank-Financed
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
PA             Participatory Appraisal
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PHRD           Policy and Human Resource Development (Japanese Trust Fund)
PIU            Project Implementation Unit (Unidad Ejecutora)
PMR            Project Management Reports
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
PROFAM         Family Strengthening and Social Capital Promotion Project
QCBS           Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
SA             Social Assessment
SIEMPRO        Programna de Seguimiento de Indicadores y Evaluacion de Proyectos Soc iles (Mor itorl r c.F
Indicators and Evaluation of Social Projects Program)
T .A           Technical Assistance
TOR            Terms of Reference
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
UNIFEM         United Nations Development Fund for Women
Vice President:     David de Ferranti
Country Director:    Myrna Alexander
Sector Directors:    Ernesto May/John Redwood
Sector Managers:    Maria Correia/Shelton Davis
Team Leaders:        Maria-Valdria Pena/Sandra Cesilini



Argentina
Family Strengthening and Social Capital Promotion Project - PROFAM
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ...................................................................2
1. Project development objective ...................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators ...................................................................2
B. Strategic Context ...................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................2
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project ..................................5
4. Learning and innovation expectations ...................................................................                                                      6
C. Project Description Summary ...................................................................7
1.  Project components ...................................................................7
2.  Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ............................................................. 8
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements ...................................................................9
D. Project Rationale ..................................................................                                                                                        10
E. Summary Project Analysis ..................................................................                                                                                10
1. Economic ..................................................................                                                                                 10
2. Financial ..................................................................                                                                                10
3. Technical ..................................................................                                                                                 11
4. Institutional ..................................................................                                                                             11
5. Environmental ..................................................................                                                                            12
6. Social .................................................................. 12
7. Safeguard Policies ..................................................................                                                                       15
F. Sustainability and Risks ..................................................................                                                                                15
1. Sustainability ..................................................................                                                                           15
2. Critical Risks ..................................................................                                                                           16
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ..................................................................                                                           16
G. Main Loan Conditions ..................................................................                                                                                     16
1. Effectiveness Conditions ..................................................................                                                                 16
H. Readiness for Implementation ..................................................................                                                                            17
1. Compliance with Bank Policies ..................................................................                                                                           17
- iii



Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Social Assessment
Annex 5.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table A 1.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table A2.     Procurement Plan
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 6.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 7.      Documents in Project File
Annex 8.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 9.      Country at a Glance
IBRD Map 29348, Map of Argentina
- iv -



ARGENTINA
FAMILY STRENGTHENING AND SOCIAL CAPITAL PROMOTION PROJECT - PROFAM
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Date: October 30, 2001                             Team Leaders: Maria-Valeria Pena/Sandra Cesilini
Country Director: Myrna Alexander                  Sector Directors: Ernesto May/John Redwood
Sector Managers: Maria Correia/Shelton Davis
Project ID: P070374                                Sector: BI - Institutional Development
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Gender
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   Y
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ ] Credit     [  Grant       [  Guarantee     [ ] Other[Specify]
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $5.0 million
Proposed Terms: LIBOR-Based Variable Rate Single Currency Loan
Grace period (years):          5                             Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee:                .75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:   1.0%
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign          Total
GOVERNMENT                                                  1.05           0.00            1.05
IBRD                                                        4.51           0.49            5.00
Community Participation                                     0.67           0.00            0.67
Total                                                       6.23           0.49            6.72
Borrower: Argentine Republic
Responsible agency: National Council of Women - Consejo Nacional de laMujer - CNM
Address:    AV. R.S. Penia 648, 7P. "A"; (1035)- Capital Federal
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Contact Person: Marisa Alfiz
Tel: 345-6402/6403/0683      Fax: 345-6402/6403/0683       E-mail: cnmgcnm.gov.ar
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
-  - FY-:: - .-   -   - 2002:--- - a   m - - - 2003'- -     2004-               2005
Annual         0.8                  1.9                 1.7                  0.6
Cumulative         0.8                 2.7                  4.4                 5.0
Project Implementation Period: January 2002 - December 2004
Expected Effectiveness Date: January 1, 2002     Expected Closing Date: June 30, 2005



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The development objective of the Argentina Family Strengthening and Social Capital Promotion Project -
PROFAM - is to test and monitor a social capital approach to address the vulnerability of the poor by
targeting families as comprehensive units and promoting gender equity.
To achieve this objective, the project will support, monitor, and learn from: (a) initiatives promoted by
local governments (LGs) and community-based organizations (CBOs) to enhance effective allocation of
resources and use of opportunities by vulnerable families through the promotion of gender equity and
cohesive family practices (Programa Equidad); (b) actions led by CBOs and LGs to foster more effective
use of community resources by strengthening linkages among neighboring families; (c) actions that
capture the potential of community social capital by advancing prospects for the creation and/or
strengthening of civil society organization networks; and (d) dissemination of best practices on
community interventions supporting family development and equitable gender relations.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators to be compared to a baseline study include: (a) improved awareness among
beneficiary families about the importance of gender equity and cohesive family practices as a means of
reducing their vulnerability; (b) improved awareness among beneficiary families participating in
Programa Equidad about children's emotional needs and how to respond to them; (c) decrease in
domestic violence episodes among beneficiary families participating in Programa Equidad; (d) improved
evidence of responsible parenthood among beneficiary families of Prograina Equidad through: (i)
increase in father's involvement in childcare and support; and (ii) decrease in teenage pregnancy; and (d)
increase in the proportion of CBOs and LGs connected in civil society networks.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20354                   Date of latest CAS discussion: June 27, 2000
In addition, the Board discussed the Progress Report on July 19, 2001 (R2001-0127; IFC R2001-0155).
The joint IBRD/IFC Argentina Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was discussed by the Executive
Directors on June 27, 2000. A new administration took office in December 1999 and is strongly
committed to improving the well being of the poorest families in the country. The LIL is consistent with
the CAS goal of supporting the design and implementation of human capital development and poverty
alleviation programs that address the specific needs ofparticular vulnerable groups and/or demonstrate
effective and innovative ways of delivery, through the provision of technical assistance (TA) and
investment lending. Based on the results of the Poverty Assessment (1999), that identified gender as an
important dimension of poverty, the CAS identifies family capacity development as a priority.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Argentina has experienced a strong average growth since the Convertibility Plan was launched in 1991.
The size of the economy doubled from 1990 to 1999. However, in 1995, the economy contracted after
the devaluation of the Mexican peso, and since 1998, the combined effects of the East-Asia crisis, the
devaluation of the Russian ruble and of the Brazilian real, and deterioration in commodities prices, have
caused a deceleration in growth. GDP declined by about 3.5 percent in 1999 and has stagnated in 2000.
Unemployment reached a high of 18 percent in 1996, fell to 12 percent with the recovery in 1997 but has
again increased to more than 15 percent. The results from the Social Capital Survey carried out in 2000
show the presence of at least one unemployed person in 52 percent of the poorest households in contrast
to only 11 percent in the highest income quintile households. Although many social indicators have
improved in the past ten years, poverty levels have remained high. The Bank's latest estimates (see the
- 2 -



1999 Poverty Assessment) put poverty at about 30 percent of the populations, with more than 40 percent
of Argentina's children in families below the poverty line.
Family and Poverty. Poverty and family organization are intrinsically linked. Decisions on the allocation
of time, finances, and use of resources and opportunities are made at the family level and they are based
on the organization of gender and generational roles. Variations in gender roles, including segregated or
interchangeable and balanced roles will affect reproductive patterns, acquisition of human capital,
opportunities and timing of entrance in the labor market, and income earning potential. One of the most
conspicuous consequences of the association between poverty and segregation of gender roles in
Argentina has been the deterioration offamily cohesion and its ability to mobilize and make use of
resources and opportunities.
As indicated in the Poverty Assessment (Poor People in a Rich Country, 1999), the poor in Argentina
have the greatest family obligations and dependents. In urban areas, the poor have significantly larger
families. They also have younger families with high dependency ratio and unemployment rates that are
twice the ratio of non- poor. The 1997 household survey shows that 52 percent of Argentinean families
have children under the age of fourteen, with one-fourth of families in the poorest quintile having three or
more children under the age of fourteen. Results from the recent Social Capital Survey (2000) have
confirmed this trend by also showing that, among the households in the lowest income quintile, 32
percent of residents were less than 12 years, whereas among those in the highest quintile, this proportion
dropped to 8 percent.
While the overall fertility rate in Argentina is low in comparison to other countries in the region, this rate
varies widely across socioeconomic groups. Residents in rural and marginal urban areas are at a
disadvantage in terms of access to reproductive services and informnation. For example, women consulted
for the Social Assessment (SA) during project preparation were unaware of the linkage between multiple
pregnancies, poverty, and their poor health status-to be either pregnant or nursing was very often
accepted as destiny. The SA also reveals that many women, despite having many children at a very
young age (sometimes five children before the age of 30), contraception was refused by their
neighborhood public health facility. It is noteworthy that the standard health care package covered by
quasi-public health insurance providers does not include contraception. Non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) consulted during the SA note that it is not unusual to find women with ten children in the
shantytowns of metropolitan Buenos Aires.
According to the 1999 United Nations Development Fund (UNDP) report ( Violencia de Genero in
Argentina), pregnancy among teens is on the rise with about 15 percent of all mothers under the age of
twenty. In absolute terms, of the 700,000 annual births, about 100,000 mothers are less than twenty years
old. A small proportion (3.3 percent) consists of children born from mothers between the ages of 10-14.
This is significant in social, biological and psychological terms. Evidence also shows that precocious
pregnancies are more frequent among those with less schooling or living in more precarious
socioeconomic conditions. There is also an apparent lack of paternal responsibility in the case of half of
all children born that year.
The lack of information and access to contraception alternatives has resulted in a high number of illegal
abortions - the third cause of maternal mortality in the country. Domestic violence and street violence are
also commonly reported and rapidly becoming one of the most important issues on the agenda of local
governments and CBOs. Individuals under the age of 21 are the victims in 76 percent of all sexual
crimes, and in 87 percent of the cases, the victims are women. In about 90 percent of the cases, the
victims were familiar with the perpetrators. In 1997, of the 133,376 telephone calls to a hot line (Telefono
Te Ayudo), the highest proportion related to violence committed against children, and while the majority
of perpetrators were the father, in 20 percent of the cases, the mother was the perpetrator.
Social Capital. Several research studies conducted by the Bank demonstrate that communities with
higher levels of social capital are more likely to organize, and define and pursue common goals. The
- 3-



Social Capital Survey in Argentina (2000) indicates that the diversity and frequency of networking in the
lowest income quintile is in general lower than in the highest. For example, among those living in the
poorest quintile, only about 33 percent socialize with friends in contrast to almost 60 percent in the
highest quintile, nearly double the percentage. About 58 percent of residents in the highest quintile
households participate in activities with their families. This percentage drops to 43 percent in the poorest
quintile. However, among those who participate, the lowest quintile is as likely as the highest to be
involved in philanthropic organizations (33 percent and 34 percent respectively). These results indicate
that poverty does not signify a lack of generosity.
Government Strategy
Argentina faces a set of social problems that are not easily resolved in the short run. The Government of
Argentina (GOA), in partnership with the provinces, has shown a strong commitment to greater social
justice notwithstanding fiscal constraints. GOA recognizes the need to strengthen the social safety net,
reduce social risks, and stimulate community development. It thus has in place a variety of social
programs targeting the poor, many of which are supported by the World Bank and the Inter-American
Development Bank. Many of these programs are well targeted and some have a high degree of success in
reaching the right beneficiaries; others have never been evaluated and there is a general impression that
there are too main programs, duplication, and heavy administrative costs. Moreover, as studied in the
recent Poverty Assessment, coverage is low-only 25 percent of the poor have access to public
programs-and funding of these programs is counter-cyclical-funding gets cut just when needs are the
greatest when an economic crisis hits. Increasingly, there is a concern that social programs in and of
themselves are not sufficient to build capacity among the poor and to promote collective and individual
action to improve the wellbeing of the poor. Thus, there is still a very large agenda in the social sector
and among its priorities, Government intends to revamp many social programs, with improved targeting,
service delivery, and the incorporation of particular concerns, as recognized in the CAS, to indigent,
children, and vulnerable groups through a gender perspective.
Both the World Bank and the Government are conscious that gender dimensions need to have a higher
profile in development programs and are making a particular effort to incorporate gender more explicitly
the Bank-financed projects. A PHRD grant, for instance, is supporting actions to improve Government
capacity to plan and implement public policies and programs so they respond to the differentiated needs
and priorities of both men and women. In addition, the Bank's technical assistance (TA) facility on
gender is providing ongoing follow-up to Bank projects during preparation and implementation. Based
on experience from the Latin America and Caribbean Region, this lack of follow-up in projects is one of
the key constraints for successfully integrating gender into operations.
More broadly, the Government's main instrument for addressing the gender dimensions of poverty and
social policy is the National Council of Women (Consejo Nacional de la Mujer, CNM). CNM is a
politically autonomous, decentralized entity that falls under the Chief of Cabinet (Jefetura de Gabinete de
Ministro de Poder Ejecutivo Nacional). CNM was created in 1994 with the responsibility to ensure
compliance with the Convention for the elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women, under
Law 23.179.
CNM has adopted a philosophy that democracy without equality is not democracy. It has also adopted a
gender perspective to address disparities and/or inequities between men and women, rather than only
focus on women's issues. The policies it has adopted have the common aim of promoting shared
responsibility among men and women within the concept of citizenship. In practical terms, this has meant
a response to poverty based on a strategy that emphasizes the inclusion of men in household chores and
child care, the expansion of opportunities for women in the labor market and public decision-making and,
for the couple, more conscious reproductive and health choices.
CNM supports sectoral strategies to improve the quality of life in the following areas: (a) health-to
promote gender equity and quality of health care including responsible reproductive decision-making; (b)
-4 -



education-to promote equal opportunities for boys and girls; (c)justice-to coordinate actions among
government agencies to reduce violence against women and ensure international conventions associated
with women's and children's rights are upheld; (d) legislation-to work with parliament on the
promotion of laws that strengthen gender equity; and (e) communication-to develop information
campaigns.
CNM has also promoted the establishment of a Forum on Civil Society, comprised of civil society
organizations, to create a space for the exchange of ideas, debate, and promotion of proposals for the
design and monitoring of public policies and programs. In addition, CNM recently began implementation
of the National Program for Women (Programa Federal de la Mujer), financed by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB), which will support the establishment of decentralized Provincial Offices of the
Program for Women (Areas de Mujer Provinciales).
Addressing the gender dimensions of poverty and social policy in the present context of rising poverty,
unemployment, violence and social exclusion in Argentina presents a challenge. The Government's goal
is to reduce vulnerability by strengthening family cohesion, solidarity between male and female family
members, and capacity for conscious socio-economic and reproductive decision making. Deepening
social capital to be able to undertake collective action is an imperative. Given the complexity and
newness of these issues in Argentina, their sensitivity and the lack of a track record in such areas, the
Government has wisely adopted a cautious stance and intends to proceed with a pilot program relying on
local institutions and building upon the best practices and leading cases that do now exist and/or can be
developed. An essential ingredient in this strategy is to promote activities that can have a great impact in
the short run and involve groups keen on accepting changes. Thus, the main features of the strategy
entail: (a) capturing and fostering the capacity of LGs and CBOs to reduce the vulnerability of poor
families by promoting their cohesiveness; (b) supporting actions which deal with the family as an integral
entity rather than utilizing a specific sector approach; and (c) advocating a role for the public sector that
stresses the linkages between poverty and gender segregation. A fundamental part of the strategy is to
move away from client-oriented solutions that may foster dependency among the poor and toward
innovative interventions that foster the active participation of families themselves in the design and
implementation of such programs.
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project:
Social Capital Approach. The first strategic choice was to build on the existence of community social
capital rather than existing centralized government institutions. Intensive monitoring and evaluation of
the LIL will focus on the most effective grassroots arrangements for family development with an
emphasis on the creation of networks of civil society organizations. The LIL will provide opportunities to
learn from the implementation of a community-based perspective by CNM with the participation of
beneficiaries. The LIL will also provide important lessons on whether and under what conditions
empowered community groups can play a central role in the promotion of equitable gender and family
roles and anti-violence interventions. The successful implementation of this LIL will make a substantial
contribution to the design of more effective projects that improve the well being of poor men and women
by: (a) promoting family development; (b) addressing norms, expectations, and values that lead to
passivity, discrimination, and often violence; and (c) avoiding the continuation of clientelistic relations
among the poor.
This project will provide lessons from three different models: (a) promoting change within local
governments in their relationship with families, particularly on how gender and generational roles are
defined; (b) providing incentives to different forms of association between local governments, service
NGOs, community-based organizations (CBOs), and families; and (c) building partnerships among
families. The implementation of these different types of activities in different regions and communities
will provide important lessons on how to target comprehensive family programs.
-5-



Promoting a Comprehensive Approach to Families. The second strategic choice by GOA was whether to
support sectoral interventions targeted to families (after-school programs, nutrition for mothers, micro-
credit for adults, etc.) or whether to support an approach which would strengthen and empower a family
as an entity, capturing its own resources and emotional capacities. By choosing to test a comprehensive
approach to family development, the project will provide lessons on: (a) what are the most effective
means to recuperate damaged family relationships; (b) what is the potential of poor families to reduce
some of their vulnerability either through cooperation among family members and/or cooperation among
families in the same neighborhood (such as child care and division of domestic and reproductive chores);
and (c) what is the extent to which poor families are available to cooperate with other poor families to
promote their own development.
Promoting Gender Equity and Changing Gender Stereotypes. The third strategic choice by GOA was
whether to design the LIL addressing women's issues or whether to learn from a gender approach which
includes male and female needs and perspectives. Indeed, given that women and men's social standing
emerges from gender roles, socialization, and expectations, both male and female roles will be addressed
in PROFAM. The proposed project will apply a "true" gender perspective in its approach and take into
account the impacts of gender relationships on the family by addressing the consequences of gender roles
on both sexes and considering the linkages between the genders rather than focusing solely on women.
This project will promote awareness and leadership about the value of equitable relationships between
men and women and the transmission of new ideas and successful experiences that can be replicated
throughout urban and rural Argentina. It will also promote awareness on the relationship between
violence, vulnerability, and gender segregation.
A final decision was whether to implement the LIL through an agency specializing in gender and
development, such as CNM, or to learn from an agency specializing in poverty alleviation. CNM was
chosen given its consideration of gender segregation as an important dimension of poverty, an unusual
approach in organizations specializing in social policy. CNM was also selected for its interest in working
with grassroots organizations, rather than with a centralized approach. This LIL will allow the
government to test an approach to social policy focused on an associative perspective (gender!
family/community/services) rather than solely on service delivery.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
[x] Economic  [x] Technical  [x] Social         [x] Participation
[ ] Financial  [x] Institutional [ ] Environmental  [x] Other
(a) Economic. The LIL is expected to provide important lessons on how to identify and overcome
obstacles that segregated gender roles pose to reducing the vulnerability of poor families. These obstacles
may be overcome with actions such as providing access to reproductive information and responsibilities
to women and men or promoting a more balanced division of intra-household work, thus improving
women's opportunities in the labor market.
(b) Technical. The LIL will: (i) develop a participatory monitoring and evaluation system in which
beneficiary's concerns are included and considered as indicators of the project's impacts and
performance; (ii) assess the impact of programs with a gender equity approach; and (iii) develop the
capacity of multiple actors to understand the interaction between family and gender issues (particularly
the role of socialization on the development of gender roles) and to plan equitable gender policies with
equitable gender outcomes, as part of development policies. The LIL will initiate a mutual learning
process on family and community cohesiveness through Programa Equidad. This program is the first to
be developed within Argentina and the lessons learned will potentially benefit other interventions
designed to reduce violence among men and women and/or to foster a stronger sense of family and
community at the local levels.
(c) Social. The LIL will provide opportunities to leam about: (i) how to capture inherent, but often
hidden family resources in order to promote the well being of all family members; (ii) the benefits of
-6 -



cooperation among grassroots organizations and between males and females to reduce the hardship of
poverty; and (iii) how to support heads of family affected by the high incidence of unemployment to
adapt to new roles within the family.
(d) Participation. The LIL incorporates a participatory monitoring and evaluation process through the
involvement of civil society and beneficiary families in the review and discussion of lessons learned from
the project activities. The expectations are to learn: (i) how to develop mechanisms for informed
stakeholder participation in the monitoring and evaluation processes; (ii) how to foster families'
involvement within the communities where they live; and (iii) what are the most effective means of
strengthening family groups.
(e) Institutional. The LIL will also test the advantages and disadvantages of institution-based (local
government) and civic-based (CBOs and NGOs) approaches to address family development and gender
equity. It will work through existing institutions to provide inforrnation on: (i) how to develop the
capacity of local government to understand and apply a gender approach to public and social policies; (ii)
how to provide incentives to the civil sector to promote more equitable human resources, recruitment, and
benefits policies for both men and women, for instance, recognizing women's rights to promotion, but
also the paternal responsibilities and rights of men; and (iii) how to introduce gender concerns and criteria
within social programs addressed to the poor.
(g) Replicability. Since a family strengthening and social capital LIL with a gender approach to poverty
alleviation will be the first to be implemented within the region, the lessons learned will help decide
whether: (i) it could be expanded to a greater number of beneficiaries; (ii) whether other sectoral projects
could take the same gender approach; or (iii) whether it could in its entirety or in its components, be
replicated in other countries.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (See Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for the detailed costs.)
The main component of the project is the Programa Equidad to facilitate equitable and cooperative
family and community life. This program is a demand-driven mechanism that will provide grants for
subprojects implemented by LGs and CBOs that address issues of reproductive health, anti-violence, civic
rights, cooperation within and among families, and community development aimed to reduce the degree
of vulnerability of poor families.
Typical subprojects to be considered may include programs such as those visited during the Social
Assessment for the project including: (a) domestic violence interventions where children are supported
and both men and women are targeted (after time and intense work, the men can function as facilitators of
future interventions with other men); (b) placement of children from dysfunctional and violent parents in
temporary, community-based "host" families while there are interventions focusing on strengthening the
child's original family - a strategy which has positive results and is proven to be more cost-effective than
larger institutional homes; (c) an after-school program that supports children with learning disabilities by
involving both parents; or (d) a local government-sponsored health center that offers an after-school
program to facilitate discussion groups among men and women about reproductive health roles and
responsibilities and responsible parenthood.
-7-



The project's other components will address gender awareness more generally, and provide support for
project implementation and institution building for CNM, including the baseline study, monitoring and
evaluation.
indicdativ  %Of        an-       %of
Component 'eto Iot                                      Total   financing    Bank-
1. Family Strengthening    Capacity Building       4.27   63.9        3.57     83
a. Programa Equidad
b. Social Capital
Promotion
2. Gender and            Communication              1.20   18.2       0.83     69
Community Awareness
3. Institutional         Institutional              1.20   16.9       0.55     50
Development           Development
Total Project Costs*                          6.67   99.0        4.95     75
Front-end fee                           0.05    1.0        0.05
Total Financing Required                           6.72  100.0        5.00
* Includes Physical and Price Contingencies
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
2.1 Institutional Arrangements:
The institutional arrangements are designed to build upon the existing capacity and experience of CNM,
which will be responsible for project implementation through existing local government and community
based organizations. The project will be implemented in collaboration with the Ministry of Social
Development and Environment (Ministerio de Desarrollo Socialy Medioambiente) to ensure the
coordination of PROFAM with other similar initiatives targeted towards vulnerable groups.
At the same time CNM will coordinate the proposed project with other programs under its responsibility,
namely, a $15.0 million project financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) - the National
Program for Women (Program Federal de la Mujer) and a Policy and Human Resource Development
(PHRD) Grant from the World Bank for a Gender Technical Assistance Capacity Building Initiative, in
addition to collaborating on other donor funded programs.
2.2 Implementation Arrangements:
CNM will be responsible for all project implementation activities, including accounting, disbursement,
monitoring and evaluation, coordination, and supervision. CNM will implement the project through the
existing Project Implementing Unit (PIU) (Unidad Ejecutora) comprised of both technical and
administrative specialists and managed by an Executive Coordinator, who will manage both the IDB
project and the proposed LIL. At present the PIU has both administrative and technical groups. The
administrative group is staffed by an accountant and one assistant and deals with procurement, financial
management, and other administrative aspects. The head of this group, who will serve as the
Administrative Chief, is a former consultant to the IDB and is familiar with procurement procedures.
Under the project, a second technical person and an administrative assistant would be hired to work
within the PIU administrative group with primary responsibility over the implementation of the LIL.
Short-term consultants will be hired for special tasks, when necessary.
The principal activity under the PROFAM project will be the implementation of a demand-driven small
grants program - Programa Equidad. Potential grant recipients will include community-based networks
-8-



comprised of civil society organizations, local government, and CBOs that are implementing innovative
projects, which are compatible with the objectives of PROFAM. Technical assistance for the preparation
and implementation of subprojects may be included in the proposal amount. Proposals will be developed
in accordance with procedures and criteria outlined in the Operations Manual and will be evaluated and
selected by an external committee of specialists (See Annex 2 for more details).
CNM's implementation responsibilities include: (a) ensuring that appropriate methods are identified and
utilized to target and inform key stakeholders throughout the project; (b) facilitating the definition of
mechanisms that ensure sustained accountability, communication, and monitoring with the beneficiary
communities and families by recipient/implementing organizations and networks; (c) emphasizing the
inclusion of families in the planning, control and oversight of subprojects; (d) overseeing the quality of
the implementation of subprojects and other project activities; (e) monitoring and evaluating the project's
performance; and (f) developing and measuring impact indicators.
Specific roles and responsibilities for all entities involved in the implementation of the project, including
institutional structure, are included in the Operations Manual. The project will be implemented over a
period of three years (January 2002 to December 2004).
Procurement. Disbursement, and Financial Management
Procurement, disbursement, and financial management arrangements have been discussed in detail with
CNM. The Procurement Specialist in the Argentina Resident Mission carried out an overall assessment
of the procurement capacity of CNM and a procurement action plan was agreed upon with CNM. Annex
5 contains a description of the procurement and disbursement arrangements covering goods, consultant
services and training, and Programa Equidad grants. A Bank-certified Financial Management Specialist
also carried out an assessment of CNM during project preparation. Based on this assessment, CNM
satisfies the basic minimum financial management requirements; however it is not currently eligible for
Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursements. It was agreed that traditional disbursement
procedures would be used for a transition period of six months after project effectiveness. These
arrangements are reflected in the Operations Manual.
Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements.
The project will maintain project accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices acceptable to
the Bank, as required by the Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH). CNM
will have the records and accounts of the project for each fiscal year audited, with a separate opinion with
respect to the Statements of Expenditures and the Special Account, by independent and qualified auditors
acceptable to the Bank. A national auditor will audit all project operations (on an annual basis), as
described in the Operations Manual. The requirements for accounting, financial reporting, and auditing
are described in detail in Annex 5 and the Operations Manual.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
An effective monitoring and evaluation system (M&E) is crucial to the success of this LIL since it will
allow the testing and improvement of service delivery approaches based on lessons learned. The system
should be established at the outset of project implementation. The use of participatory techniques in
monitoring and evaluation will be encouraged through the inclusion of project beneficiaries' own
evaluation. The adoption of key indicators will enhance data comparability and information sharing
among regions and provinces.
The M&E system will allow testing through control groups in comparison with a baseline: (a) LGs versus
CBOs; (b) local-based approaches versus centralized approaches; (c) family approach versus sectoral
approach; and (d) gender equity approach versus approaches that accept traditional roles. The monitoring
and evaluation system will be systematically documented to enhance the learning process within CNM
and among other Ministries and civil society organizations, and to exchange experiences with other
-9-



projects in Argentina and in other countries. Civil society will participate through the Forum of Civil
Society and other organizations to be consulted during projecf implementation. The monitoring and
evaluation system follows the logical framework of the LIL, assessing component performance, outputs,
and impacts.
CNM, with support from its provincial offices, will have primary responsibility for project supervision,
monitoring and evaluation. On an annual basis, beginning in 2002, CNM will prepare a Project
Implementation Report covering project implementation activities and monitoring and evaluation
indicators during the previous year as well as an Annual Operating Plan for the following year. The
ongoing Bank-financed Monitoring of Indicators and Evaluation of Social Projects Program (Programa
de Seguimiento de Indicadores y Evaluacion de Proyectos Sociales, SIEMPRO) will also contribute to the
monitoring and evaluation of PROFAM impacts.
Baseline. The baseline study will include gender-desegregated data and it will be developed by
integrating the results of studies to be carried out under the project which include families, LGs and
CBOs. A survey carried out by CNM, in collaboration with the Bank on the reproductive issues of poor
rural families, will complement the baseline.
Reports. The monitoring and evaluation system includes three types of reports: (a) Operational Reports
of each component to be prepared according to the performance monitoring indicators timetable; (b) a
Mid-term Evaluation Report incorporating beneficiaries' views to be prepared at the end of the first year
and disseminated to civil society; and (c) an Impact Evaluation Report to be produced at the end of the
third year consisting of results from the beneficiary assessment and main lessons learned to be
disseminated among federal and local governments and civil society.
D: Project Rationale:
This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.
E: Summary Project Analysis (only as applicable to this LIL)
1. Economic
The project has not been subjected to a conventional economic rate of return analysis since its immediate
objectives and outputs are either primarily institutional or involve changes in behavior. However, the
project will generate the following non-quantifiable economic benefits: (a) mobilization of capacities
within families and among families to face the challenges of poverty; (b) greater awareness about the role
of gender equity in promoting better access to human capital and other resources and opportunities; and
(c) enhanced institutional capacity to meet economic needs of male and female beneficiaries. There is a
chance, too, that the project could generate quantifiable benefits in terms of opportunities for women in
particular to generate incomes as one of the possible outcomes of shifts in traditional gender roles. In
addition, as part of the LIL's monitoring and evaluation system, the different approaches and activities
incorporated into the project will be assessed including regarding costs and returns.
2. Financial
[ ] Summarize issues below (e.g., cost recovery, tariff policies, financial controls and accountability)
[]To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified) [x] None
PROFAM is a pilot project and cost recovery is not a project objective. However, fiscal sustainability is
an important consideration in the design of this LIL as is testing the level of administrative costs for
implementation. Although CNM has committed itself to promoting equal opportunities among men.and
women and public policies with a gender perspective, at present, the current level of public expenditure
on gender initiatives is low. The planned investments in the project, such as the development of
informational materials, have low recurrent cost implications.
- 10-



CNM will monitor and assess the costs of Programa Equidad. In addition, the project will involve local
communities and organizations in the financing and maintenance of subprojects under this program. For
instance, successful proposals to the Programa Equidad will include a 20 percent minimum contribution
on the part of the beneficiaries.
3. Technical
Traditionally, social programs have addressed poor families through separate sectoral initiatives
frequently treating the family members as individual clients of early childhood, primary or secondary
education, nutrition, scholarship programs, education, HIV programs, etc. The proposed LIL will test the
introduction of diverse mechanisms at different levels for operationalizing a comprehensive, integrated
family approach in development projects. The LIL will carry out actions to promote changes in behavior
in three levels and evaluate the results through participatory monitoring and evaluation. These
instruments were identified to maximize effective actions in the short-run and provide a range of piloting
from a communications strategy to a small grants program. The different levels include: (a) institutional -
the strengthening of the capacity of the regional agencies of CNM to incorporate its gender equity
mandate through seminars and workshops; (b) conimunity-basedpartnerships - support to capacity
building and technical assistance for NGOs and CBOs and grants in the Programna Equidad; and (c) civic
incentives - to transmit new ideas and successful experiences to a wide audience.
4. Institutional
4.1 Executing agencies:
CNM has demonstrated capacity for project execution. Currently, CNM is involved in several different
projects and programs with international financing. CNM is executing a $15.0 million loan from the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to improve the development, monitoring, and evaluation of
public policies and programs, the National Program for Women (Programa Federal de la Mujer) through
which five new provincial offices are being established. They are also executing (but not administering)
the PHRD for Gender Technical Assistance Capacity Building Initiative, a project on gender in the health
sector financed by the Economic Commission on Latin America and the Caribbean (Comision Econ6mica
de Latina Americay el Caribe) and a project to strengthen communication strategies (United Nations
Development Fund for Women, UNIFEM).
4.2 Project management:
Overall, CNM has both the technical and administrative capacity to manage the PROFAM project. When
necessary, consultants would be hired for specific tasks. CNM is an autonomous organization which
seeks to decentralize its community interventions to the grassroots level, maintaining only the
administrative functions and those responsibilities related to the articulation of social policy formulation
at the central level. Both the IDB-financed project and the World Bank-supported PHRD have
contributed to the institutional capacity of CNM.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement will be the responsibility of the PIU within CNM. The procurement assessment carried out
during preparation indicated that the PIU, specifically the Administrative Chief, has experience and
knowledge, although some limitations were identified in procurement procedures. For instance, little
experience exists in community-based procurement, which represents the majority of the LIL's
procurement activities and where procurement supervision and monitoring will be key for successful
implementation of the subprojects. To minimize the risk related to the lack of procurement experience
with World Bank projects, it was agreed that as part of the Action Plan, the Administrative Chief will
enhance her knowledge with training on selection of consultants for World Bank projects. Due to the
small amount of procurement required for the LIL, an experienced consultant will be retained for
- 11 -



procurement assistance, specifically for LIL activities, when required. In addition, an independent
consultant will conduct audits on one out of every five subprojects annually.
4.4 Financial management issues:
An assessment of the project's accounting system, internal controls, planning, budgeting, and financial
reporting system was conducted during project preparation. The PIU satisfies the Bank's minimum
financial management requirements (4B certification). Nevertheless, the project is not currently eligible
for Project Management Report (PMR) based disbursements. It was agreed that traditional disbursement
procedures would be used for a transition period of six months after project effectiveness.
5. Environmental                   Environmental category:     C
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
No civil works will be financed under the project. Proposed subprojects to be financed under the
Progrania Equidad will be relatively small in nature and are intended for capacity building and family
strengthening activities.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?  Not Applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA  Not Applicable.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed EMP? Describe mechanisms of consultation that were
used and which groups were consulted?           Not Applicable.
5.6 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?  Not Applicable.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues arising out of project objectives, and the project's planned social
development outcomes.
A Social Assessment was carried out during preparation with a desk review of relevant reports, fieldwork,
and consultations with task managers, NGOs, and community-based groups. The key social issues in this
LIL include the link between poverty and family organization, gender roles, violence, and social capital.
The main findings of the Social Assessment indicate that different types of channels need to be used to
promote change in gender-based social expectations, such as the media, education, families, and
communities. The LIL will work through community and local level organizations to address issues that
require changes in attitudes, such as substance abuse, family relations, violence, maternal health, and
reproductive health. The project will act through community social capital and target both males and
females.
Family and Poverty. Although Argentina is a relatively rich country, it also has a high level of poverty,
affecting about 30 percent of its population. In absolute terms, of the 32 million people living in urban
areas in Argentina in 1998, about 9 million were living in poverty and about 2 million in extreme poverty.
The poorest households in Argentina tend to be younger, have more children and have larger dependency
ratios (see Table). Since poor families are larger and younger than average, children are more prone to be
poor than adults. In 1998, around 45 percent of all children (aged 0-14) were living in poverty compared
to 25 percent of adults. Only 13 percent of those 65 years old and older were found to be below the
poverty line. Large family sizes are the result of much higher fertility rates among poor women, a factor
that tends to perpetuate poverty. Though population growth in Argentina is relatively low, 1.3 percent per
year, fertility rates are higher for the poor families.
- 12 -



Comrnarison of Indicators for Lower and Higher Income Families
Income levels         Average age of         Average size of        Fertility Rate
household              household
Lower quintile               25 years              5.1 people           4.2 per 1,000
Upper quintile               41 years              3.1 people           1.3 per 1,000
Poor families face many obstacles to overcoming poverty. They live in poor housing areas, which often
lack water and sanitation services, access to roads and other public amenities. Only about 25 percent of
poor families receive any form of direct public assistance. Another problem is that children of poor
families are more likely to drop out of school for various reasons, mainly the need to work. Poor families
frequently suffer from bad health, lack of education, malnutrition and other factors such as violence.
Unemployment has risen and the rates are higher among the poor and very poor than for the general
population. In a recent survey among the urban poor, the lack of a steady job and the problems of
violence and insecurity were considered the most important issues. This situation often leads to problems
of alcohol and drug abuse, and an increase in domestic and community crime and violence. It also may
lead to a shift in gender roles as more poor women join the labor force and sometimes earn more than
their partners. This shift has been a source of tension within the family and it appears to be increasing.
Youth also stand out as a particularly vulnerable population. Poor youth report a high incidence of drug
and alcohol abuse and a general feeling of despair as they face a future characterized by insecurity,
unemployment, and violence.
Gender, fanmilies, and poverty. Within the family unit, one of the most important changes registered in
recent decades is the changing role of women. Women, particularly poor women, have increasingly
entered the labor force as a strategy to maintain household income. According to a recent survey,'
women represent 39 percent of the labor force in Argentina. However, women entering the labor market
usually are only employed part time, on a temporary basis or in conditions demanding long hours at low
pay. Between 20 and 30 percent of women are employed in domestic service or in the informal sector.
Gender bias prevails because on average, women earn only 71 percent of what their male counterparts
earn in similar jobs. Differences are higher at professional levels where women's earnings are only 66
percent of men's and they have fewer opportunities to occupy managerial positions. In recent years,
unemployment has particularly affected male workers with a higher impact on young uneducated men.
Despite changes in the labor market, changes in the domestic roles within households have been slower.
In Buenos Aires for instance, between 1980-1994, the proportion of families with only one income earner
decreased from 68 to 52 percent while the families with two income earners increased from 23 to 38
percent in the same period. Nevertheless, the main burden of domestic chores still lies on women.
Higher income women can hire domestic help, but poorer women have to reconcile their working hours
with domestic work. According to a recent study,2 female-headed households face difficulties that
increase the probability of remaining poor. Usually, these households have only one source of income
and most of the resources are spent on food and services. The probability of children from these female-
headed households being poor is 25 percent higher than in a household headed by a man, thus continuing
a vicious cycle of poverty.
Violence. Domestic violence mainly affects women and the majority is domestic workers. In 30 percent
of the cases, unemployed men are responsible for violence, indicating that frustration and economic
uncertainty spur violence. In addition, social patterns contribute to domestic violence such as aggressive
models, "macho" attitudes, and lack of education as well as social tolerance towards violent behavior.
' Rodriguez et al, 1997 Encuesta Permanente de Hogares de 1,996
2 Geldstein Rosa, 1997. Mujeresjefas de hogar: familia, pobreza y gdnero.
- 13 -



Institutional and legal issues and gender. Argentina competes favorably in social indicators such as
literacy, infant and maternal mortality, etc. However, there are some institutional and legal drawbacks
affecting Argentinean families. The most important one is the lack of an official public program on
family planning. While a new Reproductive Law was recently approved in the City of Buenos Aires, it
has not been approved in all of the Provinces. Adolescents, the poor population and rural inhabitants are
the most affected by the lack of access to family planning services and information. Teen-age pregnancy
remains a problem in Argentina, particularly among girls with low levels of education.
Social security coverage also seems to be gender biased due to lower female participation in the labor
force, higher levels of dependency and greater participation of working women in the informal sector.
Therefore, few women have pensions or other forms of social support and are more prone to be poor
during old age. This situation is expected to change accordingly with changes in occupation patterns and
the increase in the number of more educated women.
Recent legislation intended to eliminate gender discrimination and the creation of institutions such as
CNM and the Child and Family Council, as well as various public programs intended to support
vulnerable populations and address poverty would help to reverse the above-mentioned situation. The
PROFAM LIL fits within this new framework.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are the key stakeholders participating in the project?
From the initial identification of PROFAM and throughout project preparation, CNM has been carrying
out an ongoing, open consultation process with potential beneficiaries in order to learn from existing
experiences of community-based family interventions. The preparation team carried out a consultation
process with community-based organizations and local governments working on issues related to the
strengthening of families, reproductive health, violence, and education. Important lessons were drawn
from this experience including targeted beneficiaries, eligibility, project activities, potential demand for
Programa Equidad, costs of subprojects and appropriate institutional mechanisms. These lessons and
experiences were incorporated into the project's design and Operations Manual, specifically about the
implementation of Programa Equidad.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
A principal objective of the project is to pilot and strengthen innovative approaches to family
interventions by LGs and CBOs. A second objective is to promote the existing social capital within poor
communities. Thus, by its nature, the project is dependent on the collaboration with civil society
organizations.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The LIL is designed to empower community organizations and create ownership for the project by giving
full responsibility to the beneficiaries. As mentioned above through the Programa Equidad, PROFAM
will finance initiatives that promote responsibility and participation of all beneficiaries from decision-
making to execution to monitoring. In addition, Progrania Equidad includes a minimum beneficiary
contribution of 20 percent. Technical assistance and training will be provided as necessary and priority
will be given to subproject proposals that include a participatory approach and seek to improve gender
equity. This learning experience will also help community networks to develop their own capacity to
ensure sustainability.
- 14 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
PROFAM is a social development project and the expected social development outcomes are directly
linked to the overall project objectives. Refer to Section C.3, Monitoring and evaluation arrangements,
for further details on proposed mechanisms.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)                              No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                                No
Forestry (OP 4.36)                                              No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   No
X  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    Yes
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30)                              No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)                                        No
Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50)                   No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)                            No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Argentina Indigenous Community Development LIL focuses on strengthening social organization
and culture of indigenous peoples and formulating local development plans within indigenous lands.
Therefore, the PROFAM LIL will not specifically target indigenous peoples, but rather ensure
coordination, where appropriate, between the two projects.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD.
- 15 -



2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective
Lack of demand from LGs and CBOs for     M             Outreach and communication
Programa Equidad.                                      strategies included in project.
CNM does not receive continued support from   M        Conduct a communication
GOA for its focus on gender equity as an               campaign and promote horizontal
element of poverty reduction.                          exchange of positive experiences
among networks and families.
Counterpart funds are not made available in the  S     A condition of negotiations will be
national budget.                                       reserving the Bank and government
financial resources in the 2001
Budget Law.
Civil society organizations and local    N             Conduct educational campaigns and
governments do not support the values of               capacity building activities with
PROFAM and of working in networks.                     critical stakeholder groups.
From Components to Outputs
Beneficiaries and CNM do not remain      M             Develop beneficiary ownership and
committed to the conception of PROFAM as an            ensure a participatory focus.
innovative learning process.
The distribution of grants may not be timely.   M      Clear design of operation of
Programa Equidad to ensure an
efficient and focused process with
transparency and consensus.
Overall Risk Rating                      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
The question of reproductive health and access to family planning information and materials, while not a
direct objective of the project, may none-the-less be controversial depending on how the project's stance
is perceived by groups who are not supportive of such measures. Moreover, changes of traditional gender
roles and equity may be negatively perceived by some. The collaborative stance of the project and its
goal of promoting best practices among existing NGOs will mitigate against these possible negative
reactions.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition:
a. Presentation of the final version of the Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Other:
-16-



H: Readiness for Implementation
[] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[X]   b) Not applicable.
[X] 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement through the life of the LIL.
[X] 3. The LIL's implementation plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]    1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
lvjv,i~N\LAJ  /  b/}A'>/                                           A ,v,
Team Lea4er: Maria-Valeria Pena                  Team Leadert: Sandra Cesilini
or D   r: Ernesto May                           Sec r Director: John Redwood
Country Director: Myrna Alexander
- 17-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ARGENTINA: FAMILY STRENGTHENING AND SOCIAL CAPITAL PROMOTION PROJECT-PROFAM
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:  Sector / Country Reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To promote human capital                        National economic data,   Poverty alleviation
development, gender equity  Decrease in the     living standard surveys    prioritized by GOA
and poverty alleviation  proportion of families
living below the poverty                      No major economic and
Follow-on Development    line.                                          social crisis
Objective:
The well being of poor men
and women will improve
through support to gender
equity and strengthening of
families as comprehensive
units.
Project Development      Outcome / Impact       Project Reports:       (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:                                    Counterpart funds are
To test and monitor a social  As compared to a  Questionnaires, field   available and timely and
capital approach to address  baseline study:    visits and participatory    the GOA commitment to
the vulnerability of the poor  (a) improved awareness  beneficiary assessments   family strengthening and
by targeting families as  among beneficiary                             gender equity remains
comprehensive units and    families about the                           strong
promoting gender equity    importance of gender
equity and cohesive                           No major economic or
family practices as a                         social crisis
means of reducing their
vulnerability;
(b) improved awareness
among beneficiary
families about children's
emotional needs and
how to respond to them;
(c) decrease in domestic
violence episodes among
beneficiary families;
(d) improved evidence
of responsible
parenthood among
beneficiary families;
(d) increase in the
proportion of CBOs and
LGs connected in civil
society networks.
- 18-



Hierarchy of Objecves      Key Performance    M.trlg &             .liAtion
.__.__.__.__..__.__._    .   ndicator_ 
Output from each         Output Indicators:      Project Reports:       (from Outputs to Objective)
component:                                                              Programa Equidad finds a
Ia. Families' abilities to    la. At least 100  Project completion report  sustainable demand from
function cohesively are  subprojects are                                LGs and CBOs
strengthened             successfully            Supervision reports
implemented under                              CNM receives continued
Equity Program by the                         support from the
end of the project,                            government for its focus on
according to indicators                        gender equity as an element
included in the                               of poverty reduction
Operational Manual
lb. Community social     lb. At least 30                                Timely allocation of
capital is expanded.     networks of LGs and                             counterpart funds
CBOs receive
capacity on gender and                         A number of LGs and
cohesion approaches                            CBOs share the values of
PROFAM and of working
2. Gender awareness      2a. At least three                              in networks
(parental responsibility,  communication
reproductive health and   campaigns are carried
decision making, respect for out by the end of the
non traditional gender roles  project
among children and youth,)  2b. Ten "encuentros" of
among critical stakeholder   critical stakeholders are
groups increases         organized in different
areas of the country to
interchange positive
experiences related to
the objectives of
PROFAM
2c. Three dissemination
packages of
communication
materials linked to the
project themes are
defined and
implemented each year.
3. CNM capacity for      3. Small training and
communicating with local   dissemination
stakeholders and facilitating  workshops between
community driven         CNM and its local
initiatives is strengthened    agencies are organized
in all 24 provinces by
the end of the project
- 19 -



Hierarchy ofWObjoit .                                                            ei Assumptions
Project Components/Sub-    Inputs:               Project Reports:       (from Components to
components:              (in millions)                                   Outputs)
1. Family Strengthening:  1. US$4.27
a. Programa Equidad                             Supervision reports     Project beneficiaries and
Independent project    CNM remain committed to
b. Social Capital Promotion                     auditing                PROFAM as an innovative,
Ongoing participatory    learning process
2. Gender and            2. US$1.21             beneficiary assessment
Community Awareness:                                                    Timely distribution of
a. Meetings and workshops                                               grants
b. Publications and videos
c. Media Campaigns
3. Institutional         3. US$1.20
Development:
a. Consultants
b. Equipment
c. External auditors
d. Capacity building
e. Monitoring and
evaluation
f. Administrative unit
-20 -



Annex 2: Project Description
ARGENTINA: FAMILY STRENGTHENING AND SOCIAL CAPITAL PROMOTION PROJECT-PROFAM
The development objective of the Argentina Family Strengthening and Social Capital Promotion Project -
PROFAM is to test and monitor a social capital approach to address the vulnerability of the poor by
targeting families as comprehensive units and promoting gender equity. To achieve this objective, the
project will support, monitor, and learn from initiatives promoted by local governments (LGs) and
community-based organizations (CBOs), provide capacity building opportunities for networks, LGs, and
CBOs, and promote the dissemination of knowledge and experiences related to community interventions
supporting family development and equitable gender relations. The following three components have
been designed to meet this objective.
Project Component 1 - US$4.27 million
Family Strengthening
The strengthening of families through an approach, which recognizes them as agents rather than clients, is
important to capture and support family capacity in order to work cohesively to face the numerous
challenges of poverty. Recognizing the characteristics of families and communities, PROFAM will
support different types of initiatives from community-based networks, LGs and CBOs that are intended to
support families, promote more equitable gender relationships and expand community social capital. This
component consists of the following sub-components:
1.    Programa Equidad. The principal activity of PROFAM will be the implementation of the
Programa Equidad, a demand-driven grant program for the development of small subprojects which
promote and strengthen the capacity of families to actively function within their community.
Targeting. The Programa Equidad will target poor communities in Argentina where domestic violence
against women and children, teen pregnancy, juvenile delinquency, and substance and alcohol abuse are
higher. It will also target poor areas where there is a lack of access to reproductive health information and
options, including childcare.
Eligibility. LGs, service NGOs, CBOs and other civil society groups are eligible to apply for the small
grants program, although preference shall be given to those organizations that have proven targeting
mechanisms, technical experience in related themes, and demonstrate a capacity and willingness to be
innovative and to learn. Specific eligibility criteria for LGs and civil society organizations are detailed in
the Operations Manual. Those groups that do not fulfill the eligibility criteria but have potential may
receive technical assistance in order to refine and re-submit the proposals.
Selection. CNM will ensure that the proposals meet the minimum technical criteria before their inclusion
in the selection process. An evaluation and selection committee comprised of external specialists will be
established to conduct the review and selection of grant proposals. The principal responsibilities of the
committee will include: (a) carrying out a review of community subprojects in compliance with project
guidelines and eligibility criteria as defined in the Operations Manual; and (b) assessing community
participation in the identification, preparation and execution of subprojects and the quality of technical
assistance. The technical committee will also be responsible for establishing the paranThters to monitor
and evaluate subproject implementation.
Criteria. Priority shall be given to proposals that seek to promote more equitable gender relationships
within the family and/or the community. For those applicants that lack experience in the incorporation of
a gender approach, but demonstrate the capacity to achieve the goals of PROFAM, technical assistance
may be provided. The detailed eligibility criteria are included in the Operations Manual. Three key
selection criteria are that proposals must: (a) include a gender perspective; (b) foster partnerships among
LGs, CBOs and families in order to increase access, availability and utilization of resources; and (c)
-21 -



incorporate participatory decision-making processes with potential beneficiaries. Proposals will be
developed in accordance with procedures and criteria outlined in the Operations Manual. Small grant
requests may not exceed $30,000 and should include a minimum community contribution of 20 percent.
Technical assistance for the preparation and implementation of the subprojects may be included in the
proposal amount.
Menu. Due to the demand-driven, innovative nature of Programa Equidad, the Operations Manual
includes eligible themes, rather than specific activities. Some examples of subproject themes may include
reproductive health, domestic violence, maternal/paternal responsibility, rights and citizenship, child
welfare and educational support, culture and recreation, and environmental awareness. The project will
not finance religious or political activities, or major civil works
2.     Social Capital Promotion - Networks or associations of CBOs, NGOs, and in some cases, local
governments, are often better situated than central or provincial governments to work with poor
communities on the design, management and monitoring of community-based initiatives. In addition,
these networks provide an integrated approach to addressing problems of poverty and familial
relationships by promoting the collaboration and solidarity of these organizations. Often they are more
aware of the need to avoid prolonging clientelistic relations among the poor.
PROFAM will support the strengthening of existing networks, LGs, CBOs and other civil society
organizations through capacity building and technical assistance, and in some instances the provision of
basic equipment such as computers or printers. The selection criteria and procedures for such activities
are detailed in the Operations Manual, however priority will be given to those networks that demonstrate
innovative approaches to family strengthening, facilitate the participation of the family and promote more
equitable gender relations. Capacity building activities for the organizations will: (a) encourage
reciprocity among civil society and governmental organizations; (b) promote the articulation of an
integrated strategic approach to facilitate their collaboration; (c) improve the participation of families and
other stakeholders in the design, management and monitoring of community-based initiatives; and (d)
strengthen the administrative capacity of such organizations.
Project Component 2 - US$1.21 million
Gender and Community Awareness
The objective of this component is to promote awareness-raising and communication strategies at a
micro-level that seek to directly impact the project target areas to further enhance government-civil
society-community-family relationships, particularly related to reproductive health choices and decision
making, parental responsibility, respect for non-traditional gender roles among youth and children, etc.
Specifically, communication strategies will: (a) disseminate best practices on community interventions
dedicated to family development and equitable gender relation; (b) promote an increased understanding
about gender issues and the rights of children among critical stakeholder groups; (c) encourage the
participation of families as protagonists in the definition of their own priorities and evaluation of social
programs from which they benefit; and (d) increase awareness of benefits of working in alliances or
partnership networks.
Project Component 3 - US$1.20 million
Institutional Development
This component will build upon the existing project management capacity of the PIU within CNM as the
entity responsible for the coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the project by providing
technical assistance and capacity building for PIU staff and consultants. Specifically, this component will
support: (a) consultants to support the technical and administrative implementation of the project; (b)
capacity building for PIU staff and consultants; (c) the implementation of a monitoring and evaluation
system, including the definition of the baseline and performance indicators; (d) consultants for the project
audits; and (e) equipment (computers, printers, software etc) necessary for project implementation.
- 22 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ARGENTINA: FAMILY STRENGTHENING AND SOCIAL CAPITAL PROMOTION PROJECT-PROFAM
Prjc  ost By GioeU~mf                               s$l~i         Smliont
1. Family Strengthening
Programa Equidad                                      3.03           0.00          3.03
Social Capital Promotion                              0.87           0.16          1.03
Subtotal                                              3.90           0.16          4.06
2. Gender and Community Awareness                        1.02           0.13          1.15
3. Institutional Development                             1.05          0.11           1.16
Total Baseline Cost                                      5.97          0.41           6.38 a/
Physical Contingencies                                0.26           0.02          0.28
Price Contingencies                                   0.00           0.01          0.01
Total Project Costs              6.23           0.44          6.67
Front-end fee     0.00           0.05          0.05
Total Financing Required         6.23           0.49          6.72
a/ total does not add due to rounding
--ti - byCost .i- Catpnoryt - :;I -i,                 US $n-iHion    US $mIlion-
Goods                                                    0.69          0.05           0.74
Consultant Services and Training                         1.54          0.39           1.93
Subprojects                                              3.37           0.00          3.37
Operating Costs                                          0.63          0.00           0.63
Total Project Costs                      6.23          0.44           6.67
Front-end fee     0.00           0.05          0.05
Total Financing Required                 6.23          0.49          6.72
-23 -



Annex 4: Social Assessment
ARGENTINA: FAMILY STRENGTHENING AND SOCIAL CAPITAL PROMOTION PROJECT-PROFAM
1.    The social assessment (SA) conducted for the project was based on several reports on household, families,
gender, and poverty available for Argentina, including the 1999 Poverty Assessment and a Gender Portfolio Review
undertaken by the Gender Unit in LCSPR. It was also based on consultations with task managers, NGOs and
community-based groups. The project design, including components, sub-components, activities, costs and key
indicators, is compatible with the recommendations from the SA.
2.    Poverty and family organization are intrinsically linked. Decisions on the allocation of time, finances, and
use of resources and opportunities are made at the family level and they are based on the organization of gender and
generational roles. Variations in gender roles, including segregated or interchangeable and balanced roles will
affect reproductive pattems, acquisition of human capital, opportunities and timing of entrance in the labor market,
and income earning potential. In Argentina, family size is the single most importantfamily characteristic correlated
with per capita income and expenditure. An analysis of expenditure per capita in terms of a number of household
characteristics demonstrates that only the number of household members and the completion of primary school by
the household head were statistically significant, with a negative correlation between per capita expenditure and
household size accounting for almost all the "explained" variance. A review of the Bank portfolio in Argentina
suggests that attention to a family interaction framework and gender could improve the quality and development
impact of the Bank's investments in the sub-region.
3.    At the aggregate level, Argentina's relative achievements in reducing gender gaps and addressing gender-
differentiated issues are noteworthy. In terms of gender, this country displays many characteristics of an
industrialized nation: a gender balance in educational attainment, relatively low fertility levels and maternal
mortality rates, and one of the lower gender gaps in labor force participation in Latin America. The average wage
differential between men and women is not only among the lowest in the Region, but it compares very favorably to
many industrialized nations, such as the United States, Canada, Switzerland and Britain where the differential is
higher than Argentina's.
4.    While the average fertility rate is low compared to other Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) countries,
rates vary widely across socioeconomic groups, with rural and marginal urban areas at a disadvantage in terms of
access to services and information. The risk of maternal mortality increases with the number of pregnancies.
Together with infant mortality, maternal mortality accounts for the majority of all premature deaths. Maternal
mortality rates, again while comparatively low, range significantly in the country. The main reason for the high
number of children among poor women is lack of access to contraception. However, women also show a lack of
awareness regarding the linkage between multiple pregnancies, poverty, and their poor health status. Some women
consulted during the SA, often understand either pregnancy or nursing as a "destiny." Women would sometimes
remark that "religion forbids the use of contraception," a powerful argument in a very Catholic country. One
woman interviewed in a shelter for battered women during the field work also suggested that when their wives are
pregnant or nursing all the time, men are assured that they are able to "control" their wives and keep them at home.
In other words, high fertility is a poverty issue that results from a very segregated pattern of gender roles and very
often, it is linked to domestic violence.
5.    Teenage pregnancy continues to be a problem in Argentina with higher rates of adolescent pregnancy
observed among those girls with less formal education. Some studies also show that while fertility rates have
decreased since 1980, the incidence of pregnancy increased moderately among girls between the ages of 10 and 14.
Adolescent fertility rates also vary by region and by socioeconomic group. At one extreme, the Federal Capital
(14.2 per 1000) exhibits adolescent fertility rates similar to European nations whereas jurisdictions such as Chabut,
Formosa, Misiones, Rio Negro and Salta exhibit rates similar to other less developed Latin American countries
(over 50 per 1000).
6.    Pregnant teens are more likely live in poor households, and their children are more susceptible to the risk of
low birth weight, neglect and more likely will dropout from schools and live in poverty than those of other women.
A study of adolescent fertility conducted by Pantelides et al in Buenos Aires showed that adolescent girls and boys
- 24 -



have limited knowledge of how their reproductive systems function. The study also showed that among those
interviewed, 40 percent were not using contraceptive devices and 25 percent of these (all female) did not use
contraception because they wished to become pregnant. The study found that 94 percent of males and 77 percent of
females interviewed were sexually active, and among those, 15 and 41 percent, respectively, had experienced a
pregnancy. In the majority of the cases, girls had dropped out of school before becoming pregnant. Other factors
that put girls at risk of early pregnancy included: (a) having a mother or father who had his/her first child before the
age of 20; (b) having a sibling who had been an adolescent mother; and (c) having had a parent, particularly the
mother, absent from the home.
7.     The study found that 10 to 14 year olds were more likely to become pregnant by men over the age of 30, in
contrast with older adolescent groups, where it is rare that fathers are older than 30. A United Nations Development
Fund (UNDP) report ( Violencia de Genero) indicates that in absolute terms, of the 700,000 annual births, about
100,000 mothers are less than twenty years old. Evidence also shows that precocious pregnancies are more frequent
among those with less schooling or living in more precarious socioeconomic situation. Fathers of babies born from
women between the ages of 9 and 13 are on average ten years older than the mothers.3 Information reported by
UNDP also shows that in 1997, in some municipalities, there was a lack of paternal responsibility in half of all
children born that year. The lack of information and access has resulted in illegal abortions - the third cause of
maternal mortality in the country.
8.    Among the better-educated in Argentina, gender differences in salary levels and advancement in the labor
force persist. Moreover, while education has brought opportunities to women in the labor force, their contributions
are perceived as supplemental or secondary to men's. Domestic work continues to be for the most part a woman's
responsibility. Moreover, among the poor, responsibilities for housework and childcare constrain the potential for
women to work outside of their homes. Married women generally exhibit low labor force participation rates.
Among the poor, boys are expected to work starting very early in life, thus severely hindering their educational
attainment and future income, leading to lifelong frustration.
9.     For adult men, despite continued economic growth, high unemployment is an emerging problem, which has
led to high incidences of depression, substance abuse, and violence among men. This appears to be due to social
norms and systems governing male roles, the stigma men face when they are unable to fulfill their primary role as
family provider, and the fact that male roles tend to be narrowly defined. Substance abuse and alcoholism,
particularly among men, are important worries for their families. This is a factor in violence among youngsters and
domestic violence against women and children, and it is an obstacle to resources and income opportunities.
Domestic violence and street violence are commonly reported and are rapidly becoming one of the most important
items on the agenda of local governments and NGOs.
10.   Research conducted by the World Bank demonstrates that a community with high levels of social capital is
more likely to organize itself, define, and pursue common goals. Moreover, social capital is an important asset in
any ongoing program or project requiring collective action, as in the case of PROFAM. The 2000 Social Capital
Survey in Argentina indicates that the diversity and frequency of networking in the lowest income quintile is lower
than in the highest. For example, among those living in the poorest quintile, only 32.8 percent socialize with friends
in contrast with almost the double in the highest quintile (59.5 percent). Whereas 58.4 percent of residents in the
highest quintile households affirm they participate in activities with their families, this is true for only 43 percent of
residents in the poorest quintile households. On the other hand, among the poor that participate in any association,
33 percent participate in philanthropic organizations and 48.8 percent in religious organizations (48.8 percent) as
compared to those in the highest income quintile (33.8 percent and 23.7 percent respectively).
H1.   These results indicate that generosity might be a characteristic of the poor. There is a need for actions that
mobilize and expand this generous characteristic of their social capital by: (a) supporting civil society organizations
which are community based and able to enrich family and community life; and (b) supporting actions that bridge
gaps between poor families and community and service organizations. PROFAM will provide support to both
3 Aldo Isuani-Daniel Filmus (1998). Los Retos de la Salud Reproductive. La Argentina Que Viene: anatisis y propuestas para unca
sociedad en transici6n. CEDES: Buenos Aires
- 25 -



actions, testing the hypothesis that by promoting a more cohesive and less segregated family life, there will be a
positive impact on the ability of families to face challenges posed by poverty.
12.   Strategic recommendations. First, the LIL should act upon traditionally held gender roles and expectations
so that women and men can take advantage of the newly created opportunities, particularly less crowded households
and more schooling. Different channels need to be used to promote change in gender-based social expectations,
such as the media, education, families, and communities. PROFAM has defined a specific component to be
financed under the loan. Second, to address this, the LIL should act through community and local level
organizations. Decentralized mechanisms and community-based organizations have comparatively more
advantages than the central government to address issues identified in this report that require sustainable changes in
attitudes, such as substance abuse, family disintegration, domestic violence, violence among young men, maternal
health, teenage pregnancy, or reproductive health. PROFAM will act through community social capital and will
finance specific activities. Third, it is important that the LIL target males as well as females because gender is a
relational category. PROFAM will incorporate this criteria in the Operations Manual for the Programa Equidad.
- 26 -



Annex 5: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ARGENTINA: FAMILY STRENGTHENING AND SOCIAL CAPITAL PROMOTION PROJECT - PROFAM
Procurement
A. General
Procurement of goods financed by the Bank under the project would be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines,
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant services will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January
1999, and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. No civil works or recurrent costs will be financed under the
proposed LIL.
Procurement methods: The methods to be used for procurement are described below and the estimated amounts for
each method are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are established in
Table B.
B. Procurement Responsibilities and Capacity
Procurement activities for the Gender and Community Awareness and Institutional Development components will be
carried out by the Project Implementing Unit (PIU) of the National Council of Women (Consejo Nacional de la Mujer,
CNM). This unit will also coordinate and supervise procurement actions for the subprojects where procurement activities
will be carried out directly by the beneficiaries. An assessment of the capacity of CNM was carried out before appraisal
to review the organizational structure of the PIU, identify weaknesses and risk factors, and propose specific actions to be
addressed before effectiveness.
The procurement assessment indicated that the PIU, specifically the Administrative Chief, has experience and knowledge,
although some limitations were identified in procurement procedures. For instance, limited experience exists in
community-based procurement, which represents the majority of the LIL's procurement activities and where procurement
supervision and monitoring will be key for successfully implementing the subprojects. To minimize the risk related to the
lack of procurement experience with World Bank projects, it was agreed that as part of the Action Plan, the
Administrative Chief will enhance her knowledge with training on selection of consultants for World Bank projects. Due
to the small amount of procurement required for the LIL, an experienced consultant will be retained for procurement
assistance, specifically for LIL activities, when required. In addition, an independent consultant will conduct audits on
one out of every five subprojects on a yearly basis.
C. Procurement Arrangements
1. Procurement of Works
No procurement of works is anticipated under the project.
2. Procurement of Goods
Goods to be procured under the project include computers, printers, videos, publications, and reproduction of promotional
materials. Due to the nature and small amounts required, grouping of these purchases would not be feasible.
Consequently, no foreign or domestic suppliers would be interested for ICB or NCB procedures. If required, contracts
above $50,000 should be procured under NCB procedures. The actual procurement methods would be determined on the
basis of the annual CNM procurement plans. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of US$530,000 equivalent may be procured using shopping procedures based on a model request for
quotations satisfactory to the Bank.
- 27 -



3. Consultant Services and Training
Consulting services include technical assistance and provision of training. Most of these services are expected to be
carried out by individual consultants. Training and promotion activities would include the rental of facilities, materials,
meals, and transportation expenses for participants.
Firms
Consultant services carried out by a firm will be hired using QCBS procedures.
Individuals
The project would finance individual consultants for the strengthening of CNM's PIU, i.e. staff for administration of the
project, and training for beneficiaries in organization and preparation of community initiatives. Short-term consultants
will carry out the majority of these assignments. For the administration of the project, one long-term assignment has been
identified and would be selected in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines taking into consideration the total cost of the contract for the long-term duration of the assignment. This
contract would include clauses on periodic evaluation and termination.
4. Subprojects
The project includes an estimated amount of US$3.37 million equivalent for subprojects. These subprojects consist of
grants to finance initiatives proposed by municipalities and civil society associations on a competitive basis. Subprojects
are not predefined. Typical subprojects to be considered may include: (a) domestic violence interventions where children
are supported and both men and women are; (b) community-based "host" families where children from dysfunctional and
violent parents are placed temporarily; (c) after-school programs that support children with learning disabilities by
involving both parents; and (d) local government-sponsored health centers that offers an after-school program to facilitate
discussion groups among men and women about reproductive health roles and responsibilities and responsible
parenthood; etc. The financing of individual subprojects can not exceed US$30,000. The Operations Manual describes in
detail the selection procedure and eligibility criteria and conditions applicable to the subprojects. Beneficiaries have to
contribute in cash or in kind with 20% of the total amount of the subproject. An individual subproject could consist of
goods, works or services, or any combination of the three. Procurement under subprojects is done by the beneficiaries and
to the extent possible would follow shopping procedures. For small purchases of consumption items and off-the-shelf
goods direct contracting may be considered. Subprojects will be subject to post-review.
5. Prior Review
The prior review thresholds are summarized in Table B. Bank's prior review will be required for a) any NCB; b) the first
three contracts under national shopping procedures; c) contracts with individuals consultants above $50,000, and for
consultant firms above $100,000. The proposed thresholds for prior review are the standard thresholds used in Argentina.
In addition to the prior review of individual procurement actions, an Annual Operating Plan and budget will be reviewed
and approved by the Bank.
6. Procurement Supervision
Procurement Plan. CNM has prepared an indicative plan for the 3-year period of project implementation, which provides
the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). Annual procurement plans will be
submitted as part of the Annual Operating Plan.
In addition to the prior review, it is recommended that two full supervision mission visit the field to carry out post review
of procurement actions six months after Project initiation and yearly thereafter. Such post-review field analysis should
cover a sample of not less than 20 percent of contracts signed and one out of five subprojects.
-28 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
'ExpenditureCategQry                                                TotalCost
NC8--   Other at      N_._F_.-
1. Goods                                  b/            0.53       0.21            0.74
(0.40)                     (0.40)
2. Consultant Services and Training                     1.90       0.03            1.93
--         (1.90)        --            (1.90)
3. Subprojects                                          3.37                       3.37
(2.65)                     (2.70)
4. Operating Costs                                                 0.63c           0.63
5. Front-end Fee                                        0.05                       0.05
(0.05)                     (0.05)
Total                                                5.85        0.87           6.72d
(5.00)                     (5.05)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan. All costs include contingencies.
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
a/ Includes goods to be procured through national shopping (US$0.53 m.), consulting services (US$1.04 m),
training (US$0.9 m), and subprojects (US$3.37 m).
b/ Contracts for goods estimated to cost more than US$50,000 per contract should be carried out under NCB.
Procedures. During preparation, no contracts above US$50,000 were planned and therefore not costed.
c/ Includes operating costs related to managing the project.
d/ Total amount does not add due to rounding.
- 29 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
X~~~~ A
QCBS    QBS   LCS   CQ        Other
A. Individuals                                   1.00                1.00
(1.00)            (1.00)
B. Firms             0.02                                           0.02
(0.02)                                         (0.02)
Total     0.02                        1.00               1.02
.______ ______             ______   _  _(0.02)  _   (1.00)          (1.02)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Table A2: Procurement Plan (in US $million)
im E$g1 Contracts,'   !A 0..iFM    "I   S            2     Ag ,  M
Equipment                    1               0.05           X
Promotional Material        N/A              0.69           X            X          X
Individual Consultants      -15              1.00           X            X          X
Consultant Firms             -1              0.02           X            X          X
Training                    N/A              0.91
Subprojects                -140              3.37           X            X          X
Operating Costs             N/A              0.63           X            X          X
TOTAL                            6.67
Front-end Fee                            0.05
TOTAL                            6.72
-30 -



Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(Th  Ihod)          -rcureetPiRve
Expenditure Categoryr i-; -i   thousXad)      MehdfS iio
1. Goods
>50,000              NCB                All if any
<50,000          Local Shopping     First three contracts
2. Services
(a) Individual            >50,000                CQ                   All
<50,000               CQ                TORs-CV
(b) Firms                 >100,000             QCBS                   All
<100,000             QCBS              TOR/short list
3. Subprojects
<30,000               N/A                 None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 800,000
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Every six months.
-31 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements will be made against the categories of expenditures indicated in Table C. The proceeds of the proposed
LIL are expected to be disbursed over a period of three years. The Bank will not finance any recurrent costs. The project
is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004 and the Loan Closing Date would be June 30, 2005.
Financial Management/Disbursement Procedures
A Bank-certified Financial Management Specialist carried out an assessment of CNM during project preparation. CNM
will be responsible for all project implementation activities, including accounting, disbursement, monitoring and
evaluation, coordination, and supervision. CNM will implement the project through the existing Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) comprised of both technical and administrative specialists and managed by an Executive Coordinator. Short-
term consultants will be hired to strengthen the PIU for special tasks, when necessary.
Based on the financial management assessment, CNM is not eligible for Project Management Report-based
disbursements. It was agreed that traditional disbursement procedures would be used for a transition period of six months
after project effectiveness. These arrangements will be reflected in the Operations Manual of the project.
Disbursements will be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under contracts requiring prior
review by the Bank, and contracts whose value will be raised above the prior review limits as a result of amendments. For
all other expenditures, disbursements will be made against SOEs: (a) goods costing less than $50,000; (b) contracts for
consulting firms, including NGOs costing less than $100,000; (c) contracts for individual consultants costing less than
$50,000; (d) all training expenditures; and (e) all Programa Equidad grant expenditures
Special Account
Payments from the loan proceeds will be administered by the PIU from a Special Account. The Special Account will be
maintained in US dollars in a commercial bank selected by the Borrower and acceptable to the World Bank. The
authorized allocation, sufficient for about four months of eligible expenditures, would be US$500,000. The Special
Account will be managed by the PIU which will be responsible for preparing disbursement requests. These requests
would be submitted monthly or when the Special Account has been drawn down by a third of the initial deposit,
whichever occurs first. The Special Account will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing of up to US$ 500,000 (10% of the Loan amount) will be allowed for
eligible expenditures incurred not earlier than October 23, 2000.
Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements
The project will maintain project accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices acceptable to the Bank, as
required by the Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH). CNM will have the records and
accounts of the project for each fiscal year audited, with a separate opinion with respect to the Statements of Expenditures
and the Special Account, by independent and qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank. A national auditor will audit all
project operations (on an annual basis), as described in the Operations Manual. In addition, a private auditing firm will be
contracted to assess management capacity of a sample of beneficiary organizations. Project expenditures will be recorded
in such a way that all related sources of funds and types of expenditures are clearly identified. CNM will (a) establish a
consistent financial, accounting and reporting system for the project and (b) maintain all required information and
supporting documentation corresponding to project implementation. The requirements for accounting, financial reporting,
and auditing are described in detail in the Operations Manual.
- 32 -



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(in US$ thousands)
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$'0     |-  Finaneing Percentage
Goods                                 380,000                   100% Foreign
_ _______________________         50%     Local
Consultant Services and Training     1,300,000                   100%
Subprojects                          2,570,000          100% of CNM's contribution
Project Preparation Facility          500,000                    100%
Front-end Fee                          50,000                    100%
Unallocated                           200,000
Total                                5,000,000
- 33 -



Annex 6: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
ARGENTINA: FAMILY STRENGTHENING AND SOCIAL CAPITAL PROMOTION PROJECT - PROFAM
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         3
First Bank mission (Identification)            06/25/2000           06/25/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    09/18/2000           10/16/2000
Negotiations                                   12/04/2000            10/5/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  01/01/2001
Prepared by:
National Council of Women (CNM)
Preparation assistance:
PHRD and PPF
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Maria-Valeria Pena, Co-Task Manager         Senior Social Scientist, LCSEO
Sandra Cesilini, Co-Task Manager            Social Development Specialist, LCC7C
Mariana Montiel                             Senior Counsel, LEGLA
Maria Elena Castro                          Senior Social Scientist, LCSEO
Teresa Roncal                               Procurement Analyst, LCSES
Lee Anne Adams                              Operations Analyst, LCSEO
Susana Cirigliano                           Financial Management Specialist, LCOAA
Andres MacGaul                              Country Procurement Specialist, LCOPR
Vanessa Andreani                            Team Assistant, LCC7C
Luis Constantino                            Peer Reviewer, SASRD
Marc Alexander                              Peer Reviewer, ECCSD
Maria Madalena dos Santos                   Peer Reviewer, LCSHE
- 34 -



Annex 7: Documents in the Project File
ARGENTINA: FAMILY STRENGTHENING AND SOCIAL CAPITAL PROMOTION PROJECT - PROFAM
A. Project Implementation Plan
Operations Manual
Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Assessment
Financial Assessment
C. Other
Comisi6n Nacional de la Mujer. Informe de Avances de Ejecuci6n. 8 de marzo, 1999.
Comisi6n Nacional de la Mujer. Informe Nacional sobre el Grado de Avance de la Plataforma de Acci6n:
Pekin+5. M6dulo 1: La Mujery la Pobreza, 1999.
Comisi6n Nacional de la Mujer. Memoria del Taller de Andlisis de Genero y Politcas Putblicas. 29 y 30 de abril,
1997.
De Silva, Samantha. Community-based Contracting: A Review of Stakeholder Experience. The World Bank:
Washington, DC. January 2000.
Gender and the Argentinean Economy, Studies on Gender in Education, Labor Markets, Microenterprise, and
Land. LCSPR.
Poor People in a Rich Country.
Reporte del Proyecto de Fortalecimiento Institucional en Genero. 15 de noviembre, 1999.
Secretaria del Trabajo y Previsi6n Social. Memoria del Seminario Nacional Tripartito para el analisis del Plan
de Accion - Mas y mejores empleos para las mujeres en Mexico. Octubre 1998.
*Including electronic files.
-35 -



Annex 8
CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Argentina
Argentina
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 7/31/2001
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                       Disbursed
FY Approval                                               Company           Loan   Equity Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity Quasi  Partic
2000 ASF                   20       0      0       0      0       0      0       0
1998 AUTCL               5.22       0      0       0   5.22      0       0      0
1994 Aceiteta Chabas        0    3.1       0       0      0    3.1       0      0
1994 Aceitera General       5    6.9       0       0      5    6.9       0      0
1960/95/97/99                                             Acindar            48.61       0      0       0  48.61       0      0       0
1994/95/96                                                Aguas                  0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0
1977/84/86/88/94/96                                       Alpargatas            10       0      0   40.5      10       0      0   40.5
1999 American Plast         9       0      0       0      9      0       0      0
1993 Arg Equity 1nv.        0   2.84       0       0      0   2.84       0      0
2000 Argentina SMMC        50   12.5       0       0      0   12.5       0       0
1989/91/96                                                BBV Bco. Frances    1.27       0      0       0   1.27       0      0       0
1994/99                                                   BGN                    0       0     33       0      0       0     33      0
2001 BSFE                  20       0      0       0    3.3       0      0       0
1996/9S Banco Galicia         0       0      0      45      0       0      0     45
1996 Bansud              2.64      0       0       0   2.64      0       0      0
2000 Bco Hipotecario       25       0      0  102.5      25       0      0  102.5
1996 Brahina - ARG          5      0    8.5    9.9        5      0    8.5    9.9
1997 Bunge-Ceval        11.79       0      5       0  11.79      0       5      0
1996 CAPSA               7.64       0      5     21   7.64       0       5     21
1999 CCI                    0     20      20       0      0     20       6      0
1995 CEPA                6.67       0      3     1.2   6.67       0      3     1.2
2000 Cefas                 10       0      5       0      6       0      5       0
1999 Correo Argentino      63   6.82   5.18        0     63   6.82   5.18       0
1999 DI TELLA               9       0      0       0      0       0      0       0
1994/95                                                   EDENOR                 0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0
1998 F.V. S.A.           9.75      0       4       0   9.75      0       4      0
1998 FAID                   0   2.75       0       0      0   2.75       0      0
2000 FAPLAC                 10      0      5       0      10      0      5       0
1992 FEPSA                1.65      0      2       0    1.65      0      2       0
1997 FRIAR                 10       0    2.5       7     10       0    2.5       7
1996 Grunbaum               6       0      2   3.33       6       0      2   3.33
1995/97                                                   HSBC Argentina        28       0      0       0     28       0      0       0
1998 Hospital Privado     9.6       0      0       0    7.5       0      0       0
1992 Huantraico             0      10      0       0      0       0      0       0
1995/97                                                   Kleppe/Caldero         6       0      0       0      6       0      0       0
1996 MBA                    0   0.16       0       0      0   0.16       0       0
1992/93/96                                                Malteria Pampa        2.5      0       1      0    2.5       0       1      0
0/97                                                      Milkaut              6.25      0      10      2   6.25       0      10      2
1978/81/86/87/91/93/96/99                                 Minetti               30       0     14    100      30       0     14    100
1993/94                                                   Molinos                0   1.24       0       0      0   1.24       0       0
1995 Nahuelsat            12.5      5      0       0   12.5       5      0       0
1996/99                                                   Neuquen Basin          0       5      0       0      0       0      0       0
1993 Nuevo Central        1.88      3      0    1 25    1.88      3      0    1.25
1992 OleaginosaOeste     0.76       0   1.25   0.31    0.76       0   1.25   0.31
1992/95                                                   PAE - Argentine      5.45      0      0  10.91    5.45       0      0  10.91
1998 Patagonia            3.5       0      1       0     3.5      0       1      0
1998 Patagonia Fund         0  19.97       0       0      0    7.5       0       0
1996 Pecom               9.09       0      0       9   9.09       0      0       9
1990/94                                                   Petroken             7.95      0       0   1.14   7.95       0       0    1.14
1994 Quilmes             5.57       0      0       0   5.57       0      0       0
1992 Rioplatense         5.33       1      0   1.67   5.33        1      0    1.67
1999 S.A. San Miguel     8.24       0      0       0   8.24       0      0       0
1995 SIDECO                 0      15      0       0      0      15      0       0
1995 SanCor                10       0     20       3      10      0     20       3
1995 Socma               6.26       0      0      15   6.26       0      0      15
1997/98                                                   Suquia                35       0      0      25     35       0      0      25
1997 T61                 8.89       0      5   22.5   8.89        0       5   22.5
1987/89/90/96/97                                          Terminal 6          8.89       0      0   9.75   8.89        0       0   9.75
1995 Terminales Port.      5.5      0      0       0    5.5       0      0       0
1995/00                                                   Tower Fund             0       5      0       0       0   3.44       0      0
1995 Tower Fund Mgr         0   0.14       0       0      0   0.14       0       0
1996 Transconor         21.23       0   18.5 166.17  21.23        0    18.5 166.17
2001 USAL                   10      0       0      0       4      0       0      0
1997 Vicentin           19.38       0      0       4  19.38       0       0      4
- 36 -



1993 Yacylec              4.4   5.04       0     1.6    4.4   5.04       0     1.6
1996 Zanon              17.67      0       0      0  17.67       0       0      0
Total Portfolio:                             637.08 125.46 170.93 603.73 529.28  96.43 156.93 603.73
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity Quasi  Partic
1999 American Plast         0    350       0      0
2000 ALEF               25000       0      0 150000
2000 Hipotecario USCP  25000        0      0       0
2000 Argentina SMMC   50000  37500         0 450000
2001 Gasnor             20000       0      0 20000
2001 Edenor SME         20000       0      0       0
2001 Eki                 9500       0   2500       0
2001 ITBA                7000       0      0       0
Total Pending Commitment:                         156500  37850   2500 620000
-37-



CAS Annex Bt - Argentina
Status of Bank Group Operafions (Operations Portfolio)
As Of Date tI)e12ta
Closed Projecta     76
IBRDIDA-
Totl Disbursed (Adte)       2,408.30
olfwN.h has been re-aid  290.91
Total Disbursed (Closed)    12.493.40
of which hes boen repaid  5,333.40
Total Di.bursed (AcW. . Closed)  14,901.69
of which hes boon rerpid  5,624.33
Total Undisbu.ned (Atve)    2,060.07
Total Undslbursed (Closed)  12.14
Total Undsbr-d (Aetv. . Closed)   2,072.21
Active Prriects                                                                                                                                                              Diffeence Between
Last PSR                                                                                                       Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating                                         Onainal Amount in US$ Millions                            Disbursements s
Project ID                  Project Name              Develooent   lmolermentation     Fiscal Year            IBRD               IDA         GRANT            Cancel.   Undisb.     Or4g. Frm Revd
P039787                     AR BIODIVERSITY CONSE S                        S              1998                                                 10.1                       8.2        0.6
P044447                     AR Calamarca Provinaal Rt S                    S              2001                  70                                                       44.3
P068344                     AR Cordoba PRL5         S                      S              2001                 303                                                        200
P057473                     AR INDIGENOUS COMMUI S                         S              2001                   5                                                          5        0.3
P050713                     AR MODEL COURT DEV. S                          S              1998                   5                                                        3.5        3.5
P046821                     AR PENSION TA           S                      S              1997                  20                                                        5.9        5.9
P006018                     AR PROV DEVTrII         S                     HS              1995                 225                                                       39.1        6.6
P037049                     ARPUB.INV.STRENGTHGS                           S              1996                  16                                               5.5      5.8       11.3
P073591                     AR SAL 1                                                      2002                 400                                                        200
P055461                     AR SOC&FISC NTL ID SYE HS                      S              1999                  10                                                        4.7        4.7
P069913                     AR Santa Fe Provincal Refr #                                  2002                 330                                                      176.7
P057449                     AR State Modemization   S                      S              1999                 30.3                                                      25.2       25.2
P057459                     AR Sustainable Fishenes M S                    S              2001                   5                                                          5         0
P064614                     AR- Second Secondary Edi S                     S              2001                  57                                                       56.4       -0.6
P043418                     AR-AIDSANDSTDCONTFS                            S              1997                  15                                                        2.2        2.2
P03388                     AR-HEALTH INSURANCE IS                         U              2000                  4.9                                                       4.9        3.6
P034091                     AR-HIGHER ED. REFORMS                          S              1996                 165                                                       57.6       57.6     10.3
P006059                     AR-MATERNAL & CHILD H S                        S              1997                 100                                                       49.7       14.7
P006030                     AR-PROV. HEALTH SECT(S                         S              1996                101.4                                             14.3     10.6       24.9
P055482                     AR-PUB. HLTH. SURV. & I S                      S              2000                 52.5                                                      47.7       25.6
P006057                     AR-SECONDARY ED 2   S                          S              1996                115.5                                                      41.4       41.4
P050714                     AR-SECONDARY EDUCAIS                          HS              1998                 119                                                       11.8       11.8
P049269                     AR-SOCIAL PROTECTION S                         S              1998                 284                                                       19.9       19.9
P006058                     AR-SOCIAL PROTECTION S                         S              1999                 90.8                                                      65.2      29.5
P039584                     B.A.URB.TSP             U                      U              1997                 200                                                      125.9       95.9      2.9
P055935                     EL NINO EMERGENCY FL S                         S              1998                  42                                                       23.1       23.1     23.1
P006052                     FLOOD PROTECTION    S                          S              1997                 200                                                      138.8      127.8    10608
P006040                     FORESTRY/DV             S                      S              1996                  16                                                        6 3        4.9
P006060                     MUNIC DEVT II           HS                    HS              1995                 210                                              2.9      49.6        -3
P040808                     N.FOREST/PROTC          S                      S              1997                 19.5                                                      11.7         1
P052590                     NAT HWtY REHAB&MAINT S                         S              1998                 450                                                      161 2      124.7
P006050                     POLLUTION MGT.          U                      U              1998                  18                                                       16.8       13.1      6.7
P006010                     PROVAGDEVTI             S                      U              1997                 125                                                      110.7      54.9      26.4
P005980                     PROV ROADS              S                      S              1997                 300                                                      222.9      193.9
P005920                     REDUCTION OF OZONE C S                         S              1997                                                  25                       11.2      -10.5
a. Inlended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



P006043                     RENEWENERGY R.MKTS S                         S             1999                  30                                                     28.4      8.5
P045048                     RENEWENERGY R MKTS S                                       1999                                                9.2                       8.6      2.7
P005968                     SEGBAV                 U                     U             1987                 276                                           10,5      17.2     27.7       2.9
P006041                     SMALL FARMER DV        S                     S             1998                  75                                                     38.2     30.4      30.4
P006046                    WATER SCTR RFRM         S                     U             1999                  30                                                      27       19.5
Overall result                                                                         Result             4515.8                          44.3            33 2   2088.1       650    209.5
aed
a Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursern ents to date as projected at appraisal.



Annex )
Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999      2000      Inflation
Domestic prices(%
(% change)                                                                           6
Consumer prices                              100.8  2,314 0        -1.2     -0.8   1 4
Implicit GDP deflator                         90.8  2,076.8       -1 9       1.1     2_        _
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 -2
Current revenue                                8.1      14.4      19.7      19.7     4
Current budget balance                         3.1      -1.5      -1.5       15                    GDP deflator  -OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       -2.5      -2.5      -2.6      -2.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1980     1990       1999     2000       Export and import levels (US$ mill.i
Total exports (fob)                              .   12,488     23,315    26,244     40,000
Food                                            .    1,374     2,063     2,322
M eat                                                 873        829       933     30,000
Manufactures                                   ..   3,364      6,952     7,825
Total imports (cif).    4,197                                   25,538    25,157     2,5
Food..                                                  ....
Fuel and energy                                       423        730       719     2
Capital goods                                  ..    1,338    11,902    11,724
64  05  66  97  08  66  00
Export price index (1995=100)                                       80        88
Import price index (1995=100)                                       85       83                    O Exports    F Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                           94      106
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999      2000      CurrentaccountbalancetoGDP(%)
(hiss mrllions)
Exports of goods and services                9,893   14,727     27,836    31,005
Imports of goods and services               13,081    6,954     32,687    32,685     1
Resource balance                            -3,188    7,773     -4,851    -1,679
Net income                                  -1,609   -6,203     -7,473    -7,517
Net current transfers                         -101       71        379      287    -3
Current account balance                     -4,898    1,641    -11,945    -8,909     4
Financing items (net)                        6,776    1,352     13,146     8,470     s
Changes in net reserves                     -1,878   -2,993     -1,201      439    -6 -
Memo:                                                                              1
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           .   10,814     27,831    26,465
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US5)          4.99E-08      0.5        1.0       1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999      2000
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        27,157   62,232    145,994   146,395
IBRD                                        404    2,609       8,596     8,789                         A 8,789
IDA                                                                                   G: 31,545           C: 5,056
Total debt service                           4,182    6,158     27,900    26,500                                   D: 11,633
IBRD                                          71      414       982      1,239
IDA                                            0        0          0        0                                      E ,9
Composition of net resource flows                                                                        . ........-. ....
Official grants                                2       21          6        6                    ..... ..
Official creditors                            58      456      1,538     1,957
Private creditors                          6,038     -974      3,478    -4,204
Foreign direct investment                   678    1,836       8,236    10,696
Portfolio equity                               0       13       -112       15                         F: 85,073
World Bank program
Commitments                                   27        0        132      441      A-IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                71       405      1,573     1,020     8 -IDA    D-Othermultilateral   F-Private
Principal repayments                          34      233       445       538      C - IMF                      G- Short-term
Net flows                                     37      172      1,128      482    1                                           1
Interest payments                            37       182       537       701
Net transfers                                  0      -10       591      -219
Development Economics                                                                                                   9/13/01
-40 -









IBRD 293A8
'O.7                                                        60'        f                                          50,
-2                       BLIIA                    !                                                                                          20O-
0~~~ ?          0 L I,1 
}   02            i   \.sPARAGUAY 
,   ,j  .,~~~~de Ju@,,juyOr,.,,  ;>ftu                                     -          B  R  A    Z  I L                     -- -]r7~
\ . . . - . S t i 4 , P~~~ormosa  v  
(   ) I,             Tufff~um6n      0f t -          *iQ                   9
i   '   <-         '@  is f  jltC9     Resistencia<,  Posad<@frs Dy  
<   l      >tt  td ,. b  fSonati,agodel !serq        r ,,-iCorrientes;  r        
IU  4   "               % .t    I :'sC-Em Rc          I       .                                            '
.      ,}   i ~~~La Rio aS       ;           ,,8'o                    
:     t>   -Nt-.f'8'U   5 A  :}1,4  1.. 
*-30-                                                                         IC        .%O \4t'     f ; - / y ,( 
.      t      ,  J~~JUA  t!    iC6rdoba   ! Joto 
'  r  Sani  'tjlDt  ft., t F                 X            RUGAY 
:     jf       ffA~Menoz          SantaRssf\  
~~~~~~~~~~~1  -- N 0  _                                                                     A    T  L', fA   N    T   
Z )9 \ Neuqu6lif'',6                                                                                     0 C E A  fN
-#p tf (__i-/ i !~~ E G, 7 r )
a,9 X.. .. - A-RGENTINA
U   ff       (_ t c f Il Li Bi jI  .5   
:    'gf  fF   '  > . .'   . . .  ,        ;                     fSf~~~ PROVINCE CAPrS
St>  h _ +'.' ' ,. fs~~~~~~~(                                       NATION>AL CAPIl>TAL
- at C - -( > < < H < ~~~~~~~PRMNCE DOUNOi[ARIE$
A  4      <                                                         X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTEANATIOClNAffL SOUffNDARIES
t 2~~ SA,N 7 Lw 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 .11  2p  300< .r ~-.  6-- K)IOMtX4f
.mmp OAo by Xth map0iff at d rhoe VI"loo
-  '  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~1    ,V'n, Amco;winVo  and .............    t'',-..- .,oendoMeria n s
APRIL 1998



