Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4640-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Family Strengthening and Social Capital Promotion Project) 
 
between 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 3, 2002 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4640-AR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 3, 2002, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
“(c) 
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived 
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  3
-
2
-
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Civil Society Group” means a non-government organization or an 
association duly registered in the Borrower’s territory which meets the criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual to participate under Parts A.1 and  A.2 of the Project; 
(b) “CNM” 
means 
Consejo Nacional de la Mujer
,
the Borrower’s National 
Council of Women; 
(c) 
“Decree No. 1426” means the Borrower’s Decree No. 1426 of August 7, 
1992 which created CNM, as such Decree has been amended to the date of this 
Agreement; 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;  
(f) 
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower, 
through CNM, to a Local Government or a Civil Society Group, as the case may be, out 
of the proceeds of the Loan for purposes of financing a portion of the total cost of a 
Subproject as provided in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.05 (a) of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the indicators that will be used to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project; 
(i) 
“Local Government” means the Government of the City of Buenos Aires 
(
Gobierno de la Ciudad Buenos Aires
)
or any municipality or group of municipalities as 
so defined by the Constitution of a Borrower’s Province in which said municipality is 
located that meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to participate under 
Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project; 
(j) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(k) 
“PIU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(m) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter of agreement signed on behalf 
of the Bank on May 10, 2000; 
(n) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
(o) 
“Subproject” means any of the projects which will address the subjects 
referred to in Part A.2 of the Project. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to CNM. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five million 
Dollars ($5,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) 
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts disbursed (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be disbursed) by the Borrower under 
a
Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the carrying out of 
a
Subproject; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A.1, A.3, B and C 
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in the amount 
of fifty thousand Dollars ($50,000). On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
Page  6
-
5
-
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon n
ot
less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through CNM with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, financial, gender 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through CNM shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
Page  7
-
6
-
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure 
the continued achievement of the Project’s objective; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through CNM, shall carry out the Project in accordance with a 
manual (the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, providing, 
inter alia 
for: (i) the 
criteria for selecting Local Governments and Civil Society Groups under Part A.2 of the 
Project; (ii) the criteria and guidelines for approving Subprojects; (iii) the terms and 
conditions of a sample Grant Agreement; and (iv) the procurement and disbursement 
procedures for the Project. 
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower, through CNM, shall upon approval of a 
Subproject, enter into  an agreement (the Grant Agreement) with the Local Government 
or the Civil Society Group which will be carrying out said Subproject, as the case may 
be, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the obligation 
of said Local Government or Civil Society Group to contribute at least 20% of the total 
cost of said Subproject (said contribution to be made either in cash, in kind, through the 
provision of labor, or by means of any combination thereof).  
(b) 
(i) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Grant Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Grant 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and operate within CNM at all 
times during Project implementation, an implementation unit (the PIU) with functions 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility to 
assist CNM in the evaluation, monitoring and overall supervision of the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU is, at all times during the 
implementation of the Project, headed by an executive manager and assisted by staff in 
adequate numbers, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower through CNM, shall: (a) not later than December 31 of each 
Page  8
-
7
-
year of Project implementation, starting on the year 2002, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank, an annual operating plan, acceptable to the Bank, providing for, 
inter alia
,
the 
Project activities to be carried out during the calendar year following the date of 
presentation of said plan; and (b) thereafter implement said plan in accordance with its 
terms. 
Section 3. 08.  The Borrower, through CNM,  shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 31 of each year during Project implementation, starting with 
the report due on March 31, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar year preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the calendar year 
following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by April 30 of each year during Project 
implementation, or such later date as the Bank shall request, starting in the year 2003, the 
pertinent report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Section 3. 09.  The Borrower shall ensure that the institutional status, objectives, 
and public policies with respect to gender set forth in Decree No. 1426 and the principles 
contained in numerals 22
nd
 
and 23
rd
 
of
the Borrower’s Constitution, are maintained at all 
times during the implementation of the Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain within CNM a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project and Subprojects. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and the report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including as part of the 
information to be provided in such report, a management letter 
concerning CNM’s internal controls; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least three years after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
Page  10
-
9
-
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of 
said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than six months after the 
Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i)  
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a
Project Management Report for such period. 
Section 4.03.  For purposes of carrying out the evaluations referred to in Part C.3 
of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in the year 2002, hire consultants acceptable to the Bank; and 
(b) not later than March 31 of each year of Project implementation, starting in March 
2003, furnish the report of the corresponding evaluation by said consultants of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested with respect to those 
Page  11
-
10
-
Subprojects carried out during the calendar year prior to the date of presentation of said 
report. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Operational Manual has been approved by the 
Bank. 
Section 5.02. The date January 2, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Economía 
 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250, 5
o
piso 
 
1310
Buenos Aires 
 
Argentina 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA 
121950AR  
 
Page  12
-
11
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or  (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the Province of Buenos Aires, Argentina , as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/Roberto 
Lavagna 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/Axel 
van 
Trotsenburg 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods under Parts  
380,000 
100% of foreign 
 
A.3, B and C of the 
 
expenditures and 
 
Project 
 
50% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services and 
1,300,000 
100% 
 Training 
 
 
 
(3) 
Subprojects 
2,570,000 
100% of amounts 
 
disbursed 
 
(4) 
Refunding of Project  
500,000 
Amount due pursuant to 
 
Preparation Advance 
 
Section 2.02 (b) of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
50,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) Unallocated 
200,000
TOTAL 5,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
Page  15
-
14
-
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services) incurred by the Borrower to finance the transportation costs and 
per-diem of trainees, and rental of training facilities under the Project. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of :  
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of $ 500,000, 
may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Part A on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve months 
before the date of this Agreement; and  
 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (3) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Part A for each Grant unless the corresponding Grant Agreement 
has been executed by the parties thereto. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods costing 
$50,000 equivalent or less each to be procured under Part B.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement other than the first three contracts for goods to be procured under said 
Part B.2; (b) contracts for goods to be procured under Subprojects; (c) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; 
and (e) Training as set forth in Category (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Part A, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in the 
Banco de la Nación Argentina
,
a
special deposit account, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Page  16
-
15
-
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Project Management Reports. 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
Page  17
-
16
-
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawals or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  18
-
17
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equal to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to Eligible Categories minus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to said Categories, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
said Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Page  19
-
18
-
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
 
1. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report. 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the  Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, 
however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said 
Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the 
amount of $500,000. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to test and monitor a community social capital 
approach to address the vulnerability of the poor population in the Borrower’s territory 
by targeting families, as a comprehensive group of individuals, and promoting gender 
equity within said families. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Family Strengthening
1. 
Provision of technical assistance to Local Governments and Civil Society Groups 
to design Subprojects. 
2. 
Carrying out of a demand-driven community-based initiative program which 
consists of projects to address, 
inter alia
,
reproductive health, domestic violence, 
maternal/paternal responsibility, child welfare and educational support and cultural, 
recreational and environmental awareness, all for the purposes of promoting and 
strengthening the capacity of families (to benefit from said Subprojects) to actively 
function within their community. 
3. 
Strengthening of the institutional and operational capacity of Local Governments 
and Civil Society Groups which primarily demonstrate innovative approaches towards 
family strengthening and promote more equitable gender relations among family 
members, through the provision of technical assistance and training and the acquisition 
and utilization of goods required therefor. 
Part B
:
Gender and Community Awareness
Carrying out of a program which consists, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) promoting gender 
awareness and a cohesive relationship among family members on subjects such as 
parental responsibility, reproductive health choices and respect for non-traditional gender 
roles; and (b) implementing a communications strategy within the Borrower’s territory 
for the purposes of informing stakeholders with respect to the Project objective. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
Part C
:
Institutional Development
1. 
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance, of the capacity of 
the PIU to assist the CNM in the evaluation, monitoring and supervision of the Project, 
including the acquisition and utilization of goods. 
2. 
Implementation of a system to monitor and evaluate the carrying out of the 
Project. 
3. 
Carrying out of annual technical evaluations of the implementation of 
 
Subprojects. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
*
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
beginning April 15, 2007 
  
 
 
through October 15, 2016 
  
250,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods (other than goods to be procured under Subprojects) estimated to cost 
more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, using 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2. Shopping
Goods (other than goods to be procured under Subprojects) estimated to cost 
$50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$530,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international or national shopping procedures, at the Borrower’s option, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Community 
Participation
Goods and works under Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank, which procedures may include: 
 
(a) 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines;  
 
(b) 
procurement of works under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on 
the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
Page  25
-
24
-
written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully; and 
 (c) 
direct contracting, with the Bank’s prior agreement and in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods (other than goods to be procured 
under Subprojects) to be procured under Part B.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first three contracts for goods (other than goods to be 
procured under Subprojects) to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to 
in Part B.2 of this Section, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  26
-
25
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultan
ts’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Consultants’ services for Subprojects and specialized activities under the Project, 
as approved by the Bank, that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
Page  27
-
26
-
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000, the terms of reference 
and short list of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(d) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000, the terms of reference 
and short list of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. 
 
Page  28
-
27
-
WB76939 
M:\ARGENTIN\622 - PROFAM\LA 622.AR.doc 
October 10, 2002 2:42 PM
 
