                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                            Report No:ICR0000212




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-46400)




                                       ON A

                PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN


                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5.0 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA

                                      FOR A

 FAMILY STRENGTHENING AND SOCIAL CAPITAL PROMOTION PROJECT-
                                     PROFAM


                                    May 2, 2007




Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Sustainable Development Department Latin America and the Caribbean Region




                                         1

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          ( Exchange Rate Effective )
                          Currency Unit = Argentine Pesos
                 Argentina Peso .0.3238 = 1 US$
                              US$ 1.00 = Argentina Peso 3.088


                                  Fiscal Year
                        January 1 through December 31




                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
LIL    Learning and Innovation Loan

PROFAM Family Strengthening and Social Capital Promotion Project
UNDP   United National Development Programme




                        Vice President: Pamela Cox

                      Country Director: Axel van Trostsenburg

                       Sector Manager: Jaime Saavedra Chanduvi

                  Project Team Leader: Josefina Stubbs




                                       2

                                        Argentina
           PROFAM: Family Strengthening and Social Capital Promotion



                                       CONTENTS




1. Basic Information                                                     _IL1
2. Key Dates                                                             _IL2
3. Ratings Summary                                                       _IL3
4. Sector and Theme Codes                                                _IL5
5. Bank Staff                                                            _IL5
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                    _IL6
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                     _IL7
8. Assessment of Outcomes                                                _IL8
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                             _IL9
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                          _IL10
11. Lessons Learned                                                      _IL11
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners _IL12
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis                                      _IL13
Annex 2. Restructuring                                                   _IL14
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing                                     _IL15
Annex 4. Outputs by Component                                            _IL16
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis                                 _IL17
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes   _IL18
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance               _IL19
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Result                                       _IL20
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                         _IL21
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR         _IL22
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders       _IL23
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents                                   _IL24




                                             3

1. Basic Information
                                                                 PROFAM: Family
                                                                 Strengthening and
Country:              Argentina            Project Name:
                                                                 Social Capital
                                                                 Promotion
Project ID:           P070374              L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-46400
ICR Date:             10/18/2006           ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                 GOVT OF
Lending Instrument:   LIL                  Borrower:
                                                                 ARGENTINA
Original Total
                      USD 5.0M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 4.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category:C
Implementing Agencies


Consejo Nacional de La Mujer
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process            Date           Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                          Date(s)
Concept Review: 09/15/2000        Effectiveness:     11/26/2002      11/26/2002
Appraisal:       11/20/2000       Restructuring(s):
Approval:        11/13/2001       Mid-term Review: 04/11/2005        04/11/2005
                                  Closing:                           12/31/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                    Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                 Low/Negligible
Bank Performance:                            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                        Satisfactory




                                          4

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance        Indicators   QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
                                  Yes          Quality at Entry (QEA):         None
time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time
                                  Yes          Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None
(Yes/No):
DO rating before
                                  Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sub-national government administration                                 11                5
Other social services                                                  89               95
                                                         Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                   Primary           Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                        Secondary         Primary
Gender                                                    Primary           Primary
Other social development                                  Secondary         Primary
Population and reproductive health                        Secondary         Secondary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                            At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                                         Pamela Cox        David de Ferranti
                                                        Axel van
Country Director:                                                         Mirna Alexander
                                                        Trotsenburg
                                                        Jaime Saavedra
Sector Manager:                                                           Maria C.Correia
                                                        Chanduvi
                                                                          Maria-Valeria
Project Team Leader:                                    Josefina Stubbs
                                                                          Penna
ICR Team Leader:                                        Josefina Stubbs
ICR Primary Author:                                     Olympia Icochea




                                              5

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for
Bank assistance)
Country Background: Argentina has historically been among the Latin American countries
with high per capita incomes and education levels as well as low inequality. However, political
instability and economic downturns have contributed to slower growth rates and a rise in
inequality and poverty over time. In 1998, for example, the unemployment rate was 14.5%
and, according to the Bank's Poverty Assessment (2000), poverty and extreme poverty rates
reached 29.4 and 7.4%, respectively. In spite of being at the onset of the 2001-2003 economic
crisis, by the time the Family Strengthening and Social Capital Promotion Project (PROFAM)
was appraised in 2000, the country was already facing increasing poverty rates and high levels
of unemployment and underemployment, coupled with low wage levels for the lowest
quintiles. Besides further deteriorating the country's socio-economic indicators, the economic
crisis also had a negative effect on the institutional capacity of provincial governments which
are in charge of 85% of the public social expenditure and are responsible for providing key
social services and safety nets to the poor. Low coverage by both the central and provincial
governments' social assistance programs left a substantial share of the poor population without
any protection.

The economic crisis further deteriorated the social capital mechanisms available to the poor,
increasing their vulnerability. According to the World Bank Study on Social Capital in
Argentina1, in 2001 the lowest quintiles reported lower diversity and frequency of networking
compared to the highest quintiles. Among those in the poorest quintile, only about 33%
socialized with friends in contrast to almost 60% of those in the highest quintile. Furthermore,
the economic crisis strained families' cohesion as a result of altering the traditional roles of
family members. In response to the severe unemployment of male heads of households,
women and the youth had to insert themselves into the labor market. This situation generated
an increase in family conflicts leading to the deterioration of family cohesion, domestic
violence, and problems with depression, alcoholism and substantial abuse; particularly in men
as reported by a UNDP Study.2

Sector Background ­ Gender, Family & Poverty: Gender relations and cultural assumptions
are the notions that define families as social institutions. Socially assigned gender roles shape
relationships among family members, determining the behavioral expectations and socio-
economic opportunities offered to women and men both within and outside the home.
Differentiated gender roles are reflected, among other things, in: (i) decision-making within
the family regarding the allocation and use of time and financial resources; (ii) labor market
participation and opportunities for both women and men, as well as their income earning



1Argentina: Together We Stand, Divided We Fall. Levels and Determinants of Social Capital in Argentina.
Report N0 2481-AR. PREM. World Bank, May 31st, 2002.
2Equidad de Género en Argentina. Datos, Problemáticas y Orientaciones para la Acción. PNUD-Argentina.
2004.


                                                 6

potential; (iii) access to education and health resources; and (iv) the incidence of domestic
violence. Therefore, reshaping the socially assigned gender roles at the household level can
have an impact on social behavior (i.e. reducing the incidence of domestic violence) as well as
economic opportunities (i.e. increasing female labor force participation leading to increased
family incomes).

While Argentina's achievements in reducing gender gaps are noteworthy at the aggregate level,
there are important gender disparities among the poor, between urban and rural areas and
among geographical regions. Poor women tended to work less than their richer counterparts
and were more likely to be employed in the domestic service sector. Maternal mortality was
almost triple the national average in the provinces of Chaco, Formosa and Jujuy, and estimates
for clandestine abortions ­ one of the causes of maternal mortality ­ oscillated between
350,000 and 500,000. At the national level, teenage pregnancy was high and associated with
low educational levels ­ with only 50% of students completing the second grade. Female-
headed households had a greater likelihood of being poor and children in such households
were more likely to have lower educational levels and become poor themselves: 66% of
children aged 15-19 in female headed households were not in school, compared to the 51% of
children in male-headed households; 25% of school drop-outs from female-headed households
leave school with less than a minimum primary education, compared to less than 10% of drop-
outs from households headed by men; and, the probability of being poor was four times higher
for children under 20 years old, if she or he came from a female-headed household (Correia,
1999).

Recognizing that gender disparities exist in the country, the Government of Argentina
committed itself to developing a new social capital approach that promoted equal opportunities
for both women and men, and encouraged the notion of shared responsibilities as a foundation
for       a       cohesive       society.       The        ultimate        goal       of       the
Government's new approach was to incorporate a gender perspective into public policies,
social development programs and Bank-financed operations. In contrast to previous social
capital approaches, this new approach had as its cornerstone the reduction of gender disparities
among poor households. The Government's lack of experience in implementing this new
approach, coupled with the mixed results of Argentina's achievements in reducing gender
disparities, was the rationale for the development of a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)
that would test and monitor the implementation of this new social capital approach at a local
and decentralized level. Gender issues would be integrated in community based interventions
as a way of strengthening the social capital of poor families and reducing their social and
economic vulnerability.

The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Argentina, for fiscal years 2001-2004, focused on
the poor and promoted equitable and sustained growth through: (i) enhancing social
development, including poverty alleviation and human resource development; (ii) improving
the state's performance, particularly at the sub-national level; and (iii) consolidating structural
reforms. The CAS recommended a selective approach to poverty alleviation by focusing on
specific social themes and indicators, and promoting innovation in Bank instruments that
addressed the needs of vulnerable groups; especially in their delivery mechanisms. The LIL
was fully aligned with this approach because the family was envisioned as the unit for



                                             7

intervention and by looking to reduce gender disparities within the family, the LIL also
advocated for the public sector to stress the linkage between gender segregation and social and
economic opportunities. The LIL would be implemented by the National Council of Women
(CNM, its Spanish acronym), the agency responsible for mainstreaming gender in public
policy and programs, and would also work with local governments (LG) and community-based
organizations (CBO).

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

PROFAM's objective was to test and monitor a social capital approach that addressed the
vulnerability of the poor by targeting families as cohesive units and promoting gender equity.
To achieve this objective, the LIL was designed to be implemented in close collaboration with
LG, CBO and NGOs and support, monitor, and learn from: (i) initiatives that promoted
cohesive family practices (Programa Equidad); (ii) actions that fostered a more effective use
of community resources by strengthening linkages among neighboring families; (iii) actions
that captured the potential of community social capital by creating and/or strengthening civil
society organization networks; and (iv) the dissemination of best practice community
interventions.

Key performance indicators as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) included:
    · improved awareness among beneficiary families of the importance of gender equity
        and cohesive family practices as means of reducing their vulnerability;
    · improved awareness among beneficiary families participating in Programa Equidad of
        children's emotional needs and how to respond to these;
    · decrease in domestic violence episodes among beneficiary families participating in
        Programa Equidad;
    · improved evidence of responsible parenthood among beneficiary families, particularly
        an increase in the father's involvement in childcare and support and a decrease in
        teenage pregnancy; and
    · increase in the proportion of CBO and LG connected in civil society networks.


6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification
Not applicable.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)
The main project beneficiaries were poor Argentine families with a history of domestic
violence against women and children, teenage pregnancy, juvenile delinquency and/or
substance and alcohol abuse. PROFAM beneficiaries also included families living in areas
where there was a lack of access to reproductive health information and services; including
child care.     Other primary target groups were civil society organizations and local
governments that received capacity building and support for their family strengthening and
capital promotion initiatives. Lastly, the CNM was both the implementing agency and a



                                              8

beneficiary because it received technical assistance and capacity building support through
PROFAM's Institutional Development Component.


6.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Family Strengthening (US$ 4.27 million)
This component supported initiatives of community-based networks, LG and CBO that were
intended to promote equitable gender relationships within the family and expand community
social capital. This component consisted of the following sub-components:

(1) Programa Equidad: The principal activity carried out by PROFAM, Programa Equidad,
was a demand-driven grant program for small sub-projects that promoted and strengthened the
capacity of families to actively function within their communities. Sub-projects targeted poor
families with a history of domestic violence against women and children, teen pregnancy,
juvenile delinquency, and/or substance and alcohol abuse; these were predominately
implemented in poor areas where there was a lack of access to reproductive health information
andservices, including childcare. A detailed description of the sub-project eligibility criteria
and process is described below:

    · Eligibility: LG, CBO and other civil society groups were eligible to apply for grants,
       although preference was given to organizations with proven targeting mechanisms,
       technical experience in related themes, and demonstrated capacity and willingness to
       learn and be innovative. Specific eligibility criteria and procedures for LG and civil
       society organizations were detailed in the Operations Manual.

    · Themes: Due to the demand-driven nature of Programa Equidad, the Operations
       Manual included eligible themes rather than specific activities. Some examples of sub-
       project themes included reproductive health, domestic violence, maternal/paternal
       responsibility, rights and citizenship, child welfare and educational support, culture
       and recreation and environmental awareness. Ineligible themes included religious or
       political activities and major civil works.

    · Criteria: Sub-project proposals had to: (a) include a gender perspective that took into
       account the priorities of both women and men; (b) foster partnerships among LG, CBO
       and families in order to increase access, availability and utilization of resources; and
       (c) incorporate participatory decision-making processes with potential beneficiaries.
       Priority was given to proposals that met all three criteria. Technical assistance was
       provided for applicants that lacked experience in mainstreaming gender issues in their
       work, but demonstrated the capacity to achieve PROFAM's development objective.
       Small grant requests could not exceed US $30,000 and had to be matched with a
       minimum community contribution of 20%. Technical assistance for the preparation
       and implementation of the subprojects could be included in the proposal amount.

    · Selection: The CNM was responsible for ensuring that the proposals met the minimum
       technical criteria before they were presented to the evaluation and selection committee,
       comprised of external specialists that conducted the review and selection of grant
       proposals. The principal responsibilities of the committee included: (i) carrying out a


                                             9

        review of community sub-projects in compliance with project guidelines and eligibility
        criteria as defined in the Operations Manual; and (ii) assessing community
        participation in the identification, preparation and execution of sub-projects and the
        quality of technical assistance. The committee was also responsible for establishing the
        parameters for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of sub-projects.

(2) Social Capital Promotion: This sub-component supported the strengthening of existing
networks, LG, CBO and other civil society organizations through capacity building and
technical assistance and, in some instances, through the provision of basic equipment such as
computers or printers. The selection criteria and procedures for such activities were detailed in
the Operations Manual, and priority was be given to networks that demonstrated innovative
approaches to family strengthening and the promotion of equitable gender relations. Capacity
building activities for the organizations: (i) encouraged reciprocity among families, civil
society and governmental organizations and promoted an integrated approach to facilitate
collaboration among these; (ii) improved the participation of families and other stakeholders in
the design, management and monitoring of community-based initiatives; and (iv) strengthened
the administrative capacity of such organizations.

Component 2: Gender and Community Awareness (US$1.21 million)
The objective of this component was to raise awareness of the importance of equitable gender
relations within the family through communication strategies that relationships among
families, local governments and civil society and community organizations; particularly
related to reproductive health choices, decision-making, parental responsibility and respect for
non-traditional gender roles among youth and children. The communication strategy was
designed to: (i) disseminate best practice community interventions; (ii) promote an increased
understanding about gender issues and the rights of children among critical stakeholder
groups; (iii) encourage the active participation of families in the definition of their own
priorities as well as in the evaluation of social programs from which they benefited; and (iv)
increase awareness of the benefits of working in alliances or partnership networks.

Component 3: Institutional Development (US$1.20 million)
This component built upon the existing project management capacity of the Project
Implementing Unit (PIU) within the CNM by providing technical assistance and capacity
building for PIU staff and consultants. Specifically, this component financed: (i) consultants
that supported the technical and administrative implementation of the project; (ii)capacity
building for PIU staff and consultants; (iii) the design and implementation of a monitoring and
evaluation system, including the baseline and performance indicators; (iv) project audits; and
(v) equipment (computers, printers, software etc) necessary for project implementation.

6.6 Revised Components
Not applicable

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)
The project experienced three relevant changes that affected its scope, funding allocations and



                                             10

schedule:

1. 1. Increase in funds & reallocation of loan proceeds: in December 2001 the Government
abandoned the convertibility plan whereby the peso had been interchangeable with the dollar
at par. As a consequence the peso was devaluated to one third of its previous value and this
resulted in a threefold increased of loan funds in pesos. CNM took this opportunity to increase
the number of subprojects to be financed by the Programa Equidad and the Social Capital
Fund from the original target of 100 sub-projects established in the PAD, to142 sub-projects.
It also increased outreaching efforts towards other governmental programs through seminars,
workshops and meetings. These changes were instrumented through a reallocation of loan
proceeds for a total amount of US$1.2 million in December 2004 out of categories 1, 2, 4 and
6 into category 3 ­ Subprojects.

2. Extension of closing date: the LIL's closing date was extended for a total period of 1.5
years (from June 30, 2005 to June 30, 2006 and from June 30, 2006 to December 2006). The
main reason for the delay in project implementation was the 2001 crisis, which implied
successive changes in administrations which affected the project, as well as a virtual paralysis
in disbursements during 2002. Additional time was also required to implement the larger
number of subprojects incorporated, to allow beneficiaries executing sub-projects to present
their accounting and technical reports, and to make adjustments to the LIL's evaluation
arrangements (such as reconstructing the baseline and integrating the new operational
approach of the subproject's second round)



7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)
Although the LIL was prepared in three months, it was well conceived in terms of its
relevance to the country's development approach and the Bank's assistance strategy. Project
design and implementation benefited from: (i) an understanding that the project would be a
learning and innovation loan and that the design would not be complex; (ii) the integration of
lessons learned from other social interventions; and, (iii) the participatory approach used
throughout the project identification, preparation and implementation process. These are
described below:

    · PROFAM was conceptualized and designed as a learning and innovation loan. This
        was the basis for the project to: (a) integrate an innovative gender approach into public
        social interventions by enhancing intra-family and family and community
        relationships; (b) decentralize project implementation to LG and CBO; (c) develop a
        participatory monitoring and evaluation system in which beneficiaries' concerns were
        included and considered as project impact and performance indicators; (d) build the
        CNM's capacity to design, implement and evaluate a demand-driven grant program;
        and (e) sensitize and mainstream a gender and family approach into CBOs, NGOs and
        LG community development activities. PROFAM's simple design concentrated most
        of the efforts and resources, 64% of total costs, in the first component, Family



                                               11

       Strengthening.

    · Support from a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) grant helped develop the bases for
       project design. PPF funds were used to carry out a social study and a stakeholder's
       consultation. In addition, a PHRD grant on gender and capacity building established in
       1999 contributed to lay the basis of the CNM's analytical work on domestic and
       international knowledge and intervention experiences on family and gender. These
       actions enhanced the CNM's capacity to design and implement the project
       components. The project's scope was therefore aligned with the institutional capacity
       in the country. It promoted partnerships between the public and private sectors (CBO
       and academia), and ensured a synergic exchange of knowledge and skills between
       these two actors; which benefited project implementation and evaluation.

    · The project design also took into account the findings of studies on gender-based
       violence (see section 6.1 for references), a comprehensive and qualitative social
       assessment that included field visits and a social capital survey undertaken by Bank
       staff in the country office.. Both the study and the survey confirmed the relevance of
       introducing a gender approach in the project.

    ·    A participatory approach was adopted both in the project identification and
       preparation phases. Both the CNM and the Bank project preparation team carried out a
       consultation process with potential beneficiaries to learn from existing experiences
       with community-based family interventions. Important lessons were drawn from this
       experience and incorporated into the Operations Manual, including targeted
       beneficiaries, eligibility, project activities, potential demand for Programa Equidad,
       costs of sub-projects and appropriate institutional mechanisms.


Notwithstanding the thorough information gathering process carried out during the preparation
phase, in retrospect, the PAD could have benefited from more in-depth discussions to clarify
the project's overall conceptual approach and strengthen the alignment of the project
development objective with the performance indicators. The PAD deals with a number of key
social concepts without specifying their operational links and implications in terms of
mainstreaming, regulations and enforcement, among other things. As included in the PAD, the
selected performance indicators refer more to measure the results of the intervention rather
than to the project's overall learning objective. Nevertheless, the final project evaluation
prepared by the government helps correct this misalignment by detailing the methodologies
that were used to integrate a gender approach into the sub-projects, identifying which
methodologies and tools worked best and identifying best practice interventions.

Similarly, although the project accurately identified potential implementation risks, some of
the mitigation measures were rather limited in that they did not include all risk factors. For
example, the PAD recommended that ownership be developed within the beneficiaries in case
the CNM did not remain committed to the project's innovative conception; yet the PAD did
not address the necessary conditions to foster ownership. In addition to the abovementioned,
the PAD could not foresee the extent of the risks posed by the economic crisis that was on the
onset at the time of loan negotiations in October 2001. As explained in the next section, these



                                            12

risks materialized and affected project implementation.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)
PROFAM was to be implemented in three years with original effectiveness and closing dates
envisaged for January 2002 and June 2005, respectively. Instead, the project implementation
period lasted for five years, with the first disbursement being made in February 2003; more
than a year after the estimated project effectiveness date. As discussed below, multiple factors
explained the need for a longer implementation period.

In December 2001, two months after the loan's signature, a severe economic crisis triggered a
major political and institutional upheaval that included the resignation of President De La Rúa.
There was a succession of interim presidents, a default on public debt and parity between the
peso and the dollar was abandoned. GDP fell by 11% in 2002, bringing the overall growth
decline since 1998 to around 20%, and unemployment rose to 20%; by early 2004, 50% of the
population was estimated to be living in poverty. This crisis led to delays in declaring the
project effective for over a year after loan approval in November 2001. The GOA also faced
serious budget constraints during the crisis, which limited the availability of counterpart funds.
However, PPF resources were used to launch the project. In spite of these setbacks, the
project's objective became even more relevant given the increased poverty levels as a result of
the crisis. This was confirmed by the sheer volume of responses to the first call for sub-project
proposals in December 2002. There were 1,600 proposals of which 329 were selected to be
reviewed by the evaluation committee.

The change in government in May 2003 also interrupted project implementation. When
PROFAM was prepared and approved, the CNM was a stand-alone institution, linked only to
the Presidency. When the Kirchner administration came into office, however, the CNM
became part of the Council of Social Policy led by the Ministry of Social Development and
this new council required a review of all 329 sub-projects that were pre-selected in the first
call for proposals. They also raised the qualification standards for grant eligibility, resulting in
all but 32 of the sub-projects that had been previously selected to be re-categorized as
ineligible for funds because of methodological problems and incomplete documentation.
Furthermore, the gender mainstreaming approach included in each sub-project was carefully
scrutinized to ensure that it was responding to the needs of both men and women within the
family dynamics, and, therefore, would not introduce tension within the family as a result of
changing women's roles. The project team worked closely with the LG, CBO and NGOs that
submitted sub-projects that were reclassified as ineligible, and at the end a total of 153 sub-
projects of the originally 329, were financed from the first call for proposals; these were
implemented in 2003- 2004.

Another factor that delayed project implementation was the substantial learning curve of both
the CNM --to monitor and provide adequate technical assistance-- and of the CBO and LG
--to meet the criteria and requirements for grant eligibility. In addition, grant awardees had
serious problems in submitting all the required auditing documentation on time. This situation
caused the CNM to devote more human and financial resources to ensuring that sub-project
implementing agencies met the eligibility criteria and submitted all necessary documentation,


                                              13

and slowed down both the signing process and the disbursement of funds. To overcome this
limitation, the CNM hired additional personnel experienced in community project
management and providing technical assistance to organizations. The CNM also made
changes in the eligibility requirements for selecting proposals and introduced ex-ante training
for the organizations interested in presenting proposals to the two funds for the second call of
proposals. The role of the Bank was crucial in supporting the CNM in identifying mechanisms
to address limitations within the organizations. Among the Bank's main recommendations was
the provision of guidelines that while in keeping with the principles detailed in the Operations
Manual, allowed flexibility in order to accelerate the implementation of sub-projects, tailor on-
site technical assistance to address particular problems faced by the organizations and
changing specific procedures that were constraining the implementation of sub-projects.

Due to the effects of the political and financial crisis during the first years of project
implementation, the Bank downgraded the project's outcome rating to Unsatisfactory for the
period December 2003 ­ April 2005. It also increased two risk ratings: Government support
to the CNM for its gender equity agenda and the timely provision of grant funds. However, the
Government's request for a reallocation of funds at the end of 2004 was a clear indication of
its commitment to continue with the project and implementation improved in the following
years.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design: The development of a participatory M&E system was planned for the beginning
of project implementation. The main objectives of the system were to analyze the
implementation of sub-project and provide evidence that would allow public agencies and
organizations to learn from the implementation and results of this new approach.
Additionally, at the request of the Ministry of Finance, the M&E system would detail the cost
effectiveness of sub-projects. To achieve these objectives, the M&E system: (i) followed the
project's logical framework, including its outputs and impact indicators; (ii) integrated data
from other sources such as sector surveys and studies; and, (iii) included beneficiary
evaluations and consultations with civil society groups through the Forum for Civil Society.

Testing would be done through control groups in comparison with a baseline: (i) LG versus
CBO; (ii) local-based approaches versus centralized approaches; (iii) family approach versus
sectoral approach; and (iv) gender equity approach versus approaches that accept traditional
roles. The CNM, with support from women's provincial offices, would have primary
responsibility for project supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and the preparation of
operational reports, a mid-term evaluation report prepared at the end of the first year and
disseminated to civil society, and an impact evaluation report to be produced at the end of the
third year and consist of results from the beneficiary assessment and main lessons learned; this
last report would be disseminated among federal and local governments and civil society.

M&E Implementation: The CNM developed an effective and participatory monitoring and
evaluation system, yet somewhat different from the original design of the PAD. The CNM
teamed-up technical and financial specialists to conduct monitoring activities and to provide
technical assistance for sub-projects.. These activities were conducted in a systematic way and



                                            14

counted with a set of different operation and reporting mechanisms, such as activity-planning
sheets, logbooks, regular inter-sectoral staff meetings, supervision missions, sub-project status
reports and back-to office reports. The results from evaluations of the implementation of
project activities provided feedback for subsequent activities. For example, the findings of the
evaluation of the first call for proposals determined that there was a need to reform the
guidelines and eligibility requirements and to provide technical assistance to prospective
applicants before the second call for proposals. Other results of the M&E system led to the
provision of tailored and on-site technical assistance to the organizations and to the revision of
financial and accounting manuals that simplified administrative procedures; this proved
crucial for the success of the sub-projects. Also, as planned in the PAD, the M&E followed a
participatory approach. In addition to monitoring and evaluating LG and CBO operations,
different events where organized to get direct feedback from the beneficiaries. The best
examples were the Regional Meetings, which were a venue to exchange experiences on the
sub-project operations and results among the project staff, the organizations and the
beneficiaries. In addition to the valuable feedback on sub-projects, participants were more
empowered as a result of the exchange and discussion of their experiences.

The CNM was not able to produce an impact evaluation as indicated in the PAD, nor to
establish a baseline. First, funding delays and the staggered launch of sub-projects caused
these to be implemented in different points in time, thus restricting the possibility of making
comparisons with control groups. Second, it was not possible to control for external effects
because the long term outcomes for project beneficiaries could not be known. Third, in the
second call for proposals, the CNM required all implementing agencies for sub-projects to
have local addresses. That stipulation not only excluded large organizations that were based in
Buenos Aires, but also limited the possibility of making comparisons between organizations,
provinces and calls for proposals.

In spite of these problems, the CNM performed an evaluation study for the last year and a half
of the project to evaluate its performance, extract lessons learned and obtain a beneficiary
evaluation. This study was carried out by a group of national universities, in different
Argentinean provinces, which had previously participated in the selection of proposals in the
second phase of May-September 2004. The evaluation focused on whether the project
achieved its objectives in terms of testing gender mainstreaming into social capital
interventions and the relevance and effectiveness of the same. The study employed three
different types of instruments: a survey applied to the organizations' coordinators and a socio-
demographic and focus group survey applied to a sample of PROFAM beneficiaries. This
evaluation has produced useful results included in the outcomes assessment of this ICR. (See
annex 8 for further details)

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)
The Indigenous People Safeguard was the only safeguard applicable to the project. As
indicated in the PAD, the project would coordinate with the Argentina Indigenous Community
Development LIL. These two projects were operated simultaneously, had the same operational
mechanisms (i.e., demand-driven approach) and were overseen by the Ministry of Social
Development. Even though there was not a formal Indigenous Peoples' Development Plan



                                                15

(IPDP) the project did reach out and included indigenous families and communities, given that
several sub-projects were implemented in areas with a high concentration of indigenous
peoples. For example, in the province of Formosa, a sub-project helped strengthen four
associations of artisan indigenous women and helped consolidate the artisan networking at the
departmental level. Similarly, the Instituto Nacional de Asuntos Indigenas (INAI), the
government institution in charge of indigenous affairs, was involved in the production of
educational material used in indigenous communities. Furthermore, indigenous organizations
were encouraged to join regional networks, such as in the Puna region, so they could fully
participate in the project capacity building program and receive technical assistance in the
preparation and implementation of sub-projects. It is apparent that the lack of an IPDP was
not an impediment for including indigenous communities in the project.

Financial management was satisfactory throughout the project's duration. The Borrower
respected the relevant loan financial covenants by submitting quarterly financial monitoring
reports and annual audit reports in a timely manner. While some of the audit opinions include
a single qualification regarding the misclassification of some expenditures among
disbursements categories in the early project years, this issue was sorted out before the project
closing date and necessary adjustments were made.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)
Sustainability is reflected in: (i) the operational arrangements made by the CNM to maintain
the gender and family approach and methodologies in their work program and mainstream
these into the work of other ministries; and, (ii) the strengthening of institutional capacities
within LG, CBO and NGOs and their willingness to continue using the approach tested in
PROFAM.

The CNM was not only committed to supporting the project's results, but it is already
applying its principle and methodologies in the social protection programs that are currently
carried out by the Ministry of Social Development, including the: Programa Familias por la
Inclusión Social (Social Inclusion Family Program); Plan Nacional de Seguridad Alimentaria
(National Plan of Food Security); and, Plan Manos a la Obra (Local Development and Social
Economy Plan.) These programs have evolved from an individual focus ­ welfare approach in
which the beneficiary had a passive role ­ to a family-focused empowerment approach.

Furthermore, as indicated by the CNM in its project implementation report3, implementing
PROFAM activities has strengthened CNM's work on mainstreaming gender into main social
policies and the application of new legislation on reproductive health, domestic violence and
the elimination of all forms of discrimination in productive activities ( i.e., access to credit) at
both the sector and local level.

PROFAM's gender mainstreaming approach has also been included into several institutional
agreements with other sector ministries as well as in regulations or laws. For example, the
CNM reached an agreement with the Ministry of Defense to provide training to the police on
how to understand and handle domestic violence cases, and how to introduce gender equity


                                              16

principles into the agency's personnel code of conduct. The approach has helped the Ministry
of Health enhance its treatment protocols for reproductive health and eating disorders by
providing its staff with information regarding the relationship between family dynamics and
these diseases, as well as gender issues involved in them. The CNM is now planning to design
a protocol for assistance to domestic violence victims based on experiences from PROFAM
sub-projects in this area. The protocol would establish standards and parameters for
government agencies mandated to respond to domestic violence related issues.

The LG, CBO and NGOs that participated in PROFAM sub-projects perceived themselves as
being more competent in integrating gender issues into their social capital programs and
interventions. They reported to have gained new skills ranging from project planning and
implementation, to financial and project management skills. Beneficiaries also confirmed the
expansion or consolidation of working relationships with other organizations and local
governments; thus, expanding their possibilities to take advantage of new services or new
opportunities. Many of the CBOs that participated in PROFAM are currently working in
existing social protection programs; integrating PROFAM's gender approach through training
and technical assistance to beneficiaries (women and families).

8. Assessment of Outcomes


8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
PROFAM's objectives were relevant when the LIL was designed, and became even more
relevant as Argentina went through a crisis in which poverty and unemployment increased in
the short time; with individuals feeling deprived and highly vulnerable in comparison to others
or to their past situation. The role of women and youth also changed as a result of being
obliged to insert themselves into the labor market to ensure the material and emotional
survival of their families. At present, PROFAM's objectives are relevant for both the current
Government's social development strategy and the Bank's CAS. A new development agenda
has emerged in response to the country's sustained economic recovery, in which the approach
and methodologies for social policies are being transformed. The Government is transitioning
from traditional assistance programs that were essential in the aftermath of the 2001 crisis, to
those that aim either to reintegrate their beneficiaries into the labor market (through education,
credit, training and active employment policies) or, to address drastic destitution through
conditional cash transfer that are linked to families' investments in education and health. The
Bank is supporting those efforts through a Heads of Household Transition Project (Loan No.
P383). The social inclusion pillar of the 2006 CAS purports to support the Government's
efforts to establish permanent safety nets and foster employment. PROFAM's objectives and
its connection with poor families fit very well with this new strategy; given its potential to
build skills and competences at the family level through integrating gender equity principles
(e.g., access of men and women to reproductive health, criminalization and penalization of
domestic violence, equal pay, availability of early childhood facilities, support to female heads
of households, etc.) and increasing social networks. As mentioned above, the GOA through
different social development programs is working with PROFAM beneficiary organizations to
provide training and technical assistance on integrating a gender approach into family



                                                17

empowerment actions.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 4)
PROFAM's overriding objective ­ to test and monitor a social capital approach to address
the vulnerability of the poor by targeting families as comprehensive units and promoting
gender equity ­ was achieved. The project was able to: (i) test a gender mainstreaming
approach through the implementation of 221 sub-projects carried out by CBO, NGO and LG;
(ii) learn important lessons regarding the implementation of social capital building
interventions that included a gender approach; (iii) contribute to the development of
innovative ways of reducing the vulnerability of poor families; and, (iv) enhance institutional
development and learn how to effective integrate gender issues into social policy so as to
ensure sustainability and achieve the most progress. PROFAM also increased the proportion
of CBO and LG connected to civil society networks, a foundation for community social
capital. All this was achieved in spite of the national crisis that took place at the beginning of
project implementation.

In terms of activities and outputs, 221 sub-projects were financed under the first component,
and were carried out by 200 CBO and NGOs and 41 LG. The sub-projects benefited 49,109
individuals directly and indirectly (80% women and 20% men) across all of the country's
provinces. Working along ten thematic areas ­ domestic violence, reproductive health,
responsible fatherhood and motherhood, rights and citizenship, culture and recreation,
environment, resilience, rural development, tourism, production-oriented activities ­ the sub-
projects provided either training, technical assistance, equipment or support for the
construction of small infrastructure. The majority of the sub-projects (81.2%) were
implemented by heterogeneous groups made up of both women and men. Over half of the
organizations (63.4%) employed multiple methodologies and activities to integrate the gender
equity approach. For example, a standard sub-project working in production-oriented activities
included several productive activities t (i.e. arts and crafts, orchards, animal husbandry) and
provided orientation seminars on reproductive health issues, domestic violence, responsible
parenthood, nutrition, and alcoholism and drug abuse. The seminars were held once a month
and included lectures and theatrical performances, among other techniques. Technical
assistance on productive activities was provided on-site with the assistance of professionals in
the area that guided the group (for more examples see Annex 4.)

Additionally, under the second component, 13 communication campaigns and 6 regional
meetings with heads of households participating in the sub-projects were carried out, and a set
of videos and other publication material that were part of the communication strategy were
prepared.

Main Outcomes:

(i) Lessons from testing and monitoring a gender approach into community development
/social capital programs:
According to the CNM's evaluation report, 89.7% of the participating organizations found that
working with both men and women facilitated gender mainstreaming in the sub-projects and a


                                                18

better understanding of gender roles and behaviors. The organizations reported that
mainstreaming gender was more challenging in certain themes than in others. The
organizations with sub-projects that focused exclusively on reproductive health, domestic
violence, responsible fatherhood and motherhood or rights and citizenship themes declared
that they had more leverage to understand and integrate gender equity approaches and
concepts and that therefore, they were more effective in achieving their objectives. In contrast,
the organizations that worked with rural development or production-oriented activities, culture
and recreation, environment and resilience themes, noted that they faced more restrictions in
mainstreaming gender and retaining participants in the different activities, thus, their actions
were less effective. The organizations also noted that the group dynamics-based methodology
was the best approach because it gave project beneficiaries a space to interact and
communicate with each other. The use of learning tools that were outside the norm ­ for
example, theatrical performances and use didactic material based on pictures ­ was also
viewed positively by the organizations because these facilitated the understanding of concepts
and messages.

Another result of testing a gender approach into community development interventions was a
better notion of the families' demands for interventions. Domestic violence was the theme
most requested by women (12,163) and the second in line requested by men (2,417), while
reproductive health raised the same interest from both sexes. Furthermore, the beneficiaries
requested particular subjects in each of the themes offered by the organizations; to which they
had to respond with additional training. For instance, in the domestic violence theme, 50.8%
of the organizations had to provide training in legal advice for victims, 32.8% in domestic
violence detection, and 26.2% in establishing and management shelters for victims. The
organizations that worked in the domestic violence theme also found that there was an
important presence of domestic violence victims within their beneficiaries ­ 42% of the
beneficiaries in the metropolitan areas or 3,317 individuals ­ which conditioned them to
implement tailored interventions to address this problem.

Organizations that collaborated with professionals from other areas, expanded their outreach
through the formation of promoters and conducted ex-ante planning exercises to address
domestic violence, reported better results. Over half of the organizations reported that the time
needed to prepare a promoter was at least six months, and there was more demand from the
promoter to have the role of facilitator between the beneficiary and the specialist.

(ii) Perceived effects of the sub-projects by the beneficiaries:
According to the beneficiary evaluations, PROFAM's approach and methodologies proved to
be effective in reducing the family's vulnerability by empowering women, sensitizing men on
their own stakes in gender equity, increasing women's participation and decision-making in
their interaction with the labor market and provision of public services (i.e., health, judicial),
introducing self-awareness mechanisms for identifying violent attitudes and practices, and
expanding family networks. PROFAM, therefore, generated behavioral changes within the
participating families. Given the lack of a baseline and inability to conduct a rigorous impact
evaluation, the project's final evaluation included only beneficiary qualitative evaluations.
For each of the 213 sub-projects evaluated, 10 to 15 beneficiaries were interviewed using the
focus group modality. The evaluation also included a survey of organizations, and this



                                              19

included questions regarding the performance of the implementing agency, the CNM. The
sample of beneficiaries included 3,195 beneficiaries. The questions asked in the focus groups
were designed to gauge their perceptions of the impact of the sub-projects, specifically on
whether they had acquired new skills or had any behavioral changes with regards to their
families and communities as a result of participating or benefiting from the same. The table
below presents a summary of the main outcomes of the subprojects for selected thematic
themes. A socio-economic survey of beneficiaries was also carried out as part of the final
evaluation.

Table: Subprojects' Outcomes according to the Beneficiaries
 Activities                                           Selected Outcomes/Women's Quotes
 Most PROFAM subprojects integrated a gender          " ...the dialogue permitted to break our fears."
 approach using a methodology based on group
 dynamics. Their objective was to reduce women's      Women reported to have become familiar, and
 isolation and make them more aware of the need to    comfortable in a group to share their concerns and day-
 share their concern with others.                     to-day issues. As a result some reported to be working
                                                      in establish in local Women's Associations.
 The PROFAM subprojects on rights and citizenship     "We learned to meet for work; we really needed to get
 and production oriented activities aimed at helping  out of their homes; we now demand respect from our
 women to enhance their skills, their capacity to     partners."
 generate income and more important their self-       - Men and other family members started to accept to
 esteem.                                              take care of the children so that women could go the
                                                      meetings.
                                                      -Some women started dealing themselves with
                                                      administrative procedures required by public agencies.
                                                      -Other women individually and as groups started their
                                                      own productive ventures.
 The PROFAM subprojects on responsible                "The time with the psychologist helped me to
 parenthood and motherhood and child rearing          understand my children's behavior and to modify some
 pursued to improve families' relations by            of my violent conducts"
 understanding members' roles and position.           - Women started to acknowledge their own violent
                                                      practices when interacting with their children.
                                                      - Parents' communication with their children improved,
                                                      particularly on subjects they found initially difficult
                                                      such as sex and drugs.
                                                      - Some teenage mothers reported to have returned to
                                                      school to complete their education.
 The PROFAM subprojects on reproductive health        "Many guys asked a lot about the condom [during the
 aimed at enhancing beneficiaries' knowledge on       workshops.] I was also embarrassed to talk, but later I
 gender and reproductive health. Many of the          got more comfortable....My siblings refused to join me
 subprojects were targeted to youth population.       at the beginning, but later they came."
                                                       - Women got more information about their rights;
                                                      possibilities to plan their families; and, to make
                                                      decisions on their sexual life.
                                                      --Youngsters have increased their knowledge on
                                                      reproductive health and are keeping their role as
                                                      disseminators of this knowledge to their peers.
 The PROFAM domestic violence subprojects had as      "My husband is an alcoholic, but he has to respect me
 their main objectives to train and sensitize the     now and my decisions."
 population on domestic violence and enhance          - Both men and women declared to know now the
 women's access to all the agencies dealing with it.  "violence cycle" so they are able prevent getting into it
                                                      - Beneficiaries established and maintained a local
                                                      network including municipalities to advice and act on



                                                    20

                                                 domestic violence episodes.
                                                 - There is more knowledge on the services and
                                                 resources provided by the government to help women
                                                 to deal with domestic violence.

Social capital at the local level has also been enhanced by both the strengthening and
expansion of networks and the socializing activities included in the sub-projects. Sixty percent
of the 213 organizations evaluated declared that as a result of project activities, they have
connected with other NGOs, 51% with local governments and 46% with provincial units.
Also, 49% of the NGOs that participated in the project exchanged experiences and consulted
with LG, and 61% with other NGOs.

According to the beneficiaries, working in groups made them realize the benefits of sharing
their problems and frustrations with their peers, enhancing their capacity to understand the
roots of their problems and discuss options for addressing them. The realization of these
benefits also allowed them to replicate this experience with other members of their community
and, thus, introduced an alternative mechanism for social action. In an effort to disseminate
and provide a wider access to this type of methodology and its benefits, the CNM produced a
set of ten DVDs in which the sub-project beneficiaries shared their problems in the discussions
held as part of the project activities. Two of the DVDs were aired in national television; all the
DVDs are reportedly being used by non-governmental organizations working on gender and
poverty related issues.

(iii) Other outcomes:
PROFAM's gender and community awareness activities, combined with the systematization
of Programa Equidad's experiences also resulted in the formulation or regulation of policies
and important laws that foster gender equity in crucial sectors. The role of the CNM in the
regulation of the Reproductive Law is the best example. The CNM has filled an important gap
in reproductive health issues by providing a unifying framework for addressing the
reproductive health needs of individuals, families and communities. Gender equity principles
are now present in major policies and programs such as labor regulation, education laws,
public employment norms and financial programs for micro enterprise development.
Additionally, the CNM has made agreements with other sector agencies to mainstream gender
into their operations through technical assistance and training. PROFAM not only tested and
monitor a gender mainstreaming and social capital approach, but paved the way for this
approach to be systematized and in social protection programs currently being carried out by
the Ministry of Social Development.



8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
An efficiency assessment does not apply to the evaluation of this LIL. No economic or
financial analysis was conducted in the design phase, as these were not compulsory in a LIL
operation.




                                             21

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: SATISFACTORY
PROFAM satisfactorily achieved its overriding objective, and is still relevant in the current
country context. First and foremost, it tested and monitored a gender mainstreaming and social
capital strengthening approach nationwide that benefited 49,109 individuals. Second,
beneficiaries report that this approach enhanced women's and men's knowledge and skills in
gender equity, changed their relationship dynamics and expanded their networks; thus, having
a positive effect in reducing their vulnerability. By raising awareness of gender equity through
communication strategies, the LIL also reinforced the sub-projects' efforts to balance gender
roles and responsibilities at the family level. Although the PROFAM's economic benefits
could not be estimated, the fact that a five million dollar LIL benefited 38,956 women and
10,053 men and 221 organizations suggests high cost effectiveness. Furthermore, project
lessons are being applied in existing social development programs, which look to empower
families rather than just providing social assistance. The CNM is also enhancing the
methodologies developed under PROFAM to ensure that the policies, laws and regulations
that have already integrated gender equity are being enforced.



8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty reduction was not a principal project goal. However, all the sub-projects targeted poor
families; this was measured by unsatisfied basic needs indicators and the poverty line. The
beneficiary surveys confirmed that 45% of PROFAM beneficiaries were receiving some type
of social assistance from the GOA and 37% of them declared that they could only afford to
buy food if they received credits from the GOA. Also, 55% of the beneficiaries belonged to
households with five members or more. Thus, by supporting the empowerment of poor
families, PROFAM did contribute to an enhancement of opportunities for both women and
men to escape poverty.

PROFAM provided a new approach to addressing social development issues by providing the
GOA with proof of the feasibility and effectiveness of introducing a gender dimension when
assisting families and promoting the consolidation and expansion of community networks.
Working with a gender and social capital approach allowed the sector to understand the
positive effects of reducing gender disparities and how this can help strengthen relationships
with the family unit; the benefits of targeting women given their active role in securing their
family's well-being; and, the effectiveness of social networks in enhancing family members'
opportunities, which can potentially reduce their dependency on social welfare programs.



(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

PROFAM promoted valuable institutional changes and strengthening at various levels.


                                               22

    · It was the first experience in Argentina where gender mainstreaming together with
       strengthening of social capital was tested as a mechanism to reduce the vulnerability of
       poor families at a local level. Given the project's positive results, the country now
       counts with validated methodologies to address gender disparities within the family;
       benefiting poor families in particular. As mentioned above, the Ministry of Social
       Development is now using the methodologies tested and used by organizations that
       participated in PROFAM to enhance the effectiveness of its own social development
       programs.

    · By having the Council of Social Policy as its most important stakeholder during
       project implementation, the CNM strengthened its capacity to mainstream the project's
       findings into sector policies.        It also developed knowledge and skills needed to
       decentralize operations and establish public-private partnerships.

    · Local governments have also been strengthened and empowered. Before PROFAM,
       only 40 percent of them had experience in mainstreaming gender issues in their local
       development programs. Now, not only are they familiar with how to mainstream
       gender issues and strengthening social capital, but they have established networks with
       civil society organizations, other local governments and sector agencies.

    · All the organizations that participated in the project have benefited institutionally,
       including their functioning, internal cohesion and capacity to implement activities and
       manage funds. Moreover, the networks established between organizations have helped
       strengthen the country's social fabric.

    · PROFAM also helped family members reexamine issues of identity and empowerment
       while integrating gender equity principles. These elements are crucial for enhancing
       the family's capacity to manage its problems and seek alternatives to address them.



(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
    · The project provided a holistic approach to mainstreaming gender issues, while
       working as part of the social development domain ­ the Council of Social Policy ­
       rather than being confined in a single institution with the added risk of having an
       effective but disconnected program.

    · Although the project was not designed to be part of the Government package of the
       emergency social policies during the crisis, it was flexible enough to incorporate the
       needs of those affected by the economic crisis by supporting productive sub-projects.



8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
A survey of beneficiaries was carried out as part of the final evaluation. For each of the 213
sub-projects evaluated, 10 to 15 beneficiaries were interviewed using the focus group
modality. The evaluation also included a survey of organizations, and this included questions



                                                23

regarding the performance of the implementing agency, CNM. The surveys results have been
used to document the project outcomes, and the results revealed that technical assistance and
supervision of CNM to the CBOs and NGOs were very satisfactory or satisfactory in 78.4% of
the cases. The support offered on accounting and financial related issues was considered
satisfactory or better only in 45% of the cases. The beneficiaries' accounts of the project's
performance are summarized in section 8.2.



9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Modest
The long-term sustainability of the LIL outcomes is evidenced by:

     · Validation of the methodologies used by multiple stakeholders, including the Ministry
         of Social Development which is applying them in their social development programs.
     · Dissemination of the methodologies by CNM through print and audio-visual materials
         to government agencies, local governments and CBO.
     · Increased capacity of participating organizations and their continued use of
         PROFAM's methodologies.
     · Enhanced knowledge and skills within the Ministry of Social Development's strategy
         and policies in how to mainstream gender into sub-projects that promote and
         strengthen the capacity of families to actively function within their communities.
     · Increased capacity within the CNM to dialogue with sector programs regarding gender
         mainstreaming.
     · Increased awareness of project beneficiaries the importance of gender equity and
         cohesive family practices

However, it is not clear that a plan will be in place to guarantee the expansion and
consolidation of the activities and the implementation of this approach. Moreover, as
expressed by many PROFAM beneficiaries, despite their willingness to continue working with
this approach, they require continued technical assistance and financial resources to make this
possible. Even though the social protection programs are indeed incorporating many of the
organizations that were part of the PROFAM LIL, others have been left out; and this could
lead to a missed opportunity to capitalize on the knowledge gained by the PROFAM and the
beneficiaries. Other organizations that expressed interest in participating in PROFAM
activities, but could not participate due to a range of factors, have been disadvantaged.



10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating:


Rating:     SATISFACTORY



                                              24

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the LIL was
satisfactory. It identified the windows of opportunities for a real learning and innovation
process by introducing a new social policy approach. PROFAM's consistency with the GOA's
development priorities and the Bank's CAS was assured. Technical assistance brought in state-
of-the-art expertise into project design, yet at the same time a participatory approach was
promoted to ensure the project's relevance and operational feasibility. A PPF also financed
studies that enhanced the project design, including the preparation of a comprehensive and
participatory M&E system. Project preparation and appraisal, were well managed. Investments
in infrastructure and equipment were well focused to proper requirements. The Bank had a
consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal,
which allowed the LIL to be prepared in 3 months.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: SATISFACTORY

The Bank's performance during project implementation was satisfactory. Throughout the
project's implementation, the Bank permanently expressed its commitment to contributing to
the project's success, and as such it was co-task managed with both staff in the field and at
headquarters; which ensured that adequate resources were allocated for monitoring and
supervision. Over the five years of the project's implementation, the Bank conducted 9
supervision missions, an average of 2.25 missions per year, and this included field visits to
provinces to obtain first-hand comments and feedback on progress made. This close
supervision enabled the Bank to come into agreements with the counterpart on complicated
operational issues resulting from the economic crisis and the change of administration. First,
the economic crisis caused an increase in number of proposals which main emphasis was
providing economic alternatives to the poor, which made gender mainstreaming objective
more challenging. Also, the Kirchner administration brought a new approach based on
working directly with the grassroots or local-based organizations, rather than delegating the
implementation of methodologies to NGOS, which increased the need of the CNM to increase
their staffing for what was originally negotiated. Many of these changes, which had to be
introduced in the Manual Operations, implied complex negotiations between the CNM and the
Bank to find middle ground, while maintaining the covenants in the Legal Agreement.

After overcoming the adjustment process of a new administration, the relationship with the
Borrower was mostly positive and productive. Most relevant, in its ongoing support
relationship with the Borrower, the Bank showed a high willingness and had a hands-on
approach for providing solutions to the operational problems arose during project
implementation. This was evident in the support given for changes in the Operation Manual
and other administrative and financial procedures.

Aide memoirs routinely highlighted outstanding issues and agreements on corrective actions.
Follow-up was rigorous and credit covenants were effectively enforced. The Project Status
Reports realistically rated the project's performance in terms of achievement of development
objectives and progress in implementation. For example, during late 2003 and early 2004, an



                                                25

unsatisfactory rating flagged difficulties with the focus on gender equity and counterpart funds
that were seriously affecting the implementation progress and threatening the achievement of
the development objectives.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: SATISFACTORY

Based on the above mentioned analysis of its role during project preparation and
implementation, the overall Bank performance in PROFAM is rated as satisfactory.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: SATISFACTORY

The Borrower's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. The Borrower
(represented by the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Social Policy) displayed the
required level of commitment to the project objectives and contributed to all major aspects of
project design; giving full priority to its preparation and appraisal. In addition, in spite of the
crisis, the Government made a significant effort to secure funds for the project, so loan
effectiveness conditions were properly fulfilled at the end of 2002.

The Borrower's performance during project implementation was also satisfactory. The
Government always maintained its confidence in the project, as demonstrated by its support to
aide memoir agreements and its agreement to an increase in the number of sub-projects that
were financed as a result of a reallocation of funds. After the economic crisis the Government
confirmed its support for the project by providing adequate counterpart funds and supporting
the CNM with the administrative and legal requirements for the reallocation of funds and an
extension of the project closing date.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: SATISFACTORY


Implementing    Consejo Nacional de La Mujer
Agency
                The PIU encountered various challenges during project implementation, the
                main one being the severe economic, political and social crisis that gripped the
                country between 2001 and 2003. The crisis caused problems of funding in the
                early years of project implementation. Although the new administration that
                came into office in 2003 gave its complete support to the project, the transition
                process lasted almost a year; generating dissatisfaction among the CBO and LG
                due to delays in the activation of grants. Also, the PIU's personnel was
                overwhelmed with the workflow and frequent personnel changes generated
                problems and delays in implementation, including, for example, the late delivery
                of the Administrative and Financial Manual. Nevertheless, by early 2004, the
                CNM effectively had provided timely technical assistance and administrative
                support, had selected all the projects to be reviewed by the grant selection


                                              26

                committee after the second call for proposals and had authorized the approved
                sub-projects of the first call of proposals. These efforts allowed for all project
                activities to be completed successfully by the end of 2006; including the final
                evaluation. Further, the PIU made arrangements to integrate the project's main
                products ­ methodologies and partnerships with CBO networks ­ into their own
                work programs or those of other line ministries.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: SATISIFACTORY

The Borrower had a satisfactory performance, measured not only by the accomplishments
made, but also by the efforts devoted to advancing the project, solving emerging problems and
finding operational alternatives as needed. Despite the crisis which affected the timely
availability of counterpart funds and the new administration's rather long transition process
which delayed project implementation, the Government and the CNM were committed to the
project objectives and their support during its implementation allowed all project activities to
be completed and the development objectives achieved.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)
Project-Specific

    · When this type of LIL is implemented by an agency that does not have previous
        experience, it is better to start with a pilot operation ­ as a first stage of the project ­ to
        minimize the implementation costs associated with such an extended learning curve.
        According to the project evaluation, a quarter of the organizations reported that the
        CNM was not able to respond to their technical and administrative inquiries or requests
        for assistance, resulting in that 72% of the organizations had to make changes in their
        timetables and 54% in their budget during the implementation of the sub-projects.

    · When working with numerous and heterogeneous organizations in terms of size,
        experience, and geographical location, an in-depth institutional assessment should be
        completed in order to evaluate implementation capacity, formulate necessary
        institutional arrangements and provide ex-ante technical assistance that ensures the
        smooth implementation of activities.

    · The level of experience of the organizations, their capacity to formulate sound
        methodologies for applying the social capital and gender approach as well as their
        available resources are key factors that ensure a successful integration of this approach.

    · When working with beneficiaries who are poor, the organizations have to assist them,
        participate in the sub-projects because often these could not afford basic costs such as
        transportation, childcare, etc. Organizations that paid for transportation and gave
        scholarships to the beneficiaries had lower dropout rates.

    · Sub-projects following PROFAM approach generally required two-years to be


                                               27

       effective and needed continuous funding over that period.

General Application:


    · When working with demand-driven grants, many organizations do not have sufficient
       experience and resources to both implement and systematize this approach without
       substantial supervision. Given the economic crisis CNM had to respond to many
       requests from organizations which increased its operational work and reduced the
       opportunity for learning. A more selective approach based on identifying ex-ante the
       organizations with more potential to develop and test innovative methodologies, could
       be more efficient.

    · Monitoring and evaluation systems should take into account the possibility of delays
       and other changes in project implementation so as to provide other evaluation options
       if need be. Due to the crisis, the changes in administration and other institutional and
       technical problems, the PROFAM impact evaluation component could not be fully
       developed. Arrangements should be sought between the Bank and the implementing
       agency for continuing evaluation after the project is finished.

    · Given the learning nature of a LIL mechanisms should be established for using the
       lessons learned as a basis for the Bank's policy dialogue both internally and with the
       government. A second phase of PROFAM would have been optimal to consolidate the
       lessons learned from the project and to build the necessary institutional capacity to
       make operational policies and lessons advanced by PROFAM.
    .

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




(b) Cofinanciers




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           28

29

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The original objective of the PROFAM LIL was to test and monitor a social capital approach to
address the vulnerability of the poor by targeting families as comprehensive units and promoting
gender equity. This objective would lead the LIL to contribute to reduce poor families'
vulnerability by strengthening family cohesion, solidarity between male and female family
members, and capacity for conscious socio-economic and reproductive decision-making. To
achieve this objective, the LIL followed a decentralized and participatory approach to capitalize
the initiatives being carried out by civil society and local governments, and to build capacity at
the local with the aim of enhancing LIL's sustainability. Accordingly, the LIL would support,
monitor, and learn from: (a) initiatives promoted by local governments (LG) and community-
based organizations (CBO) to enhance effective allocation of resources and use of opportunities
by vulnerable families through the promotion of gender equity and cohesive family practices
(Programa Equidad); (b) actions led by CBO and LG to foster more effective use of community
resources by strengthening linkages among neighboring families; (c) actions that capture the
potential of community social capital by advancing prospects for the creation and/or
strengthening of civil society organization networks; and (d) dissemination of best practices on
community interventions supporting family development and equitable gender relations.


The LIL identified correctly its key indicators, combining both outcomes variables and output
targets. All of them were properly aligned with the LIL's objectives and with its implementation
plan. Moreover, CNM in conjunction with the Ministry of Finance ensured that the outcome
indicators reflected the effectiveness of the LIL by assessing the impact of the subprojects in
reducing families' vulnerability. These outcome/impact indicators were used as the PDO
indicators in the PAD, and include the following: (a) improved awareness among beneficiary
families about the importance of gender equity and cohesive family practices as a means of
reducing their vulnerability; (b) improved awareness among beneficiary families participating in
Programa Equidad about children's emotional needs and how to respond to them; (c) decrease in
domestic violence episodes among beneficiary families participating in Programa Equidad; (d)
improved evidence of responsible parenthood among beneficiary families of Programa Equidad
through: (i) increase in father's involvement in childcare and support; and (ii) decrease in teenage
pregnancy; and (e) increase in the proportion of CBO and LG connected in civil society networks.
See Annex 1.a for the specific information of these indicators. A detailed set of output indicators
complemented these PDO indicators and facilitated monitoring and evaluation throughout project
implementation (see Annex 1.b.)




                                                   30

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from          Revised       Achieved at
                                                approval           Target       Completion or
                                              documents)           Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :   At least 100 subprojects are successfully implemented under Equity Fund
                (Fondo Equidad)
Value                                                          250 sub-      218 sub-projects
quantitative or No subprojects existed.    100                               successfully
Qualitative)                                                   projects      implemented.
Date achieved 11/26/2002                   11/26/2002          05/19/2006    12/30/2006
Comments        Due to the increase of the loan's fund in national currency PROFAM
(incl. %        implemented 218 sub-projects that benefited 50 thousand people (80% and 20%
achievement)   men) in all provinces of the country.
Indicator 2 :   At least three Communication Campaigns carried out by EOP
Value                                                          At least 3    3 communication
quantitative or No campaigns carried out 3 campaigns           campaigns     campaigns carried
Qualitative)                                                   carried out   out.
Date achieved 11/26/2002                   11/26/2002          06/30/2005    04/30/2007

Comments        Three communication campaigns on women rights and domestic violence were

(incl. %        conducted using printed, audiovisual and publicity materials, targeted to

achievement)    different population groups (inc. soccer match attendants) and involved media
                icons such as soccer players.

Indicator 3 :   10 stakeholder meetings organized in different areas of the country to
                interchange positive experiences
                                                                             6 regional

Value                                                                        meetings, 12

quantitative or 0 meetings                 10 stakeholder      52 meetings   training meetings

Qualitative)                               meetings                          and 52 on-site
                                                                             technical assistance
                                                                             visits.
Date achieved 11/26/2002                   11/26/2002          10/30/2006    12/30/2006
Comments        CNM carried out multiple meetings at the regional and local levels with
(incl. %        organizations (NGOs, Universities, CBOs, municipalities, local, provincial and
achievement)    central gov.) to exchange experiences and provide technical assistance.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval           Revised      Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Family ability to function cohesively is strengthened
Value           Qualitative (incl.         not established at Among          According to



                                                31

(quantitative   consultations, focus       appraisal           beneficiaries, PROFAM's
or Qualitative) groups) baseline showed                        decrease in     evaluation study,
                substantial degree of                          teen            over 78 % of the
                gender segregation                             pregnancy and beneficiaries of the
                among beneficiaries.                           at least 70% of sample perceived
                                                               beneficiaries   their capacity to
                                                               perceive        follow cohesive
                                                               strengthened    family practice
                                                               family ability enhanced.
                                                               to function
                                                               cohesively,
                                                               according to
                                                               evaluation
                                                               survey.
Date achieved 11/26/2002                   11/26/2002          05/19/2006      12/30/2006
Comments        In the absence of quantitative base line the evaluation study used a focus group
(incl. %        methodology; 78.6 % of beneficiaries declared to have their abilities enhanced.
achievement)    Teenage pregnancy reduction can not be established.
Indicator 2 :  Community social capital is expanded
                                                                               -60 % of the 213
                                                               among           organization
                                                               beneficiaries, evaluated declared

Value           A sense of community in                        at least 70%    to have connected

(quantitative   the areas of the project   not established at feel sense of    with CSOs

or Qualitative) did not exist              appraisal           community,      -4,300 promoters
                                                               according to    trained for
                                                               evaluation      articulating CSOs
                                                               survey          with neighbors
                                                                               associations.
Date achieved 11/26/2002                   11/26/2002          05/19/2006      12/30/2006
Comments        Also, the beneficiaries declared that the group dynamic methodologies followed
(incl. %        by the subprojects allowed them value the benefits of sharing their problems
achievement)    with their peers and to reproduce this behavior with others.




                                               32

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable




                                  33

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


          Components             Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of
                                    (USD M)               (USD M)            Appraisal
FAMILY STRENGTHENING                           4.06                   4.38.        107.9%
GENDER AND COMMUNITY
                                              1.15                    0.22          19..1%
AWARENESS
INSTITUTIONAL
                                              1.16                    1.13          97.4%
DEVELOPMENT
            Total Baseline Cost               6.38                   5.73           85.9%
Physical Contingencies                         0.28                   0.00
Price Contingencies                            0.01                   0.00
              Total Project Costs             6.67                    5.73
Front-end fee PPF                                                     0.07
                                              0.05                                   2.4%
Front-end fee IBRD                                                   0.05
      Total Financing Required                 6.72                  5.85           87.1%



(b) Financing


                                                  Appraisal   Actual/Latest
         Source of Funds           Type of                                   Percentage of
                                  Cofinancing     Estimate    Estimate (USD
                                                  (USD M)           M)         Appraisal

  Borrower                                             0.00              0.00
  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                     5.00              4.32         86%
DEVELOPMENT
  LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV.,
DISTRICT, CITY) OF                                     1.00              0.16         16%
BORROWING COUNTRY
  NON-GOVERNMENT
ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF                                  0.72              0.81       1.13%
BORROWING COUNTRY




(c) Disbursement Profile




                                           34

Note: The graph is in currency of the loan/credit/grant.




                       35

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Component I: Family Strengthening

To strengthen families by enhancing their abilities to function cohesively, the Project implemented two
demand-driven funds: Programa Equidad and Social Capital Promotion. Working along ten thematic
areas ­ domestic violence, reproductive health, responsible fatherhood and motherhood, rights and
citizenship, culture and recreation, environment, resilience, rural development, tourism, production-
oriented activities including entrepreneurial growth and development ­ these two funds funded sub-
projects that provided either training, technical assistance, equipment or support for the construction of
small infrastructure. The majority of the sub-projects (81.2%) were targeted to heterogeneous groups
made up of both women and men. Over half of the organizations (63.4%) employed multiple
methodologies and activities to integrate the gender equity approach. For example, a standard sub-
project working in production-oriented activities included several productive activities (i.e. arts and
crafts, orchards, animal husbandry) and provided orientation seminars on reproductive health issues,
domestic violence, responsible parenthood, nutrition, and alcoholism and drug abuse. The seminars
were held once a month and included lectures and theatrical performances, among other techniques.
Technical assistance on productive activities was provided on-site with the assistance of professionals
in the area that guided the group. The table below summarizes the main characteristics of 3 selected
subprojects.

Table 1: Examples of Mainstreaming Gender into Social Capital Sub-Projects

 Subproject Name                Objectives/Activities               Actions/Tools

 Subproject 1: Mainstreaming    - Provide workshops on key gender   - Design and use of education
 Gender into Farmer             themes focusing on women's          material
 Community organizations,       empowerment.                        - Training of Trainers (Promoters) in
 Artisans organizations, and    - Strengthen local organizations (  key gender themes.
 Indigenous People's            both women and mixed) and           - Support to productive ventures by
 organizations in Northwest     promote the creation of local       providing on-site technical
 Argentina.                     networks                            assistance.
                                - Support micro productive          - Coordination, monitoring &
                                ventures.                           evaluation
                                - Support efforts for improving     - Establishment of partnerships with
                                women's health                      other organizations, public sector
                                                                    agencies and LG (sign work
                                                                    agreements, MOUs, etc.)
 Subproject 2: Community        - Provide a better understanding    - Preparation of didactic material.
 Bakery in Barrio Villa del     and revalorization of the family    - Training of Promoters in key
 Rosario ­ Formosa.             members' roles, using the families' gender themes.
                                original knowledge and              - Provide training workshops in
                                understanding of these roles.       reproductive health, responsible
                                - Empower women by making           parenthood, domestic violence and
                                them to acquire production skills   rights and citizenships.
                                and, thus, to generate income for   - Make women responsible in the
                                the household.                      establishment of the bakery:
                                - Achieve a community               infrastructure, equipment, etc.
                                entrepreneurship that can provide   - Provide training and technical
                                an example of organization,         assistance on bakery production
                                community service and training.     activities.



                                                         36

                                                                           -- Encourage cooperation and linking
                                                                           with other organizations.
 Subproject 3: Social Connection   - Reinforce family socio-affective      - Preparation of didactic material.
 & Identity: Gender & Family in    skills within family dynamics.          - Carrying-out families' needs-
 Cordoba, Argentina.               - Strengthening women's position        assessments and a diagnostic of the
                                   by addressing gender disparities.       public services supply.
                                   - Provide stimulant education           - Workshop series on masculinity
                                   opportunities and integral              and parenthood.
                                   protection to children as way to        - Provide common recreational
                                   help parents in child-rearing.          activities to enhance cohesiveness.
                                   - Promote sociability and               - Use of community resources to
                                   sensibility of women and families       disseminate training events.
                                   by developing creative expressions      - Association with other local
                                   and socio-recreational experiences.     organizations.
                                                                           - Dissemination of availability of
                                                                           public services and economic support
                                                                           to families to enhance their access to
                                                                           these services.
                                                                           - Improve infrastructure of
                                                                           organizations' facilities.
                                                                           - Support community initiatives such
                                                                           as child-care centers.

The 213 organizations surveyed during the final evaluation reported that they had expanded the
beneficiaries' knowledge on certain themes. For example, in domestic violence the main themes that
were familiar by the beneficiaries were the topics of violence circuits, batter, and detection of violent
situations. At the end of the subprojects, had acquired information and had a clearer sense as to what to
do, where to go to acquire information and knowledge about the legal procedures to follow. As
reported by the beneficiaries in the focus groups evaluation component, the knowledge transmitted in
the subprojects has proved to be effective in reducing the family's vulnerability by empowering
women, sensitizing men on their own stakes in gender equity, increasing women's participation and
decision-making in their interaction with the labor market and provision of public services (i.e., health,
judicial), introducing self-awareness mechanisms for identifying violent attitudes and practices, and
expanding family networks. The table below summarizes the evidence reported by the beneficiaries on
behavior change as envisioned by the outcome indicators stated in the PAD.

Table 2: Perceived Behavior Changes by the Beneficiaries
 Key Performance                Evidence based on beneficiaries' account
 Indicator
 Awareness about the            Empowerment of Women:
 importance of gender equity    - Self-esteem and autonomy in decision-making increased.
 and cohesive family practices  - Capacity to identify gender inequity through a reflection process increased.
                                - Bargaining power within the household to change the woman's traditional roles
                                increased­ e.g., men performing more childcare chores.
                                - Taking up productive roles and insertion into the market increased.
                                - Capacity to disseminate their new skills and knowledge to the community increased.
                                - Identification of gender disparities at the society level enhanced.

                                Cohesive family practices:
                                - Communication and comprehension skills enhanced.
                                - Capacity to relate with community members enhanced.
                                - Men sensitized in gender, and knowledge of their partner's emotional needs increased.



                                                            37

                                - Men's respect for women increased.
 Improved awareness about       - Knowledge of the benefits of breastfeeding and an increase in the practice.
 children's emotional needs     - More self-awareness of violent attitudes and practices, and enhancement of capacity to
 and how to respond to these    identify when involved in violent dynamics.
                                - Co-responsibility of both parents in childcare understood.
                                - Information on strategies to prevent school dropout increased.
 Domestic violence episodes     Skills and resources to manage domestic violence problems increased. For example:
                                - Knowledge of legal resources to prevent violence increased.
                                - Increased access to shelters by setting them or referring and assisting with paperwork.
                                - Awareness in the psychological effects of domestic violence (e.g., victims' guilt).
                                - Capacity to communicate domestic violence episodes and seek for help increased.
 Responsible parenthood         - Access to information on child alimony increased.
 through: (I) father's          - Women's bargaining power to make men perform more childcare chores increased.
 involvement in childcare and   - Information on the benefits of co-parenting increased.
 support; and (ii) awareness on - Awareness of the benefits of integrating recommended reproductive health practices
 teenage pregnancy.             increased. For example:
                                     · Prevention of acquiring STD and use of condom.
                                     · Family planning methods in pregnancy prevention.
                                     · Knowledge on female and male bodies.
                                - Parents' more involved in discussing reproductive health issued with their children.
 CBOs and LGs connected         - As a result of the LIL, sixty percent of the 213 organizations evaluated declared to have
 with civil society networks.   connected with NGO, 50.7% with local governments and 46% with provincial units.
                                - Also, 48.8% of NGO exchanged experiences and made consultations with local
                                governments, and 61.2% with other NGO. Half of the LG (51.2%) interacted with CBO.

In addition, the Social Capital Fund promoted the creation of networks between civic society
organizations and public agencies. As a result, 60% of the 213 organizations evaluated declared to have
connected with NGO, 50.7% with local governments and 46% with provincial units. Also, 48.8% of
NGO exchanged experiences and made consultations with local governments, and 61.2% with other
NGO, while half of the LG (51.2%) interacted with CBO. LG articulated more with the health sector and
less with the police station and the judiciary. NGO articulated more with the public agencies at the
national level. The chart below detailed all sectors agencies that articulated with these three
organizations. Besides, under these subprojects 4,300 promoters were trained to be articulators between
organizations and neighborhood associations and to provide information on their work to the
communities.




                                                            38

Chart 1

           Linkage with other Organizations according to
                                             NGO and LG
    70.0
    60.0
    50.0
    40.0
    30.0                                                                                        NGO
    20.0                                                                                        LG
    10.0
      0.0

           NGO       ies es                             t
                          i                               icesutionsdm
                                                                     an       s  ney  Org.
              AgencAgencncyRoomospitalParish                                              None
                             H             StationCour
        cipalvincialEmerge             lice                            OtherAttorroots
                                    Po       tionalucation
                                                    AgencInstitOmbus DistricGrass
    MuniPro                                Na  Ed


Source: CNM, 2006

Component II: Gender and Community Awareness

The objective of this component was to promote awareness-raising and communication strategies at a
micro-level that seek to directly impact the LIL target areas to further enhance government-civil society-
community-family relationships, particularly related to reproductive health choices and decision making,
parental responsibility, respect for non-traditional gender roles among youth and children, etc. To achieve
so CNM carried out three communication campaigns of women's rights and domestic violence using
printed, audio-visual and publicity material. These campaigns were targeted to diverse groups and use
different venues such as academic conferences or major soccer tournaments. Besides, CNM carried out
six regional meetings with the organizations, beneficiaries and national and provincial government
officials to exchange experiences among and provide technical assistance to the beneficiaries. Gender
awareness was also promoted in the 13 training and technical assistance meetings to the organizations
and beneficiaries that encompassed 1,000 women and men. Finally, the CNM produced a set of ten
DVDs in the main thematic themes: rights and citizenship, production oriented activities, health,
domestic violence, impacts and networks. In these DVDs, the beneficiaries share their experience with
the subprojects and their perceived benefits to encourage other potential beneficiaries to go through a
similar experience.

Under this component, CNM also worked in mainstreaming gender into other sector government
agencies such as the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Interior through providing technical
assistance on how to integrate gender principles into their program or training their personnel. CNM also
participated in the formulation or regulation of policies and laws for fostering gender equity in crucial
sectors. The role of CNM in the regulation of the Reproductive Law is the best example of these results,
since CNM has filled an important gap in reproductive health issues by providing a unifying framework
for addressing the reproductive health needs of individuals, families and communities. Gender equity
principles are now present in major policies and programs such as labor regulation, education laws,
public employment norms and financial programs for micro enterprise development.




                                                                                      39

Component III: Institutional Development

This component was envisioned to build upon the existing project management capacity of the PIU
within CNM as the entity responsible for the coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the
project by providing technical assistance and capacity building for PIU staff and consultants. As stated in
the PAD, this component supported: (a) consultants to support the technical and administrative
implementation of the project; (b) capacity building for PIU staff and consultants; (c) the implementation
of a monitoring and evaluation system, including the definition of the baseline and performance
indicators; (d) consultants for the project audits; and (e) equipment (computers, printers, software etc)
necessary for project implementation.




                                                    40

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

Not applicable.




                                            41

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


          Names                       Title                    Unit             Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
María-Valeria Penha        Lead Social Scientist      ESSD                    Task Manager (2000-06)
                           Sr. Social Development
Josefina Stubbs                                     LCSSO                     Task Manager (2006-07)
                           Specialist
                           Junior Professional
Barbara Brakarz                                       LCSEO                   Program Assistant
                           Associate
Daniela Edith Fernandez    Temporary                  LCC7C                   Social Specialist
Andres Mac Gaul            Sr Procurement Spec.       LCSPT                   Procurement Specialist
Veronica Salatino          Country Officer            LCC7C                   Operation Specialist
Alejandro Roger Solanot    E T Consultant             LCSFM                   Financial Management
Olympia Icochea            Consultant                                         ICR Preparation


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No.    Date ISR Archived              IP               DO              Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1    12/10/2001                Satisfactory      Satisfactory                                       0.00
2    06/07/2002                Satisfactory      Satisfactory                                       0.00
3    09/18/2002                Satisfactory      Satisfactory                                       0.00
4    02/25/2003                Satisfactory      Satisfactory                                       0.55
5    05/22/2003                Satisfactory      Satisfactory                                       0.55
6    12/16/2003                Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory                                     0.75
7    05/31/2004                Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory                                     0.88
8    09/01/2004                Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory                                     1.32
9    04/04/2005                Satisfactory      Satisfactory                                       2.08
10 01/04/2006                  Satisfactory      Satisfactory                                       3.79
11 06/27/2006                  Satisfactory      Satisfactory                                       4.33


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

                Stage of Project Cycle                                             USD Thousands
                                                         No. of staff weeks      (including travel and
                                                                                   consultant costs)
Lending
                        FY00                                               15                      64.57



                                                  42

                  FY01              12     84.42
                  FY02               8     39.77
                  FY03                      6.23
                  FY04                      2.35
                  FY05                      0.00
                  FY06                      0.00
                  FY07                      0.00
                          Total:    35    197.34
Supervision/ICR
                  FY00                    197.34
                  FY01                      0.00
                  FY02               1      0.00
                  FY03              15     18.05
                  FY04              14     56.89
                  FY05              15     69.25
                  FY06              17     58.87
                  FY07               4     82.25
                          Total:    66    482.65




                              43

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

           Bank                      Ratings            Borrower              Ratings
Ensuring Quality at Entry: Satisfactory         Government:         Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                               44

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)
As mentioned above, the CNM evaluation included focus group to the subproject's beneficiaries for each
of the two funds. For each of the 213 sub-projects evaluated, 10 to 15 beneficiaries were interviewed,
which defined a sample of between 2,130 to 3,195 beneficiaries. The questions asked in the focus groups
were designed to gauge their perceptions of the impact of the sub-projects, specifically on whether they
had acquired new skills or had any behavioral changes with regards to their families and communities as
a result of participating or benefiting from the same. The table below presents a summary of the main
outcomes of the subprojects for selected thematic themes.

 Activities                                          Selected Outcomes/Women's Quotes
 Most PROFAM subprojects integrated a gender         " ...the dialogue permitted to break our fears."
 approach using a methodology based on group         Many women became familiar and comfortable in
 dynamics. Their objective was to reduce women's     having a group to share their concerns and day-to-day
 isolation and made them more aware of the need to   issues and are currently promoting the establishment of
 share their concern with others.                    Women's Associations.
 The PROFAM subprojects on rights and citizenship    "We learned to meet for work; we really needed to get
 and production oriented activities aimed at helping out of their homes; we now demand respect from our
 women to enhance their skills, their capacity to    partners."
 generate income and more important their self-      - Men and other family members accept taking care for
 esteem.                                             women to go their meetings.
                                                     -Some women started dealing themselves with
                                                     administrative procedures required by public agencies.
                                                     -Other women individually and as groups have started
                                                     their own productive ventures.
                                                     - Women that were participating in other state-funded
                                                     programs are willing to take advantage of their other
                                                     benefits such as continuing education.
 The PROFAM subprojects on responsible               "The time with the psychologist helped me to
 parenthood and motherhood and child rearing         understand my children's behavior and to modify some
 pursued to improve families' relations by           of my violent conducts"
 understanding members' roles and position.          - Women started to acknowledge their own violent
                                                     practices when interacting with their children.
                                                     - Parents' communication with their children improved,
                                                     particularly on those subjects difficult to address such
                                                     as sex and drugs.
                                                     - Teenage mothers returned to school to complete their
                                                     education.
 The PROFAM subprojects on reproductive health       "Many guys asked a lot about the condom [during the
 aimed at enhancing beneficiaries' knowledge on      workshops.] I was also embarrassed to talk, but later I
 reproductive health by using a gender approach.     got more comfortable....My siblings refused to join me
 Many of the subprojects were targeted to youth      at the beginning, but later they came."
 population.                                          - Women got more aware of their rights and
                                                     possibilities to plan their families and to make
                                                     decisions on their sexual life.
                                                     - The promoters are crucial in facilitating women
                                                     access to health care by just going along with them to
                                                     the health center or hospital.
                                                     -Youngsters have increased their knowledge on
                                                     reproductive health and are keeping their role as
                                                     disseminators of this knowledge to their peers.
 The PROFAM domestic violence subprojects had as     "My husband is an alcoholic, but he has to respect me
 their main objectives to train and sensitize the    now and my decisions."
 population on domestic violence and enhance         - Both men and women declared to know now the



                                                           45

 women's access to all the agencies dealing with it. "violence cycle" so they are able prevent getting into it
                                                     - Beneficiaries established and maintained a local
                                                     network including municipalities to advice and act on
                                                     domestic violence episodes.
                                                     - There is more knowledge on the services and
                                                     resources provided by the government to help women
                                                     to deal with domestic violence.


The evaluation also included a survey of organizations to evaluate the performance of the implementing
agency, the CNM. The results revealed that technical assistance and supervision of CNM to the CBOs
and NGOs were very satisfactory or satisfactory in 78.4% of the cases. In turn, the support offered on
accounting and financial related issues were considered satisfactory or better only in 45% of the cases.
These results vary among the first and second call of proposals and regions. For example, twenty percent
of the organizations declared to be very dissatisfied or dissatisfied with the technical assistance. For the
accounting support these percentages become 21% and 13% respectively. In the northeast and northwest
and metropolitan regions of the country the degree of satisfaction with the CNM performance is high,
whereas in the Cuyo region 40% of the responses were of dissatisfaction. This could be explained that
those organizations that belong to this region were selected during the first call of proposals, which
presented more problems to provide timely and relevant support to the organizations.




                                                          46

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)
Not Applicable




                                         47

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Estimada señora
En mi carácter de Presidenta del Consejo Nacional de la Mujer, tengo el agrado de dirigirme a Ud. a fin de
hacerle llegar los comentarios al informe final sobre el programa Profam.
Para el CNM, el Profam significó una experiencia importante en el sentido de operar en forma directa el
apoyo a la tarea de gobiernos locales y de organizaciones sociales con su comunidad, que complementa la
desarrollada a través del Plan Federal y de otros programas.
Hemos leído con detenimiento el informe final realizado sobre el desarrollo del Programa de Fortalecimiento
a la Familia y el Capital Social, llevado a cabo por nuestro Consejo y finalizado el 31 de diciembre del año
2006.
Al respecto queremos acordar en términos generales con el contenido de dicho informe, que refleja el
enorme esfuerzo de nuestro gobierno para lograr su máximo aprovechamiento dentro de sus políticas
sociales integrales y en el contexto del proceso de recuperación de nuestro país luego de la crisis de los años
2001 y 2002.
Antes de entrar a ese detalle, un par de comentarios generales sobre el Programa como ya le adelantáramos
verbalmente: primero, la concepción del mismo ignoró el rol de las Áreas Mujer de las provincias; segundo,
la inflexibilidad del banco para el fortalecimiento de la unidad ejecutora así como la demora en aceptar
nuestra propuesta de aumentar la cantidad de subproyectos a ser financiados.
En anexo detallamos los comentarios puntuales al informe final, con el propósito de que estas
consideraciones y esos comentarios sean incluidos en el informe final.
Quedamos a su disposición para ampliar y desarrollar esos conceptos. Atte.




                                                                     María Lucila Colombo

Presidenta



Sra. Josefina Stubbs
Social Development Specialist
ESSD, Latin America and the Caribbean Region
World Bank
 Comentarios al informe final del Banco Mundial sobre el Programa de Fortalecimiento a la Familia
                                              y el Capital Social


Para el CNM, el Profam significó una experiencia importante en el sentido de operar en forma directa el
apoyo a la tarea de gobiernos locales y de organizaciones sociales con su comunidad, que complementa la
desarrollada a través del Plan Federal y de otros programas.
Hemos leído con detenimiento el informe final realizado sobre el desarrollo del Programa de Fortalecimiento
a la Familia y el Capital Social, llevado a cabo por nuestro Consejo y finalizado el 31 de diciembre del año
2006.



                                                       48

Al respecto queremos acordar en términos generales con el contenido de dicho informe, que refleja el
enorme esfuerzo de nuestro gobierno para lograr su máximo aprovechamiento dentro de sus políticas
sociales integrales y en el contexto del proceso de recuperación de nuestro país luego de la crisis de los años
2001 y 2002.
Sin embargo, queremos puntualizar algunos aspectos que desarrollamos con detalle a continuación y que
están referidos a: son las políticas nacionales integrales las que han orientado el desarrollo del programa y no
al revés ya que ha sido el encuadre dentro de éstas lo que facilitó el éxito del Profam; dentro de la política de
Derechos Humanos, el gobierno impulsó la normativa destinada a promover el efectivo ejercicio de la
ciudadanía por parte de las mujeres en materia de salud sexual y reproductiva, de educación, trabajo,
violencia, etc., como parte de su concepción global de construcción de justicia social y finalmente el CNM es
un organismo que viene trabajando los programas de igualdad de oportunidades y la transversalizacion de la
equidad de género a las distintas áreas de gobierno y el Profam ha significado una herramienta más para ese
objetivo.
Antes de entrar a ese detalle, un par de comentarios generales sobre el Programa como ya le adelantáramos
verbalmente: primero, la concepción del mismo ignoró -en un país federal como el nuestro- el rol de las
Áreas Mujer de las provincias en la posibilidad de desarrollar una política de equidad conjunta entre el Estado
Nacional, los gobiernos locales y la sociedad civil; esto constituyó un obstáculo para la articulación
permanente y la continuidad de los logros del programa; segundo, la inflexibilidad del banco para valorar la
importancia del fortalecimiento de la unidad ejecutora en las tareas de asistencia técnica y apoyo a los
subproyectos así como la demora en aceptar nuestra propuesta de reasignación de fondos para aumentar
sensiblemente la cantidad de subproyectos a ser financiados, significó, también un obstáculo que debimos
sortear.



Respecto del punto 6.5 Original Components (as approved)
Component 1: Family Strengthening
Se refiere a 30 mil dólares no pesos argentinos (aunque inicialmente existía la paridad uno a uno).

Respecto del párrafo 7

Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
La tarea desarrollada durante el año 2002 con el Progen sirvió al CNM para relevar las organizaciones no
gubernamentales que trabajaban en la comunidad por los derechos de las mujeres en las diferentes provincias.
La experiencia del Plan Federal de la Mujer sirvió también para el armado del Profam.

Respecto del 7.5
El sentido que se le da a este punto está errado políticamente.
Nuestro gobierno puso en marcha, con recursos propios de su presupuesto y a través de diversos programas
una batería de acciones de políticas públicas destinadas a revertir las décadas de exclusión y disgregación
social. Tanto en lo que hace a la ley de salud sexual y procreación responsable y el programa correspondiente
que instaló consejerías y provisión gratuita de insumos en todos los centros estatales de atención primaria de
la salud, como en la ley de educación sexual, la ley de educación nacional con equidad de género, la
promoción de la equidad en la ley de educación técnica, el programa Nacer, el programa de Seguridad
Alimentaria, la jubilación anticipada, así como la inclusión de mujeres en la Corte Suprema de Justicia de la
Nación y en los Ministerios de Desarrollo Social, Defensa y Economía del PEN. Todas ellas expresiones de


                                                        49

políticas públicas destinadas a recuperar los derechos con una mirada de equidad entre mujeres y varones.
Por lo tanto, cabe aclarar que el Profam fue una de las herramientas utilizadas por el gobierno argentino en
su política activa de defensa de los Derechos Humanos de las personas y las familias, en especial aquellas que
fueron excluidas durante el auge de las políticas neoliberales, privatizadoras que destruyeron el trabajo y la
producción nacional.
La orientación de las políticas sociales del gobierno argentino ­expresadas en palabras de la Presidenta del
Consejo Nacional de Coordinación de Políticas Sociales- es seguida por las políticas del CNM, por lo tanto,
no es el Ministerio de Desarrollo Social quien aprende de un programa, sino que el CNM ­y dentro de él el
Profam- quien sigue los lineamientos de la política nacional.
Por lo demás el CNM en su rol articulador trabaja para incluir las problemáticas de género y su mejor
abordaje con los grandes planes nacionales que orientan la política social. La promoción de las actividades y la
aprobación de la legislación de equidad de género han sido y son logros del gobierno en su conjunto ­y
dentro de ello, de sus programas- y son el resultado de una fuerte decisión política de la Presidencia de la
Nación. Para estos logros el Consejo Nacional de la Mujer, a través de todos sus programas, trabaja
fuertemente.
El CNM tiene una tradición histórica en el trabajo por la igualdad de oportunidades entre mujeres y varones y
en la transversalización de la equidad de género a través del Directorio que integran representantes de los
diferentes ministerios, de convenios con cada uno de ellos y del Consejo Federal de la Mujer que integran las
representantes de las provincias. En todo caso el PROFAM le permitió al CNM tomar contacto directo con
mujeres y varones de los sectores sociales más postergados, recoger experiencias y puntualizar mejor la
multiplicidad de formas que toma la discriminación que sufren las mujeres en los distintos ámbitos y en
todas las regiones del país.

Respecto del punto 8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Si bien los resultados han sido altamente positivos y las metodologías desarrolladas por el programa siguen
siendo utilizadas por las ONGS y los gobiernos locales que fueron beneficiados con los proyectos PROFAM,
no es posible afirmar que el PROFAM haya impuesto metodologías en la formulación de políticas sociales.
La afirmación referida al 40% de los gobiernos locales debe entenderse en el contexto de que con el Profam,
el CNM ha accedido a menos del 5% de los gobiernos locales, solamente.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Si bien los resultados han sido altamente positivos el PROFAM no ha impuesto metodologías en la
formulación de políticas sociales. Las metodologías desarrolladas por el programa siguen siendo utilizadas por
las ONGS y los gobiernos locales que fueron beneficiados con los proyectos PROFAM
Es necesario destacar que las palabras de la Dra. Kirchner tienen que ver con la orientación de la política
social que traza el GOA. Por lo tanto, no debe entenderse que es el Ministerio de Desarrollo Social quien
aprende del PROFAM, sino que el PROFAM sigue los lineamientos de la política nacional.
El CNM a través de sus actividades permanentes tanto a nivel central como en las provincias mantiene un
vínculo estrecho con ongs y gobiernos locales. De modo, que se sigue con la política en materia de genero,
con financiamiento del presupuesto nacional.
Actualmente, el CNM ha duplicado su presupuesto y obtenido, por primera vez presupuesto para la
transferencia de recursos a Areas Mujer Provinciales y Universidades, que permitirá el fortalecimiento a través
del Plan de Acción Nacional para Erradicar la Violencia de Género, la Promoción del Microcrédito, y la



                                                       50

campaña nacional de difusión de la CEDAW, una incorporación de las organizaciones participantes del
Profam en las políticas de equidad que pone en marcha el gobierno nacional.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
La relación con el banco atravesó momentos de dificultades a pesar de que en el informe aparece como
óptima.
En primer lugar, tuvimos serias dificultades para que la task manager de oficina nacional entendiera que el
GOA quisiera revisar algunos procedimientos que trababan la ejecución del mismo en año 2004 y alinear el
desarrollo del proegrama a las políticas nacionales de promoción universal de derechos.
En segundo lugar, fue muy difícil que el banco a través de sus task manager comprendiera que la crisis del
2001 había cambiado el contexto.
En tercer lugar, las modificaciones introducidas en el manual operativo y la modificación de la matriz que se
propicio desde el GOA en 2004, fueron el resultado de negociaciones con el banco de alta complejidad y muy
extensas, que pusieron en riesgo el éxito de la segunda convocatoria por la demora del banco en autorizar la
reasignación de fondos para aumentar aquellos destinados a financiar subproyectos.
Finalmente hasta el 2005 ­el momento más critico- en cuanto a la composición de la UEN el banco se
mantuvo inflexible y autorizó que la misma funcionara con 13 personas para manejar 242 sub-proyectos en
todo el país.
No siempre la comunicación fue fluida, recién luego de una misión realizada en agosto del 2004, en la que se
fijaron acuerdos de funcionamiento entre el GOA y el Banco.
Por otro lado, no es real que haya habido muchos interlocutores. Los cambios de gestión desde la firma del
préstamo fueron los que se produjeron con los cambios de gobierno.
En referencia al punto 10.2
b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Es a partir del 2004 y no del 2005 que el CNM proporcionó asistencia técnica y ayuda administrativa para el
desempeño de los subproyectos.
Esto, a pesar la inflexibilidad del banco para autorizar ampliar la unidad ejecutora.




                                                        51

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                          52

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents


Bonder, G. and Rosenfeld, M. (2004): Equidad de Género en Argentina. Datos, Problemáticas y
Orientaciones para la Acción. PNUD-Argentina.

Consejo Nacional de la Mujer (2006): Evaluación del Proyecto PROFAM. Mimeo.

Correia, María (1999) Las Relaciones de Género en la Argentina. Un Panorama Sectorial. Región de
América Latina y el Caribe. Banco Mundial,

World Bank (2000) Argentina: Poor People in a Rich Country, (In Two Volumes) Volume 1: A Poverty
Report for Argentina. Report No 19992-AR. Washington DC

World Bank (2002) Argentina: Together We Stand, Divided We Fall. Levels and Determinants of Social
Capital in Argentina. Report N0 2481-AR. Washington DC

CNM Project Files: Subprojects Reports, Technical Reports and SubProject Evaluation Documents,
2003-2006.

Supervision and MTR Aid Memoirs and PSR/ISR 2002-2006.

Project Audit Reports, 2003-2006.

Project Files: Annual Reports.




                                                 53

