RESTRICTED
F|JIE       CJtIY 1l              Report No. P-605
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
May 29, 1968



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOt1ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR A
PM2ER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to U.S.$10 million
to the Re-public of Ghana for a power distribution project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In August 1966, the Government of Ghana requested assistance from
IDA to finance a development program to be executed by the Electricity
Corporation of Ghana (ECG). A reconnaissance mission visited Ghana in
September 1966 and advised the government on the data required for an
appraisal. An appraisal mission visited Ghana in April and again in
September 1967. It recommended that the proposed project would be suitable
for an IDA credit of about $10 million. Negotiations were held in
Washington in April 1968. The Ghanaian delegation was headed by His
Excellency E. 14. Debrah, Ambassador to the United States from Ghana, and
included among others Mr. R.K.O. Djang, Secretary, Economic Committee of
the National Liberation Council, and lHr. E.Q.H. Acquah, Managing Director
of the ECG.
3.        This would be the Association's first credit to Ghana.   A Bank
loan for $47 million was made to the Volta River Authority (VRA) in 1962
for the construction of the Volta hydroelectric scheme. The project was
substantially completed by early 1966, about one year ahead of the schedule
and at a total cost somewhat below the original estimates. After the 1962
loan, the Bank was unable to lend to Ghana, owing to serious questions
regarding general economic performance. The following is a summary regard-
ing the Volta project loan as of April 30, 1968:
Amount
Loan No.       Year       Borrower        Purpose       (U.S. $ million)
310 GH         1962       Volta River    Power                47.0
Authority
Of which has been repaid to Bank and others                  0.7
Total now outstanding                                         46.3
Amount sold                                        0.1
of which has been repaid                        0.1           -
Total now held by Bank                                        46.3
of which undisbursed                                         0.3



4.        In addition to the proposed credit, consideration is being given
to projects to provide two additional generators for the Volta River scheme
and to develop fisheries.
5.        So far, IFC has made no investment in Ghana.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
6.        Borrower        - Republic of Ghana.
Beneficiary     - Electricity CorDoration of Ghana (ECG).
Amount          - US$10 million equivalent in various currencies.
Purpose         - Rehabilitation and expansion of ECG's distribu-
tion systems in four main cities and in 16
smaller urban centers; construction of 33/11 kv
overhead transmission lines; purchase of meters,
service and construction vehicles, tools and
testing equipment, and engineering and manage-
ment consultant services.
Amortization    - Repayment  in 50 years including 10 years of
grace. Payments would be made in semi-annual
installments commencing March 1, 1978 and ending
September 1, 2017.
Service Charge  - 3/4 of 1%.
Relending Terms - The Republic of Ghana would relend the proceeds
of the credit to the ECG at 6-1/4% per annum,
to be repayable in 20 years, including a grace
period of three years.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        An ayppraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Distribution,
Expansion and Development Program of the Electricity Obrporation of Ghana"
(TO-629a) is attached.
8.        During the period 1961-1966, demand for electricity in Ghana has
grown at an average rate of 13% per annum. Sales are concentrated princi-
pally in four major cities which account for about 90% of the total demand.
Tbtal generating capacity amounts to about 678 MW. Of this, 588 MWJ is owned
and oierated by the Volta River Authority (VRA), su3 plying to an aluminum
smelter, gold and diamond mines, and to ECG. ECG owns about 90 I*T of
generating capacity.



- 3 -
9.        In conformity with its agreement with the Bank in connection
with the Volta loan, the Government established ECG as an autonomous
corporation to take over the assets and liabilities of the Electricity
Division. ECG's main function is to purchase electricity in bulk from
VRA, distribute it to consumers other than the aluminum smelter and
diamond and gold mines and also to generate and distribute electricity
in areas not served by the VRA transmission system.
10.       ECG has under way a long-range program for developing its
transmission and distribution facilities to meet the expanding demands
upon it. This program was initiated in 1966 and the present stage is
expected to be completed in 1972. It consists essentially of rehabilitation
and expansion of the distribution systems in Accra, Tema, Kumasi, Secondi-
Takoradi and in 16 smaller urban centers. It also includes provision
for 33/11 kv overhead transmission lines, expansion of existing and
construction of new diesel generating stations in areas which are not
served by the VRA transmission system, buildings, service and construction
vehicles, meters and other equipment.
11.       The total cost of the 1966-72 program is estimated at about
$42.2 million, including a foreign exchange component of about $29.8 million.
ECG will generate earnings during this period to cover all of the local
currency requirements and to provide sufficient funds to purchase from the
Government about $4.7 million as a contribution toward the foreign exchange
costs. The remaining foreign exchange requirements of $25.1 million will
be covered to the extent of $7.5 million by credits already obtained from
Germany and the United Kingdom, $10 million provided by the ,roposed IDA
credit, and $7.6 million to be provided through future external borrowings.
12.       The amount of the IDA credit, which will be applied to expenditures
under the ongoing program from July 1968 through early 1970, was all that
could be committed to this project from the limited amount of IDA funds
remaining available. Further IDA assistance to this program covering
expenditures in 1970-72 may be considered at a later date. In any case,
the works to be executed through early 1970 would fully serve their purpose
even if the remainder of the program through 1972 could not be financed
and had to be postponed.
13.       With the assistance of its consultants, ECG should be able to
execute the proposed project satisfactorily. Procurement would be on the
basis of international competitive bidding. Tenders on this basis have
been received covering about 90% of the equipment and construction require-
ments during the 1968-70 period, but no contracts have yet been awarded.
Disbursement of the proposed credit would be made only for actual foreign
exchange costs of equipment, material and services, and the foreign
exchange component of erection costs as specified in the contracts awarded.
14.       The proposed ;roject would enable ECG to meet the expanding power
demand and to make fuller use of Volta power, a lower-cost energy source
than the diesels at present in use. It would rehabilitate the distribution
system, thus reducing distribution losses. It would also bring about some



- 4 -
standardization of equipment which should allow for lower inventories and
reduced maintenance-costs.
15.       ECG began its operations on a satisfactory financial basis, with
ample working capital and a conservative debt/equity ratio of 31/69. The
decree establishing ECG directs it to prescribe its tariffs so that its
revenues will be sufficient to produce a reasonable return on the fair
value of its assets. During negotiations, it was agreed with the Government
and ECG that this return should be at least 8% and that all necessary
action, including tariff adjustments, would be taken to ensure this. ECG's
proposed financing plan for the period July 1, 1967 - December 31, 1972 is
reasonable. About 40% of total construction requirements for this period
would be met from net internal cash generation (including funds accumulated
prior to July 1, 1967). This would be after payment of debt service and
dividends of 5% - 6% on the Government equity capital, commencing in
mid 1969. The debt/equity ratio, would increase to about 50/50 by 1972, still
a satisfactory ratio.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Association
and the Republic of Ghana, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and Electricity Corporation of Ghana, and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for under Article V, Section I (d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
17.       These draft Agreements contain provisiors normally included in
agreements for power projects. Particular attention is drawn to the
provisions requiring the Borrower and ECG to take all action required to
ensure that EGG's revenues are sufficient to produce a reasonable return
on the fair value of its assets (Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement
and Section 4.01 (c) of the Credit Agreement). Detailed arrangements for
the implementation of the undertaking concerning revenues and tariffs
referred to in paragraph 14 will be embodied in an exchange of letters.
18.       The Borrower and ECG would undertake to consult the Association
regarding proposed appointments to the posts of Managing Director, Chief
Financial Officer and Chief Engineer of ECG (Section h.01 (d) of the
Credit Agreement and Section 2.03 (b) of the Project Agreement).
PART V - THE ECONO.W
19.       The report "Economic Stabilization in Ghana" (AF-75a) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on May 29 (R 68-83).
20.       The report does not attempt a new assessment of Ghana's long-
term balance of payments prospects and capital inflow requirements, since
the econonW is still in a period of transition. It concludes that, at



- 5 -
at least until further progress has been made on rescheduling Ghana's
external debt, Ghana could responsibly borrow only on concessional terms,
confirming the conclusion of the report "Stabilization and Development
in Ghana" (AF-57a) of March 14, 1967.
21.       After two years' experience of the stabilization program, it
can be said that considerable progress has been made towards the
restoration of stability, but the process is not yet complete. It appears
that the brunt of adjustment has fallen most heavily on the level of
investment, both public and private. Reduced public investment is not,
however, a cause of concern, because the public sector was clearly over-
expanded and the smaller volume is of improved quality. Some of the
basic prerequisites for greater development effort have been met but low
Central Government savings and the balance of payments constraint, with
insufficient export growth, have emerged as impediments to development,
at least in the short-term. However, Ghana has come a long way in
strengthening the public sector's capacities to implement and improve
investment, which should lead to a rising level of project aid. Invest-
ment planning in the private sector is quite active, but implementation
of these plans is severely hampered by the foreign exchange shortage.
Ghana's balance of payments position received some relief from a
rescheduling, negotiated in December 1966, of payments due through the
end of 1968 on medium-term external debt. The creditor countries agreed
in principle to hold a second Aid Group meeting at the end of 1968 to
consider relief of the external debt burden in subsequent years. Ghana
was also helped through total commitments of US$17.5 million in 1966
and US$49.2 million in 1967 as long-term aid from Denmark, Germany,
United Kingdom and United States of America. These commitments, which
include PL-h80 assistance, have a weighted average term of 34 years,
including a grace period of eight years, and an average interest rate
of 2.3%.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit complies with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
23.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:



- 6 -
RESOLUTION NO. IDA 68-
Approval of Development Credit to Republic of
Ghana in an amount equivalent to US $10,000,000
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to
Republic of Ghana in an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten
million United States dollars (U.S. $10,000,000) to mature on and prior
to September 1, 2017, to bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms
and conditions as shall be substaptially in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the form of Development Credit Agreement (Power
Distribution Project) between the Republic of Ghana and the Association
and Project Agreement (Power Distribution Project) between the Association
and Electricity Corporation of Ghana, which have been presented to this
meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
May 29, 1968



