Doment of
The World Bank
F0R OITICUAL USE ONLY
iqu,t No 12557
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2055-DJI)
NOVEBER 29, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12557
Type: PCR
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Africa Regional Office
Thi document has a noriced distriblao and mny be and by nrepients only in the prfomane of
tbew officid duties Its contens may not odhewe be dwjclosed  d   Woldd Dank auhrizato



cumacy Unit        Djibouti Franc (DP)
US$1.00             176.83 DF
bbl   barrel                     42 US gallons
GWh  giga  hour                  1,000,000 kilowat hours
kV    kilovolt                   1,000 volts
kW    kilowatt                   1,000 watts
kWh  kilowatt hour               1,000 watt hours
m     meter                      3.28 feet
MW   megwatt                     1,000 kllowatts
MWh megawatt hour                1,000 kllowatt hours
-DRGM                            French geological and mining agency
EdD                              Electricity company Djibouti
ENEL                             Itlian national power company
Govenment                        Government of Djibouti
IDA                              Inenal Development Association
OPEC                             Or ion of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCR                              Project Completion Report
PPP                              Poject Preparation Facity
UNDP                             United Nations Development Program
USc                              United States cet
EJn AL  em
January I - D)ecmbet 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washigton, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Dizsetor-Gaeral
operations Evalution
November 29, 1993
MEHORABDUM To THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TME PRESIDENT
SUBJECT5    Project Completion on Djibouti
Geothermal Develooment Pro1ect (Credit 2055-DJI)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Djibouti - Geothermal
Development Project (Credit 2055-DJI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office,
with Part TI provided by the Borrower.
The project, which was to be co-financed by the Italian Government,
OPEC and UNDP, aimed at helping meet the country's electric power demand through
the use of indigenous geothermal energy. However, it was not implemented (except
for a US$ 250,000 PPF advance) and most of the loan (962) was canceled, as IDA
concluded that the project could not be economically justified in the face of
significant delays in project start up. The latter resulted froms (1) a lack of
agreement among the parties, from the outset, on the basic technical design of
the project; and (ii) difficulties in mobilizing the Italian grant.
In retrospect, it is clear that such basic issues should have been
resolved before approval of the IDA credit, particularly since similar issues had
marred the previous geothermal exploration project (Credit 1488-DJI). In Part
II, the Borrower confirms its disagreement with IDA on technical issues and
argues that the project should proceed, although in a more phased manner.
Since the project was not implemented as it was no longer
economically justified, it is not rated. The PCR is reasonably informative but
no coments wvere requested from co-financiers.
An audit of Djibouti's geothermal program may be carried out in the
future.
Attachment
This docamnt has a restricted distribution snd my be used by recipients onty ft. the pirfo     of
their offtel at duties. Its contents my not otherwls be disclosed without WorLd tek2* 3thorut1ion.



FOR OMCIA USE ONLY
PROMCr OMLEnION REPORT
GEO7THERMAUL DEVELODPMENT PROJE!M:t
(C,REDIT 2055-fX)
TABLE OF
PREFACE .........     i
EVALUAION SUMMARY ................... , .,                                      ii
PART I: PROJECr REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIvE ..    1
Project Identity .1
Background . ............................................                 1
Project Objectives and Description.                                       2
Project Design and Organization.                                          3
Project Implementation .......................                            4
Bank Perormance                             .5
Bornower Performance                          .5
Project Relationship.                                                     6
Consulting Services.                                                      6
Project Documentation and Data.                                           6
Lessons Learned ..........................                                6
PART I: PROJECr REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTVE.    7
Introduction ......................................,                      7
Principal Issues.                                                         7
Different Approaches to Project Design.                            7
Cause of Delay.                                                    9
Project Implementation.                                                   9
Conclusions .10
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .11
IDA Related Credits .11
Project Timetable .12
Financing Plan at Apprais (US$ Miflion) .13
Use of IDA Resources .14
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



JEcr CMLEND PREOErT
lTis is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Geothermal Development Project
for which Credt 2055-DJI of SDR 7.1 million was approved in 1989. The Credit was closed
on December 31, 1992 and the undisbursed balance of SDR 6.8 million was cancelled. The PCR
covrs the period 1989-1992.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of the South-Central
and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Region, and EdD, the national power company of Djiboutl
and the implementing agency of the Borrower, which contribbted Part II of this PCR.
The PCR is based, intrfalia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit and Project
Agreements, coepondence between IDA, the Borrower, other donors and consultants,
supervision reports and interal memoranda.



Q1ZCOMPMMON RPR
- IIBO-x
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Objeie. The project's main objective was to assist Djibouti in the replacement and
expansion of its electric generat  capacity at least cost hough the utilization of 'Migeneous
geotherma energy resources.
2.      ==                .  Overall IDA's experience with this credit was disappointing.
In retrospect, the risk of failure was higb. Building upon experience gained under an earlier
exploration project, the development project was to confirm the existence of the resource through
the drflling of addiional wells and provide for the installation of a power plant and related
eqipment. T rihelling of new weUs was to have begun in early 1990, In order for a geothermal
power plant to begin operation in 1993, in time to meet the growth of demand. Otherwise an
investment in additional fuel-fired capacity would have to be underta*en. Timing was therefore
a key element in the justification of the project because of a window of opportmuty' created by
the retirement of old diesel plants and demand growth. IDA considered the results of the
exloration carried out under the Geothermal Exploration Project (Cr. 1488-DJI) sufficieady
positive to proceed with a development project. The Consultants which the Italian Govrment
selected t help with the development project, were however of the opinion that further
exploration was needed before launching the development phase. ITis difference of opinion over
the design of the project surfaced after the project was approved by the Board in 1989. After
protracted discussions, no satisfy solution to this problem could be found.
3.    Delays in project implementation raised doubts about the capacity of geothermal energy
to satisfy the demand for electricity in a timely maner. In late 1991, IDA's concern led to an
indeendent revev of the economic justification of the project. This study, which was completed
In Juy 1992, concluded that the project was no longer the least cost means to satisfy the demand
for electricity in Djibouti. In any event, in ealy 1992, civil unrest in the northem part of
Djibout made the project area inaccessible.
4.    On November 19, 1992, IDA informed the Govemment of Djibouti and the cofinancier
of Its intention not to extend the closing date of the credit of December 31, 1992. The credit was
effectively closed on December 31, 1992 and the undisbursed balance was cancelled. Out of the
original amount of SDR 7.1 million that was approved, SDR 6.8 million were cancelled. lhe
amount disbursed under the PPF advance was SDR 0.25 million.
S.       s        Leaned. The project was risky and it failed because delays in reaching
agreement among cofinanciers on a course of action for implementation undermined its
justification. The lessons learned are as follows:



- liii-
(a)    The risks should be clearly identified both with respect to the physical availability
and quality of geothrma  resources and the possibility of failure of
Implementadon arrangements;
(b)    A risky project could be justified but only if all pates concerned In its
implementation have a consensus on how to make it work;
(c)   IDA should provide funding for consultancy services in critical areas of the
pmject it finances;
(c)    With the Introduction of new technologies, up-front strengthening of local staff
or provision of an 'in-houseT  expertise is essential if the country andor the
executing agency Is to have a say in project design and implementation; and
(d)    When time is of essence for the success of the project, conditions of effectiveness
involving third parties are not appropriate and key actions should be taken before
Board presentation.



CREWI 20"5mmW
PART I   RECT REVlhW  FR AM B'     PERSPECTI
1.    Prje ldentit
Name                      : Geothermal Development Project
Credit Number             : Credit 2055-DJI
RVP Unit                  : Africa Region, Country Department m
County                    : Republic of Djibouti
Sector                    : Energy
Subsector                 : Power
2.     sgia
2.01   The presence of a geothermal resource in Djibouti has been known for a long time and
various effrts financed by UNDP and other sources have been made to develop it, in the past.
Becase of the high cost of imported fuel, on which Djibouti was enredy dependent, the
development of the geothemal resource looked like an interestng alternative for electricity
generation. In 1982, the Goverment requested IDA to help finance a new round of exploration
and in November 1984, a credit agreement (Cr. 1488-DI)7  was signed for that purpose.
Additional funding was provided by the Govemment of Italy, UNDP, the OPEC Fund, the
African Development Bank and the Government of Djibouti. The French Government made
available to the project, the services of BRGM, its geological and mining research agency.
2.02  A major delay in the startp of the project was experienced due to late signature of an
agreement between the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Aquater, the firm responsible for
project supervision. Because of this delay, the implementation of the project was about eighteen
months behind schedule, necessitating two extensions of the closing date.
2.03  The overall results of the exploration effort were disappointing. Two deep wells, Hanle
1 and 2, were drilled in the Hanle/Gaggade area, in the western part of the country. The
temperatures were found to be too low to be of interest for power development and the
exploration effort in the Hande area was abandoned. Exploration moved to the Assal area where,
in the 1970s, BRGM had encountered a geothermal resource in a well designated as Assal 1.
This well produced a brine which was supersaturaed with dissolved solids such as sulfides, silica
and carbonates, known to cause scaling problems both within wells and on steam processing
equipment. Assal 3, 4, 5 and 6 were drilled, sometimes with haste. Assal 3 and 6 were found



.2-
to be promisag, lthough heavily uraed with dissolved solids. With hindsight, this
exploaion program lacked a clear sene of direction and was haphazad.
2.04  Ihe Project Compledon Report of the Geothermal Exploraton Project was completed in
April 1991, after the ap    of the Geothemal Development Projet (Credit 2055-DJI) in
Ju/July 1988. The letions leaned were: (i) when a project groups many participants, the
projt erntty must tak the eal role for coordination and communication among the various
particpts and must be clearly accountable for decisions taken; (ii) the responsibilitiesof agents
of the project execution entity must be defined and officially agreed upon very early in the project
execution stage to avoid overlaps of authority and/or gaps in responsibility; (iii} consultation
proces should be clearly defined and fully utilized to avoid subsequent disputes over decisions
taken; and (iv) excessive delays In the unblocking of cofinanciers' funs should be cause to re-
examine the project financing plan.
3.    PromLee Qbcti!xj and D.caiDno
3.01 .rojT Qb3Sves lhe projects main objective was to assist Djibouti in the replacement
and expansion of its electric geatng capacity at least cost through the utilization of indigenous
geothermal energy res  .
3.02  Pwect Do n: The Geothermal Development Project (Credit 2055-DJI) provided
for.
(a)    Scaing Iulin to insure that generaing equipment, wel tubes and steam
ahering sstem are designed in a way which takes full account of the specific
naue of the corosion effects linked to the salinity of the brine;
(b)   Nomad Settlement Impact Study to spell out issues which may arise from a
poteni settlement of nomads in the area of the drilling activities;
(c)   DMiIIinl in the Lake Assal area of four deep production and replacement wells
(about 2000 m deep), including necesay consunables;
(d)   Co ena  surface exploration woksa in the Lake Assal area, including
grvity and electrical resistivity surveys and related studies;
(e)    O Installation gf 2x5 MW power plant (Imcluding wellfield equipment) and Qi)
a 1MW well head unit and desalination pant
()    Installation-of In eJI a miss ion line fom the LakeAssal Area to Djibouti
city; and
(g)    iehia Assistance to Eleuicite de Djibouti M. Tfe poe utility including:
(i consultg services for fur&ter project preparation (PPF financed); (iH) services
of project management and supervision for three years; (iii) engineering services
for de supervision of the deep drilling operations and the carrying out of related
speciized services (oggig, testing, etc.); (iv) training; and (v) equipment and
vehicles.



-3-
4.    e tmiI gmnd OQnanization
4.01 The project was appraised in June/luly 1988. It was co-financed by the Government of
Italy, the OPEC Fund, TJNDP, the Government of Djiboud and EdD.
4.02  However, there was no consensus amwng cofinaciers on the project concept. The major
issue was whether geothennal energy had reached the development stage in Djibouti. Of the four
wells drilled under the exploration project in the Assal Area, two were satisfactory steam
producing wells, which gave results indicative of a reservoir". IDA considered the results of
the exploration sufficiently positive to proceed with a development project. Under this project,
four ew wells were to be drilled, starting in early 1990, in order for a geothermal power plant
to begin operaton in 1993. Timing was considered a key element in the justification of the
project because of a "window of opportunity created by the retirement of old diesel plants and
demand growth: should a geothennal plant not be ready for installation to meet demand,
investment in additional fuel-fired capacity would have to be undertaken. The Government of
Italy, through its consultants, on the other hand was of the opinion that the feasibility of a
geothermal development in the Assal Area had not been established and the project was not ready
to enter the development phase untl further exploration wells proved the existence of a reservoir,
a preequisite for developing a resource of this type.
4.03  A program was agreed In October 1990 among all parties (the Italian Miistry of Foreign
Affairs, the consultant, Djibouti and IDA) to proceed with the development phase if the results
from drilling the two new deep wells were positive. In spite of tis, the Cooperation Agreement
signed in November 1990 between the consultants and EdD made a provision for a firm decision
on the development phase only after completion of four new deep wells to be fianced by IMA
as well as the clean-out of two existing wells. That meant that electricity of geothermal origin
would not have been available before 1997 at the earliest, nearly four years after the time set for
completion of the project. On this basis, entry-on-stream of the geothermal power plant would
have fallen outside the *window of opportunity" which justified IDA's involvement in the project.
4.04 The arrangements under which services were to be provided under the Italian grant for
supervising the implementation of IDA's financed project were inappropriate. The Cooperation
Agreeme  was not so much a mutual agreement between the consultants and EdD as an
enumeration of the services the consutants would provide. The consultn  had the exclusive
right of coordination, general supervision and technical assistance for any activity under the
project. The only control EdD could have exercised over the services it would receive was
tbrough its approval of progress reports and official declarations of services rendered before
payment was released by the Italian Govenment under its contract with the consultants.
However, given the general terms in which the consultant's responsibilities and the activities it
were to carry out were described, it was nearly impossible for EdD to challenge either the quality
or the appropriat  of the consultant's services. The Djiboutians had little cotrol over the
grant-funded technical assistance and were not in a position to influence the consutant
4.05 IDA and the consultants also differed in their approach to solving the main technical
problem of developing Djibouti's geothermal resource: scaling. The Assal resource consists of
a supersa       brine with dissolved solids which can cause incrustation and corrosion in the
wells and on steam separation and power generating equipment Various technical solutions are
employed in geothermal fields worldwide for controlling these problems. To determine the most
appropriate and least-cost solution for treatng the Djibutia. brine, a broad range of solutions



-4-
was to have been studied, before Credit effecttveness, financed by a PPF advance. However,
as procurement directives were not followed, IDA refused to finance the study. Once lDA
withdrew, the study lost direction and was reoriented by the consultant toward its preferred
solution: the use of chemical inhibitors. It should be noted that the Assal deep aquifer geothermal
resource conts metal sulfides. These impurities have proven to be particularly difficult and
epensive to remove at geothermal fields and installations elsewhere in the world.  M)A
considered the chemical inhibitor solution to be high cost and technically questionable.
S.
5.01 The Geothermal Development Credit (Cr. 2055-DJI) was approved by the Board on June
9, 1989 and signed in October 16, 1989. Effectiveness was delayed by more than a year. The
conditions of effectiveness were: (i) effectiveness of the Italian grt financing; (li) signatr of
the agreeme  (in form of a contract) between EdD and ENEL, satisfactory to IDA, stipulating
the details of their assistance and supervision program throughout the project; (ii) availability of
final results of the scaling study; and (iv) signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
Government and EdD in a form acceable to IlDA. The credit became effective in April 1991.
5.02   The Project never took off the grund. The fundamental differences between the donors
on project design constituted the weak point of the project. Problems in unblocking the Italian
funding and the lack of clarity In the consultants' mandate added one year and a half delay to the
implementation schedule foreseen at appraisal. IDA repeatedly warned that continued delays In
the implementation of the project would endanger its justificaion, but to no avail. In late 1991,
IDA decided to recruit an independent consultant to review the demand projections and the
economic justification of the project.
5.03 The study was undertaken in April-May 1992 and the report, which IDA endorsed, was
isued In July of the same year and sent to Djibouti. After reviewing the demand projections and
the comparison between geothermal and diesel based power development, the study concluded
at the project was no longer the least-cost means of meeftig the demand for electricity in
Djibouti. The major underlying factors were: () a substantial increase in project costs since its
approval by the Board in 1989, from US$38.0 million to about US$60.0 million; (ii) lower
demand growth than expected. This demand could be statisfied by the existing capacity and a
new capacity addition would not be necessary until 1998; and (Mii) lower fuel costs. The
economic comparison of the geothermal and diesel alternatives gave the following results:
- Gtbhermal:                           11.38 US cents/kWh
- Desel:
at 15 US$/barrel                 4.24 US cents/kWh
at 20 USStbarrel                 4.67 US centslkWh
at 30 US$1barrel                 5.52 US cents/kWh
at 40 US$/barrel                 6.37 US cents/kWh.
Therefore, under the most pessimistic scenario examined (intenational petroleum price of USS
40 per barrel), the esdmated production cost of a kWh from a diesel based development would
be USc 6.37 against USc 11.38 frm geothermal.



-5-Z
5.04 The closing date of December 31, 1991 was extended twice: the first extension to Jane
30, 1992 and the second to December 31, 1992. On November 19, 1992, IDA informed the
Government of Djlibouti and the Italian Government of its intention not to extend the closing date
of the project when it comes due. On December 28, 1992, IDA confirmed its decision not to
etend the closing date and to cancel the undisbursed balance of the Credit. Out of the original
amtount of SDit 7.1 mlllion that was approved, SDR 6,846650.56 were cancelled. The amount
disbursed under the PPF advance was SDR 253,349.44.
6.    Bank -erformane
6.01  The drllling contemplated under the project was of an exploratory nature. Exploration
was combined with the development of the resource even though its quantity and quality were
not well apprehended. The project was risky and It failed because delays in reaching agreements
among cofinnciers on a course of action for implementation undermined its justification.
6.02   Only limited lnforination was gained from the scaling and corrosion study, additional data
and analysis were needed before the development of Djibouti's geothermal resource could de
iitiated. IDA recognized that an important part of the additional information could only bave
been obtained by drilling two additional wells. The consultants later insisted on the drilling of
four wells.
6.03 In a complex undertaking like the Geothermal Development Project, the financing of the
consultats should have been provided by IDA to ensure a timely and proper implementation of
the project. EdD had little Influence on the methods and the timing of activities of the consultants
which considered the Italian Government as its client, not Djibouti. Ite timely availability of
funds to pay for the consultants' services from the donor's grant and lae contracts signature have
also been a problem, the same as those experienced with the financing from the same donor for
the earlier project.
7   ,Bg r
7.01 The Djiboutian authorities had little command over the project as major actions were
decided by outsiders. The Government of Djibouti was in a difficult position since, for much of
the life of the Credit, it did not have any strong "in-house geothermal expertise nor did it have
regular access to information on state-of-the art geothermal technology from elsewhere in the
world. Tbus, for techical advice, the Djiboutians were almost totally dependent on sporadic,
long-distance contact with the consultants and, to a lesser extent IDA. This made them much
more subject to the consultants' direction than might have otherwise been the case. On the other
hand, they could have insisted on having the consultant accountable to them and not to the
donor's Government.
7.02 IDA advice not to purchase a used drilling rig was ignored and a substantial amount of
money was needlessly spent by EdD in refurbishing it. The Djiboutians later intended to use for
the drilling of the shallow wells, but with the project area closed for security reasons for more
than a year, the rig is presumably used to drill for water.



-6-
8. 1
8.01 IDA's reladonship with the Government and the executing agency were consistenly
afable. Strnous efforts were made by IDA to reach solutions acceptable to all parties and to
bridge out differenes on project design with the consultants, but the results were not encouraging
and fimdamental differences between the parties on the development of Djibouti's geothfermal
resources  mned significant.
9.  ru
9.01  lhe consultants were under contract to their Government and not to EdD and therefore
felt no obligation towards Djibouti. The Cooperation Agreement signed between the consultants
and EdD was reviewed by IDA and found unacceptable, primarily because EddD had no remedies,
should ffie consultants' perfommce proved to be unsatisfactory. The consultants persisted In
using chemical inhibits and ignored IDA advice to try out other well known processes to
prevent scaling. Had a contract been signed directly between the consultants and EdD, the results
might have been different.
10.   Proet Documntatlon and Data
10.1  Sufficient informaion and data were available in the project's file to prepare this project
completion repott. The back to offlce reports of the numerous meetings held between IDA, the
Italian Government, the consultants, EdD and the Government of Djibouti were particularly
usefl as was the project completion report of the Geothermal Exploration Project (Credit 1488-
DID).
11.
11.1. The project was risky and it failed because delays in reaching agreement among
cofinanciers on a course of action for implementation undermined Its justification. The lessons
learned are as follows:
(a)    The risks should be clearly identified both with respect to the physical availability
and quality of geothermal resources and the possibility of failure of
inplementation arrangements;
(b)    A risky project could be justified but only if all parties concerned in its
implementation have a consensus on how to make it work;
(c)   IDA should provide funding for consultancy services in critical areas of the
project it finaces;
(c)    With the introduction of new technologies, up-front strengthening of local staff
or provision of an 'in-house expertise is essential if the country and/or the
executing agency is to have a say in project design and implementation; and
(d)    When time is of esence for the success of the project, conditions of effectiveness
involving third parties are not appropriate and key actions should be taken before
Board presention.



-7
EART }IrRQIC R aFROM THE BORRO-W-09S PEW=EV
1.    1ntodcdo
1.1   The objective of the Geothermal Development Project in the Republic of Djibouti was
to exploit geothermal energy on an economically and financially competitive basis, in order to:
(a)   reduce the cost of electric power, in particular the proportion of that cost in
foign exchange;
(1)    establish a national resource base for present needs and for industrial
development In the coming years;
(c)    diversify existing energy resources within the Republic of Djibouti.
1.2   It is Important to note that geothennal energy is a national resource that does not follow
the flucuato  of the interational market.
1.3   In the area of gethermal research and development, a wide variety of disciplines have
so far been used, together yielding a wealth of scientific and technical data (surface studies,
gradient holes, deep well drilling, studies of selected aspects, etc.).
1.4    However, the results of the exploratry wells and of the scaling study revealed a complex
problem caused by:
-     scaling, resulting from the fact that the brine in this reservoir Is highly saline and
contains large amounts of sulphur and silica;
-     uneven permeability levels in the area.
On the other hand, there is a large, highly permeable aquifer at a depth of 400-600 m, with a
temperate of around 130° C, appropriate for binary power plant use.
2.      jninal  k
Different approaches to project desip
2.1    The fist exploratory phase, completed in July 1988 in the Assal geothermal field,
confirmed the existence of a high-enthalpy geothermal reservoir with excessively saline brine.
Before a st  could be made on the next phase, involving drilling of new development wells and
installation of geothermal plant faclitides for energy production, an examination of the first-phase
data revealed two essental problems:



-8-
brine supersaturated with salts causes scaling within wells and in surface facilities
as well as producing corrosion, making periodic maintenance essential;
what are the costs of providing well and surface facility maintenance, and what
is their impact on the economic rate of return of the project to develop the
geothermal resources of the deep reservoir in the Assal field?
For these reasons, the Djibouti authorities commissioned a scaling and corrosion study with a
view to obtaining data essential to the reduction of risks during the development phase.
2.2 The study was carried out jointly by VIRKIR-ORKINT and ENEL. It identified the
nature of maintenance-related problems, and offered a number of recommendations on the
mechanical cleaning of wells and surface facilities, on the use of Inhibitors, and the costs of the
two alternatives.
2.3   The thamodynamic method, consisting of applying sufficient pressure at the wellhead
to avoid scaling in the well, cannot be used at Assal because pressure of over 20 bars kills the
well (while in California's geothermal fields, pressure of 30-40 bars is applied, with flows
permitting an economic rate of return).
2.4    t is in this context that phase II of the project should be considered, and herein lies the
root of the difference of opinions concerning its design.
2.5   In the mind of the World Bank experts, phase II of the geothermal project was a classic
phase of geothermal development involving no risk at all. Such an approach favored the
Immediate drilling of development wells and installation of geothermal power plants without
sufficient technical or economic data to guarantee the project's rate of return. This is clear from
the fact that the fiacial package and credit effectiveness were not dependent on the results of
the scaling study. This attitude on the part of the Bank experts failed to take into account the
project's considerable risks.
2.6   In this sense, the Djibouti authorities' approach to the project, as well as that of their
consultant, ENEL, differed considerably from that of the Bank. The Djiboutians did not see
phase II as a geothermal development phase, but as a phase to be implemented through the
following programs:
-     scaling and corrosion study to determine which technologies should be used to
avoid scaling in wells and surface facilities;
-     drilling of two additional deep wells to study the size and capacity of the Assal
geotherma resevoir;
-     carrying out of an economic feasibility study to estimate the project's economic
rate of return;
-     lasldy, if the technology can be mastered to allow the economic viability of the
project, drilling of two development wells to initiate the geothermal development
phase at Assal.



2.7   lhe Djibouti authorities made evety effort to convince the World Bank both to reduce
the project risks and to adopt a phased approach to Investment. It was not unil almost two years
after the sign  of the Credi that World Bank expert Mchd Patou came aund to accting
this concept and urged the World Bank to adopt it.
Caus  of delay
2.8   Tn our opinion, there were five main reasons why the progrm fell behind schedule.
(a)   Different opons on poect desi
lhe different opinions described above led to many discussions between the Djibuians, the
Consut and the Wold Bank, as they attempted to ftd ways and meas of mnimizing the
project's risk.
(b)    lhian fnancing
The protracted delay in effectiveness of the Italian grant prevented ENEL from mobltizing
quickly.
(C)   Recutent gf Con1sultant
Following the decision by the National Commission on Public Works Contracts, it took
the Bank a long time to approve the choice of the Consultant for the scaling and corrosion study,
even though it was obvios that for comparable quality of service the proposal submitted by the
firm selected by Djibouti was 40% lower than that of the firm recomended by the Bank.
Eventaly, the Djiboutians were obliged to finance the services of the Consultant awarded the
scaling study.
(d) Technical slecifications for deep wells
The differences of opinion between ENEL and the Bank resulted in substantial delays in
the application of the tecical specifications.
(e)    Porc mW
The reason for the delay in project execution has been the situation prevailing in the
Republic of Djibouti, particularly from November 1991 onwards in the Assa area, making it
impossible to cafry out any project activities.
3.    Pt     IMMMtb
3.1 The different Ideas regarding the methodology to be used in project implementation and
the delays in project execution were major obstacles to the success of the project.
3.2   in our view, as soon as the donots and borrower choose a consultant, he should be
enbtusted with responsibility for the methodology to be used, even though the donors and the
borrower can and should give their opinion on project execution, delays and results.



-10-
3.3   In this case, th delays were attributable pary to the difnt approaches to project
design and partly to the complexities of processing the Italian grat.
4.      C     _
4.1    Despite all the difficulties encountered up to now and the widely-recognized complexity
of the various issues, the Djiboutians have not given up on the geothermal project and are hoping
that the World Bank, mindfid of the lessons of the past, will not go to the extreme of abandoning
the project. Clearly what is to blame is not geothermal energy itself but the inappropriate
metodology adopted.
4.2   The Djiboudan recommend a reorientation of the project based on the documen
prepared by Bank epert Michel Patou (pp. 34-35, wevaluation and coordination," 6.6). The frst
phae would conist of testng the shallow aquifer and deerminig the technical and economic
condtons for its exploitation. Should the results of these trials be positive, a binary, maximum
1-MW [? 4-MWI, system should be salled to test the aquifer and train Djiboutlan personnel
in this type of procedure.
4.3 Should the results of the pilot plant be conclusive after one or two years, it would then
be desirable to proceed to the development phase, drilling other wells and installing larger power
plants that would be appropdately distributed throughout the area.
4.4 However, should the shallow aquifer prove unexploitable, it would be recommendable
to drill two deep demarkation wells (to a depth of around 2,000 m) and to carry out a complete
technical and economic study comprising further scaling studies and the results of lbora
reearch on inhibitors. The ensuing program would be decided on the basis of these results.
4.5   Our recommendatons would lead to a phased investment program, the only way of
overcoming, or at least m=nmizing, the financial risks. This approach allows decisions to be
taken with a certain flexibility as progress is made.



PAItT M:
1.   IDA   a  Ci
crait Nuab.t                   P*c rTu                         APProA1 Da.                    Faupo.                          s       ta$
Cr. 1488 DJI                   Oacdu ExPIdm PmJ.ct    1984                                    To exoe th counys7 Only         Credi     d an  J.  0, 30,91
known ouc of mAineral eergy    coe year nd a haf bebind
in ordor to yad comm-ealy        hdub. PCR. pIm
e,_apobable  o       r         t01).



Plaed            Acta
Final Exeutive Project Summary                      06/2611988
Appraisa Mission                    06/2911988  Juinauly 1988 JV
Credit Negotiatons                                 05118-19I1989
Board Appoval                       1211511988      06/29/1989
Credit Signature                                    10/16/1989
Credit Effecdveness                 02116/1990    04/29/1991 ai
Credit Closing                      12/31/1991     12131/1992 1/
1/ A postaas upat on EdD wa carried ot in Marh 1989.
I Limi dae 1i eflecven  was posmpond fu dimes: fom Fu   16, 1990 to October IS, 1990
Ihm Ocober 15, 1990 to Deember 28, 1990
fiom December28, 1990 to March 29,1 991; and
finm Mah 29, 199 to Apri 29, 1991.
I Tho Cosing Dat was posmponed wico:        firm Deemnber31, 1991 to June 30, 1992; and
from Jun 30, 1992 to Daember31, 1992.



- 13-
3.           IiE1nnha.rhlanat DD.aisi dJ(USS Million)
IDA &I/    tly    OPEC/U   Govt/D         Total
___________________                      ~~~~~~~ND ?  D
1. Bidding douments & TORs        0.10                                     0.10
2. Special Studies                0.85      0.10                           0.95
3. Purcbaseiwork-over of A_I      0.12                          4.83       4.95
4. Ddlling (4 wells) & conumables  7.10                         0.30       7.40
5. Wellfield Equipment         _            3.00 7   7  ____               3.00
6. Power Plant 2xSMW)                       7.00   _          _            7.00
7. Power Plant (lxlMW)                  _             1.30   _     _  _   1.30
8. Electical Transmission                   4.47                           4.47
9. Housing/Contol Buiding                                       0.50       0.50
10. Drig Superson                          0.62                           0.62
11. Project Magement                        0.72                           0.72
12. Tehnical Ascahme to EdD                 1.81                           1.81
Total                          8.17      18.02      1.3       5.33      32.82
Physical    cie(10%) k/           0.82       1.80      0.06      0.05       2.80
iPdc contingencies, /             0.21       2.22      0.04      0.01       2.42
Grand Total                    9.20      22.04      1.40      5.40      38.04
(etcluding iDere during consrucdon)
A/ Out of the original amount of SDR 7.1 million that wu approved, SDR 6.8 million was cancelled.
Th amount disbursed under the PPF advan  was SDR 0.25 million.
k/ excuding conwncies an the purcas amount
(US$4.5 million) of item # 3



0
- ~- - - 
o        P         i0 &t
- )   -     U)



