Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7762-DJI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 8, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only In the performauce of



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  DF
US$1.00        =  DF 177.72
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cm - centimeter         =   0.39 inches
1 m - meter               =   3.28 feet
1 m3 - cubic meter        =   264 US gallons
1 1 - liter               =   0.26 US gal'ons
1 bbl - barrel            =   42 US gallons
1 kg - kilogram           -   2.2 pounds
1 km - kilometer          =   0.62 miles
1 km2 _ square kilometer  =   0.39 square miles
1 t - ton                 -   2,205 pounds
1 kW - kilowatt           =   1,000 watts
1 MW - megawatt           =   1,000 kilowatts
1 kWh - kilowatthour      =   2,000 watthours
1 GWh - gigawatthour          1 million kilowatthours
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BAD     -  Banque Africaine de Developpement (African Development Bank)
BRGM    -  Bureau de Recherches Geologiques et Minibres
CCCE    -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CFP     - Professional Training Center
EdD     - Electricite de Djibouti
EdF     - Electricite de France
ENEL    -  Italian National Power Board
EPH     - Etablissement Public des Hydrocarbures
FADES   - Arab Economic and Social Development Fund
KF      - Kuwait Fund
ISERST  -  Institut Superieur d'Etudes et de Recherches Scientifiques et
Techniques
MMB     - Million barrels
OPEC    - Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
TIC     -  Internal Consumption Tax
TOE     -  Tons of Oil Equivalent in Heating Value
UNDP    - United Nations Development Program
USAID   - United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(i)-(iii)
Introduction  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
Part I.   THE SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
The Economic Setting   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Overview   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    1
Recent Developments    . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . 2
The Energy Sector   . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . 3
Overview   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    3
Domestic Energy Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Energy Sector Institutions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Energy Sector Objectives, Issues and Strategy  . . . . 6
Petroleum Prices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
The Power Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Oijerview  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    a
Power Sector Investment Program  . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Tariffs  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
Part II.  BANK GROUP LENDING STRATEGY   . . .11
Part III. BENEFICIARY ..................... . 12
Electricite de Djibouti   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Organization, Management and Staff   . . . . . . . . . 12
Training            . . . ..3...... 13
Operations, Maintenance and Losses   . . . . . . . . . 13
Financial Planning and Budgeting   . . . . . . . . . . 14
Accounting System        ...14
Commercial System . ........                ...   14
EdD's Financial Position and Past Operatirng Results  . 15
Audi.t             .......... . 19
Taxes    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .   .    .  19
Insurance and Asset Valuation  . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Transfer of Government Financed Assets . . . . . . . . 19
Future Financial Position and Operations of EdD  . . . 20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Djibouti
in June/July 1988. Mission members included Christian Schmidt (AF3IE),
Miguel Montes (EMTIE), Jack Warren (AFTIE), Peter Beard and James Koenig
(consultants). A post-appraisal update on EdD was carried out by
Ms. Mersman (consultant) in March 1989.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Part IV.  THE PROJECT ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 22
Background  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 22
Project Objectives and IDA's Role . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Scaling Study   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 24
Nomad Settlement Impact Study . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Drilling Operation  ....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 24
Consumables   . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Purchase of existing wells  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Drilling Supervision  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 24
Studies .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 24
Installation of Generating Equipment
and Surface Facilities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Z5
Installation of a 1MW Well-head Generator . . . . . . . 25
Installation of a Single Circuit Transmission Line  . . 25
Overall Project Management and Training for
EdD Personnel   ....  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .   . 25
Project Costs ....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .   . 25
Financing  Plan    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26
Project Implementation and Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Procurement           ..28
Disbursements           ..29
Monitoring and Reporting  . . . . ... . . . . . .   . . . 29
Environment           ..29
Part V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Economic Rate of Return .31
Background    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
Methodology   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32
Plant Characteristics & Fuel Costs  . . . . . . . . . . 32
Geothermal Plant .32
Results of the Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Economic Rate of Return .33
Benefits .34
Risks.                             .  .  . . . . . . 34
Part VI. AC4REEMENTS .34
Agreements Reached .34
Conditions of Effectiveness.                            36
Dated Covenants .35



ANNEXES
1.     Power Sector
1.01   Electricity Supply Statistics for the Djibouti Network 1971-1987
1.02   Electricity Consumption and Losses in the Djibouti Network 1971-1987
1.03   Basic Indicators for Load Forecast Scenarios
1.04   Load F.recast 1988-2000
A: Reference Forecast (Djibouti City Network)
B: Growth Forecast (Djibouti City Network)
1.05   Capability of Existing Generating Plant on Djibouti Network
1.06   Performance Characteristics of Diesel Generating  !ant
1.07   Energy in the Economy
1.08   Power Histograms (1987)
1.09   Load Duration Curves (1987)
1.10   Composition of EdD Fuel Price
2.     EdD
2.01   Organization Chart
?.02   Asset Valuation Study - Terms of Reference
2.03   Geothermal Training Program (including ISERST assistance)
2.04   Staffing Profile of Geothermal Division
2.05   Consultancy Services for the Geothermal Division
3.     Present EdD Tariff Structure
4.     Ed' - Past and Proiected Financial Statements
4.01   Profit and Loss Statement (1986-1988)
4.02   Balance Sheet (1986-1988)
4.03   Investment Program
4.04   Assumptions for Projections
4.05   Projected Profit and Loss Statement
4.06   Projected Balance Sheets
4.07   Cash-Flow Projection and Ratios
5.     Draft Cooperation Agreement EdD-ENEL
6.     Implementation Schedule
7.     Schedule of Disbursements



Annexes (continued)
8.     Economic Analysis
8.01   Estimated Phasing of Capital Expenditure
8.02   Net Present Value of:
(1) Base Case (10 NW G-eothermal by 1993) with projected fuel prices
(2) Base Case (all Diesel Option)
(3)  Base Case (10 MW Geothermal by 1993) with constant fuel prices
(4) Base Case (all Diesel Option) with constant fuel prices
(5)  Sensitivity of No. (1): 20% capital cost increase
(6!  Sensitivity of No. (1): early reservoir depletion (geothermal
maintenance cost + 20% and replacement wells in 1999, 2005 and
2011)
(7)  Sensitivity of No. (1): 1 year implementation delay
(8)  Growth Case Scenario of No. (1)
(9)  Growth Case Scenario of No. (2)
8.03   (1)  Economic Rate of Return Analysis
(2) Assumptions on Calculation of Internal Economic Rate of Return
(3) Economic Rate of Return
8.04   Findings of Previous Studies on Geothermal Energy
8.05   Geothermal/Diesel Comparison
(Reference Forecast; Growth Forecast)
9.     List of Documents in the Prolect File



DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Republic of Djibouti
Beneficiary:          Electricite de Djibouti (EdD)
Amount:                SDR 7.1 million (US$ 9.2 million equivalent)
out of a total project cost of US$ 38.04 million.
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms (40 years)
On-Lending Terms:      Fifty percent of credit proceeds are onlent from
Government to EdD at 8.5Z (IBRD rate at negotiation
plus IOZ thereof), repayment over 20 years including a
grace period of five years. EdD carries the foreign
exchange risk. The remaining fifty percent is an
equity contribution of Government to EdD.
Cofinancing:           Italian Government with a grant of US$22.0 million, and
a joint OPEC/UNDP grant of US$1.4 million.
Project Description:
Objectives:            The project's principal objective is to assist Djibouti
in the necessary replacement and expansion of its
electric generating capacity at least cost through
utilization of indigenous geothermal energy resources.
Components:            The project consists of the components below, of which
the IDA credit would finance items (a), (b), (c) and
(g)(i), the remainder being covered under Italian and
OPEC/UNDP grant financing:
(a) Scaling studies to insure that generating
equipment, well tubes and steam gathering system
are designed in a way which takes full account of
the specific nature of the corrosion effects
linked to the salinity of the brine;
(b) Nomad Settlement Impact Study to spell out issues
which may arise from a potential settlement of
Nomads in the area of the drilling activities;
(c)  geothermal drilling in the Lake Assal area of four
deep production and replacement wells (about
2,000m deep) including necessary consumables;
(d) complementary surface exploration works in the
Lake Assal area, including gravity and electrical
resistivity surveys and related studies;



- ii -
(e)  (i)  installation of 2x5 MW power plants
(including wellfield equipment) and (ii) a 1 MW
well head unit and desalination plant;
(f) installation of an electrical transmission line
from the Lake Assal area to Djibouti City;
(g) technical assistance to EdD including: (i)
consulting services for further project
preparation (PPF-financed); (ii) services of
project management and supervision for three
years; (iii) engineering services for the
supervision of the deep drilling operations and
the carrying out of related specialized services
(logging, testing, etc.); (iv) training; and (v)
equipment and vehicles.
Benefits:              The immediate expected benefit from the project is the
production of electricity derived from commercial
geothermal resources in the Lake Assal area.
Exploitation of these reserves would contribute to
reducing t'Le country's current total reliance on
imported fuels to satisfy its energy needs and would
thus contribute sub.tantially to foreign exchange
savings. Another benefit from the project would be to
assist EdD to further strengthen its role in geothermal
development and production.
Risks:                The main risk associated with the project is that
future reserves have characteristics (in terms of
temperature or chemical composition) that could prevent
additional development and production on an economical
basis; however, based on the current data on the Lake
Assal area, it is expected that this risk is small and
is outweighed by the potential tenefits associated with
the commercial exploitation.



- iii -
Estimated Proiect Costs:
US$ million
Local        Foreign       Total
1.  Bidding Documents & TORs                 0.10                         0.10
2.  Special Studies                                         0.95          0.95
3.  Purchase and Work-over of Assal Wells  4.83             0.12          4.95
Sub-total                              4.93           1.07          6.00
4.  Drilling (4 wells) & consumables         1.28           6.12           7.40
5.  Wellfield Eqiiipment                     0.45           2.55          3.00
6.  Power Plant (2 x 5 MW)                   0.70           6.30           7.00
7.  Power Plant (1 x 1 MW) 1/                0.13           1.17          1.30
i           8.  Electrical transmission                  0.67           3.80           4.47
9.  Housing/Control Building                 0.50           -             0.50
10.  Drilling Supervision                     0.12           0.50          0.62
11.  Project Management                       0.29           0.'i-A        0.72
12.  Technical Assistance to EdD
- Training/Initial Operation             0.48          0.72           1.20
- Project Engineering                    0.18          0.43           0.61
Total Base Cost                          9.73         23.09          32.82
Physical Contingencies 10%               0.48          2.32           21CO
(except for #3)
Price Contingencies                      1.03           1.39          2.42
Total Prolect Cost 2/                   11.24         26.80          38.04
1J Including Desalination Plant.
2/ Net of Taxes and Duties
Financing Plan:
USS million
Local       Foreign         Total
IDA                                      -             9.52          9.52
Government/EdD                           5.30            .10         5.40
Italy                                    5.94         16.10         22.04
OPEC/PNUD                                -              1.40         1.40
TOTAL                           11.24          26.80         38.04
Estimated Disbursements  3/ (US$ million)
IDA FY          ----FY90---------  --------FY91----          FY92--
1st sem. 2nd Sem. 1st Sem. 2nd. Sem. 1st Sem.
Annual              1.5     2.3         3.0         1.8       0.6
Cumulative          1.5     3.8         6.8        8.6        9.2
3/  The estimated disbursement schedule deviates from the standard profile
as IDA's financial contribution will be mainly for drilling and related
consumables, which, based on experience under IDA's previous Geothermal
Exploration Project, is expected to be completed in a relatively short
period.
Rate of Return: 12.0%
Map: IBRD No. 21648



DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Introduction
The proposed project represents a logical continuation of IDA's
initial involvement in Djibouti's energy sector which dates back to 1985,
when the Geothermal Exploration Project (Credit 1488-DJI) led to the
discovery of Africa's most powerful geothermal source found so far. The
findings under that exploration project confirmed that the steam sources
are sufficient to generate electrical power on an economical basis, and the
development phase now proposed will cover the actual implementation of a
,iirst phase of geothermal based power generation. The project will render
unnecessary the expansion of diesel-based gen ration capacity, which was
scheduled for 1992 in line with the power demand growth forecast, and will
reduce the country's dependence on fuel oil imports for its energy
requirements, which have increasingly absorbed scarce forei3n exchange
resources.
PART I. THE SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT
THE ECONOMIC SETTING
Overview
1.01     The Republic of Djibouti is a small country of 23,000 km2 with
several social and economic difficulties that hinder its development
efforts. Located at the mouth of the Red Se&. Djibouti is bordered on the
North, West and South-West by Ethiopia and on the South-East by Somalia.
Djibouti became independent in 1977 and joined the World Bank in 1980.
Djibouti is classified by the United Nations in the Least Developed
Countries group.
1.02     The country is characterized by a rugged topography, with
elevations ranging from 150m below sea level to 2000m above. Its climate
is very hot, and in the absence of any perennial rivers, the lack of fresh
water is a major physical constraint.  An estimated one million heads of
livestock are herded by the nomad population, who comprise roughly 20
percent of the total population. Only about 600 hectares of land are
cultivated, although some 6,000 hectares are deemed to be potentially
cultivable. The country's fishing potential is just beginning to be
exploited. Apart from the geothermal steam reservoirs, there are few
proven natural resources except for salt, limestone, gypsum and other raw
materials used in construction. The manufacturing sector is limited to a
number of small-scale establishments producing for the domestic market.
1.03.    The population is estimated at between 400,000 and 450,000 in mid-
1986, including about 40,000 refugees from neighboring countries. About
two-thirds of the population live in Djibouti City. The rate of population



- 2 -
growth is estimated at about 3 percent. Nearly 40 percent of the
population is below 14 years of age. The age structure of the population,
its rapid increase, and the influx of refugees, have resulted in acute
employment problems.
1.04     In spite of its unfavorable climate and limited resources,
Djibouti has been able to benefit from its strategic location and its
historical and regional ties to build upon the service-oriented economy
inherited at independence. While both the primary and secondary sectors
are underdeveloped, accounting for less than 20 percent of GDP, there is a
relatively important tertiary sector based mostly on the official and
unofficial trade with neighboring countries, and the presence of a large
number of French military and civilian personnel. Other services center
around the port of Djibouti, shipyards, the railw-y to Ethiopia, the
international airport, and a private banking system. Therefore, economic
activities are vulnerable as they depend highly on the fluctuation of
external demand for services.
1.05     The economy is highly open, notable for a complete absence of
trade barriers and exchange restrictions, and there is a free trade zone at
the port. Merchandise exports of local origin are insignificant, and the
country depends heavily on imports of food and other consumer goods.
Recent Developments
1.06     Real GDP declined on average by about 2 percent per annum during
the period 1984-1988, as compared to an average growth of 3 percent between
1978 and 1982. This was due mostly to the sharp drop in service and
construction activities. In 1989, the economic situation is likely to
suffer a further setback due to the recent to!:rentisl rains which caused
heavy floods and affected about 50 percent of the population of Djibouti
City.
1.07     The external current account deficit improved substantially from
17 percent of GDP in 1984 to an estimated 4 percent in 1987 owing to a
reduction in imports and a sizeable increase in unrequited transfers. On
the fiscal front, Lhe budgetary deficit has remained worrisome. However,
due to some remedial measures taken recently with support from France, the
overall deficit, including grants, declined from 6.4 percent of GDP in 1984
to around 5 percent in 1988. Capital expenditures have been reduced in
conjunction with a more cautious approach to borrowing and external debt
management.
1.08     Djibouti is highly dependent on foreign assistance.  External aid
finances more than 40 percent of Government expenditures and represents
nearly 25 percent of GDP. About two thirds of the total foreign assistance
are in the form of grants and one third in the form of external borrowing
mostly on concessionary terms. External debt outstanding at the end of
1987 amounted to US$152 million or 40 percent of GDP. Due to heavy
borrowing in the early 1980s to finance infrastructure projects, debt
service payments increased rapidly from US$3 million in 1982 to US$13
million in 1987. As a result, debt service payments reached 7 percent of
total exports including re-exports.



- 3 -
THE ENERGY SECTOR
Overview
1.09     Due to the lack of any developed domestic energy resources,
Djibouti currently relies exclusively on petroleum imports to meet its
commercial energy requirements. The country's total internal energy
consumption reached about 99,000 TOE in 1985 (essentially petroleum
products). Per capita energy consumption was 230 kg of oil equivalent,
relatively high by African standards, due to Djibouti's important
expatriate community.
1.10     The significance of imported energy for Djibouti is shown in
Annex 1.07. The figures therein contained suggest opportunities for the
Government to reduce its commercial deficit by curtailing these imports.
The figtures also spell out the real expenses incurred bv the Djiboutian
economy (i.e. excluding taxes, salaries, adjustments etc.) for petroleum
products consumed by the country.   Expenditures on energy were over DF 6.2
billion (US$9.5 million) in 1982 representing 2.5 percent of GDP and 31.6
percent of net imports.  In the past, the cost of the net imports
noticeably increased when the price of oil rose.  Since 1986, the
substantial fall in the international price of oil has produced a
significant positive effect on the balance of payments.   Such an impact of
the importation of petroleum products on the balance of payments, be it
positive or negative, will continue to remain important for Djibouti until
the substitution of geothermal energy and the simultaneous adoption of
energy conservation measures enable the country to reduce these imports.
1.11     Consumption of electricity rose by 8 percent p.a. from 1980 to
1985, 3.38 percent from 1985 to 1986 and 6.26 percent from 1986 to 1987 and
reached 143 GWh in 1987. Annual growth over the next ten years is forecast
at about 4 to 6 percent p.a. Djibouti's long-term power development plan
shows requirements for increments in capacity of 15-20MW every 3-4 years
(taking into account the retirement of old electricity generation
equipment).  There are about 21,000 -ower customers in the country, and it
is estimated that less than 45 percent of the population has access to
elect-icity.
1.12     The production of primary energy is limited to wood,
corresponding to 13,135 TOE (tons oil equivalent) in 1985, the year of the
latest data available.  With respect to the intermediate or secondary forms
of energy, apart from a small quantity of imported charcoal (50 TOE), the
principal import was 240,000 TOE of hydrocarbons, of which 155,000 TOE (65
percent) were re-exported, the remainder being used for the internal market
supply.   Of this remaining quantity, 36,460 TOE  was used to generate
electricity, 2,960 TOE was used in the production of charcoal, and the
remainder went directly towards providing final energy for the end-user
sectors. Electricity, which represents 16.6 percent of final energy, is
consumed in decreasing order by the residential sector: 47.2 percent;
services: 31.7 percent; the French Army: 16.8 percenti industry: 3.6
percent; and agriculture and fishing: 0.7 percent. Apart from the still
minimal contribution of solar and wind energy, only 13.1 percent of the



-4-
energy consumed in Djibouti in 1985 was provided by indigenous energy
resources: wood; 86.9 percent of the energy consumed was imported.
Domestic Enerzy Resources
1.13     Djibouti's energy sector is marked by its overwhelming (87
percent) dependence on imported fuel oils to meet its energy balance.
Geothermal, wind and solar energy are Djibouti's only s2.^aificant potential
energy resources and, so sar, remain essentially untapped. The previous
IDA Geothermal Exploration Project (Cr. 1438-DJI of 1984, closed June 30,
1938) indicated a sizeable resource of geothermal energy in the Assal area.
At the present time, two wells drilled into the high-temperature reservoir
are capable of producing steam and hot water (paras. 4.03/4.05).
Hydropower potential in the county is nil due to the absence of permanent
rivers. Furthermore, the country's geology is not particularly favorable
to significant hydrocarbon accumulation. Minor interest has been shown by
international oil companies in exploring for petroleum in Djibouti,
possibly on acreage offsetting that held in neighboring countries.
1.14     While no Reothermal energy is yet on production in Djibouti, the
exploration for this resource started back in 1971 in the Assal region by
BRGM, a French Government company, followed later in other areas by Aquater
and Geotermica Italiana, Government and private Italian companies,
respectively. This led to the drilling of eight deep wells, (five of which
were financed under the IDA Exploration project, (see para. 4.03)), two in
Hanle and six in the Assal area. Of these, Assal No. 1, which tested high
enthalpy fluids in 1980, is now non-productive due to plugging. However,
Assal No. 3 and Assal No. 6 are capable of producing geothermal energy.
The other wells failed to produce, either for lack of temperature, or due
to a lack of permeability in the rocks drilled, or because of mechanical
problems.
1.15     Apart from the geothermal energy potential, some renewable energy
resource potential exists in the form of wind and solar power and might
have a significant impact on Djibouti's future energy supply. In addition,
the possibility exists to utilize the difference in elevation between the
Gulf of Ghoubet and Lac Assal to generate hydro energy. 1,
1.16     The wind regimes in Djibouti have not been measured on a regular
basis until recently. Data published in the National Energy Plan indicate
that windmills for water pumping are a viable option in many parts of the
I/ Lac Assal is a salt lake located in the Danakil Depression some 14 km
inland and 155 m below the level of the Gulf of Ghoubet. The area between
the gulf and the lake is volcanically active; the rift is moving apart with
movement of 6 cm per year having been measured.



- 5 -
country, but that sites with average wind speeds in excess of the 6m/s
limit, at which wind power is likely to be competitive with diesel, have
not yet been identified. Wind power on a significant scale is unlikely,
therefore, to be a viable alternative for Djibouti within the timescale
being considered for the Geothermal Project.
1.17     Djibouti is favored with both high average levels and a high
reliability in insolation (7800 mega joules/m2 per year). The country
receives solar energy each year equivalent to 40 thousand times its present
needs. However the present use of solar energy, apart from natural water
heating is limited to photovoltaic systems with a total installed capacity
of about 12 kW peak. While photovoltaic systems are already economic for
certain low power applications, particularly .n remote parts of the
country, their high capital cost makes this technology uneconomic for large
scale electricity production. (A number of thermal solar power plants are
operating in industrial countries and the latest plant constructed in
California, with a capacity of 30MW is reported to have cost US$3100/kW
peak). However, to provide a firm supply, these plants require some form
of storage which is not cost effective at present. In spite of its present
limitations, this technology is nonetheless sufficiently close to being
cost effective in areas such as Djibouti as to warrant regular monitoring.
Energy Sector Institutions
1.18     There are four institutions in Djibouti related to the energy
sector.  They are Institut Superieur des Etudes et Recherches Scientifiques
et Techniques (ISERST), Electricite de Djibouti (EdD), the Etabliesement
Public des Hydrocarbures (EPH), and the Ministry of Industry and Industrial
Development, which has also responsibility for the energy portfolio.
ISERST is the Government entity responsible for all aspects of energy
related research, including geothermal exploration. An autonomous agency
created in 1979, it reports directly to the Presidency. ISERST's full-time
staff for geothermal exploration includes 6 local geologists, all of whom
gained considerable experience in geothermal exploration during the
implementation of IDA's First Geothermal Project for which ISERST was
implementing agency. During that period, ISERST's director also has been
able to call upon a group of French and Italian geothermal experts who
formed ISERST's International Scientific Council. This council has been
convened on various occasions (the last time in mid-1988) to advise ISERST
on matters relating to geothermal exploration. In addition, ISERST's
director has attended technical conferences and toured geothermal power
installations abroad.
1.19     EdD, the country's public electric utility, will take the leading
role in establishing the country's future policy for geothermal develop-
ment, as it will have direct responsibility for the production and supply
of electricity from the geothermal field to be exploited under the project.
EdD reports to the Ministry of Industry, which also approves EdD's tariffs
(para. 1.33). Finally, the Public Hydrocarbons Establishment (EPH) is the
public agency in charge of regulating the importation and distribution of
hydrocarbon products, currently handled by three foreign oil companies
(para. 1.25). Established in 1980, and dealing in only 4 types of fuels
(super and regular gasoline, gas-oil and kerosene), EPH has the following



-6-
responsibilities: (i) supply hydrocarbons to meet national demand in the
most effective manner and (ii) regulate prices with the aim of stabilizing
the market.
Energy Sector Objectives, Issues and Strategy
1.20     The Government's major objective in the energy sector is to
reduce the country's dependence on imported fuel. In light of the
favorable conditions for the development of commercial geothermal resources
in Djibouti, the Government gives a high priority to this program.
However, as part of its national energy plan, the Government has also
adopted conservation measures.   As a result, the country is about to
embark on a major energy conservation program promoting bioclimatic and
energy efficient building design with thermal insulation as well as thermal
insulation of refrigerators and fitting of low power street lighting
fixtures. ISERST is also promoting widespread dissemination of information
on the potential savings from improved building insulation. These programs
should have a significant impact on the future demand for electricity, in
particular during the hot summer season when the demand is dominated by air
conditioning load. The impact of these programs should be carefully
monitored and incorporated in future electricity demand forecasts. In
anticipating some of the expected slow-down effects on demand, the project
is built on a conservative growth scenario (para. 5.02) of 4 percent p.a..
1.21     In devising its strategy for future exploration and development,
the Government recognizes that the small size and concentration of the
domestic power market represents a major constraint to be taken into
account, sinr.e the production of electricity represents for the time-being
the only economically viable option for the use of geothermal energy in
Djibouti, although industrial use on a minor scale may prove feasible in
the longer term. Therefore, the Government has established a strategy not
to carry out more than one expensive deep drilling program in the country
at the same time, primarily for budgetary reasons but also because two
simultaneous discoveries could result in proving reserves far in excess of
what is needed to meet the forecast increment in domestic power demand
(about 30MW over the next decade) whereas an average (by international
standards) geothermal field is capable of sustaining about 5OMW when fully
developed. Hence, there is no immediate need for additional geothermal
field development elsewhere in the country as was once contemplated in view
of salinity and scaling problems existing in the Assal area. There is,
however, the possibility that small geothermal exploration and development
may be considered in the future near isolated population centers where such
centers lie close to developable geothermal resources.
1.22     An additional potential source of electricity for Djibouti would
be an interconnection with Ethiopia. This potential option of power
exchanges is currently under review by EdD. Preliminary studies have been
carried out by international consultants and focused on possible routes and
technical design parameters for both internal connections of towns to the
Djibouti city grid and interconnection with Ethiopia. However, no complete
economic analysis has been ur.dertaken to date to establish the feasibility
of a future interconnection with Ethiopia. The current characteristics of
the power systems in tha two countries though rule out an economically



viable sale of energy from Ethiopia to Djibouti as both grids are at this
stage nowhere close enough to be easily connected. Therefore, an
additional power line of some 300 km of length would have to be built, with
an estimated cost of US$15.0 million. As a result, the border price for
Ethiopian electricity would not be competitive compared to geothermal based
electricity. In a more medium term scenario, however, energy interchanges
could become attractive as the Ethiopian system is expected to have surplus
hydro energy, at least during the sunmmer 'wet' season when electricity
demand within the country is relatively low and the demand in Djibouti is
high. Demand on the Ethiopian system is highest in the cool season when
rivers do not flow, and therefore the availability of hydro energy is low.
There could then be scope for export of surplus geothermal energy from
Djibouti, once fully developed. However, there will be no possibility for
significant expor-. of geothermal energy until at least 20MW of geothermal
plant is installed on the system.
1.23     Should  an interconnection prove desirable in the future,
Djibouti would be relying on potential Ethiopian sources only for
contingency purposes or for meeting peak load, for two main reasons: a
long, unprotected power line through Ethiopian territory of 300 km length
is highly erposed to risk.   A second concern pertains to the possibility
of droughts which could cause the Ethiopian hydro system to be of limited
value in terms of reliability. Therefore, an 'nterconnection could not be
considered as a potential substitute for the geothermal project, but only
as an addition and this only in the medium term, when electricity could be
sold or purchased, depending on the season.
1.24     Petroleum Prices.  As mentiozed in para. 1.19, EPH sets prices
for the 4 fuels at specific levels for economic andlor social reasons. The
prices of diesel fuel and kerosene, for example, are kept at a relatively
low level, but all prices are well above import parity prices and
incorporate a high level of taxation. Domestic retail prices and CIF
import prices for petroleum products are as follows;
Unit Prices (US$/gal) as of July 1988
Retail     CIF Diibouti
Gasoline (premium)                      2.91           0.37
Gasoline (regular)                      2.59           0.34
Kerosene                                1.25           0.58
Diesel Oil                              1.47           0.55
Fuel Oil (EdD)                          0.76           0.48
1.25     Three oil companies, Mobil Oil, Total and Shell share the market,
Mobil holding about 50 percent of the market and the other two 25 percent
each. The system of supply is well matched to the demand in that up to the
present time, there has been no shortage of the products on the market.



-8-
The Power Sector
1.26     Overview.  Public electricity supply in the Republic of Djibouti
is under the control of EdD, a wholly-owned Government company. EdD's
supply covers only the main urban centers of the country but represents
around 95 percent of total electricity consumption, most of which is
concentrated in the Djibouti-Arta area. Outside the Djibouti-Arta area,
EdD also supplies the towns of Ali Sabieh, Dikhil, Obock and Tadjourah.
Ali Sabieh and Dikhil were recently interconnected and there are plans to
connect Obock to Tadjourah in the near future. Total electricity supplied
by EdD in 1987 wias 181 Gwh or 400 kwh per capita. Taking into account
other non-EdD production, total production was about 420 kwh per capita.
1.27     The total installed capacity of EdD's main Djibouti network and
isolated rural systems is 88.2MW of which 84.7MW, or 96 percent is located
in Djibouti City. The whole of EdD's capacity consists of diesel
generators fueled by imported oil: the units at the main Boulaos power
station burn a blend of medium fuel oil (600 sec Redwood) and gas oil. All
other units burn gas oil. A number of the units at Boulaos are nearing the
end of their useful lives and will need to be replaced over the next few
years (Annex 1.05). Two large 15MW diesels were commissioned at Boulaos in
1985 and a further two 5MW in 1988. The total installed capacity on the
Djibouti main system of 84.7MW corresponds to an effective capacity of
70.4MW after taking account of recent plant retirements at the old Marabout
power station and derating of the Boulaos units for age and local operating
conditions; this represents a plant margin of 34.4MW (96 percent) over
the current maximum demand of 36MW (June 1988). Major problems have been
experienced with the two 15MW diesels. The cylinder blocks on both engines
had to be replaced and, as a resulc, the availability of the units was only
about 60 percent during 1986 and 1987. Repairs to the units have been
effected but a connecting rod failure has resulted in a further major
outage to one of the units during the 1988 peak load season. As a result,
the units have not been moire productive in 1988 than in 1987 and have
experienced more outages than expected.
1.28     Electricity consumption is categorized by size of consumer rather
than end use and is almost equally divided between small low voltage
consumers and large and medium sized consumers with a declared demand
greater than 36 kVA. Losses have increased gradually over the past ten
years and are currently about 17.5 percent of total energy production.
The electricity consumption by industrial consumers is low in Djibouti,
comprising only 5 percent of total consumption. An analysis of the
larger consumers carried out for the National Energy Plan showed that
administration and public service accounted for 31 percent; commerce and
hotels, 14 percent; French army, 36 percent; water pumping, 7 percent;
agriculture and fishing, 2 percent; and public lighting, 3 percent.
1.29     In common with other electricity systems in many developing
countries, Djibouti experienced rapid growth in electricity production
duting the 1970s, averaging 11.3 percent per annum up to 1980. However,
since 1980, growth has slowed significantly to 6.9 percent per annum,
reflecting lower levels of economic growth experienced in the country, and
influenced by the general world economic recession. The reference forecast



- 9 -
adopted under the proposed project is based on 4 percent per annum growth
in consumption for the main Djibouti system, coupled with a gradual
reduction in losses from the present level of 17.5 percent of gro:-
generation to 13 percent by 1995. The loss reduction should be achievable
as a result of the measures now being taken by EdD to identify and reduce
both technical and non-technical losses. An alternative growth forecast
based on 5.5 percent per annum increase, with no loss reduction, has been
used as a sensitivity in evaluating EdD's future development program.
1.30     Power Sector Investment Prozram.  Following the commissioning of
the four new diesel units at Boulaos in ;985 and 1988, EdD's Djibouti
system has been transformed from a position of undercapacity to one of
surplus. However, a number of the units at Boulaos are already twenty
years old and will need replacing during the 1990s. A target life of 25
years is currently used by EdD in planning capacity additions, together
with a minimum reserve plant margin equal to the sum of the largest and
next largest unit sizes on the system. On this basis, new capacity is
required in 1994 for the reference load forecast and 1992/93 for the growth
forecast. However, if a twenty-year life is adopted for the existing
plant, the reserve plant margin falls below the required minimum in 1991.
1.31     The earliest feasible date the geothermal project (2 x 5MW)
could be brought into service is late 1992/early 1993 as shown in the
Project Implementation Schedule (Annex 6).  Although this is one year
earlier than needed under the reference forecast for new generating
capacity, there are two principal advantages in commissioning the
geothermal plant as soon as possible:
(i)  two of the Boulaos diesels are already over 20 years old,
which is generally considered to be a realistic life span for
mediui.-speed engines particularly given the harsh climate
conditions in Djibouti. EdD adopts a flexible policy on plant
retirements--keeping diesels in service--provided they are
reasonably reliable and their operation and maintenance costs are
not excessive. Although a 25-year life is used by EdD for the
planning of replacement plants, this is a maximum figure and does
not allow for possible earlier retirement of plants in the event
of a major mechanical breakdown where it may be considered
uneconomic to repair an engine which has a remnant life of only
a few years; and
(ii) the load forecast for the Djibouti system is considered to be
conservative and there is a significant probability it could be
exceeded if economic activity increases or if the 4.5 percent
reduction in system losses is not achieved. As noted earlier,
the analysis carried out (Annex 8.02) using a slightly higher
load forecast (5.5 percent per annum growth in consumption,
rather than 4 percent for the reference forecast, and assuming no
reduction in system losses), indicates that new capacity is
needed in 1993 (provided a small deficit of 1.1MW forecast for
1992 can be accepted).



- 10 -
1.32      The main Djibouti system comprises a network of 20 kV primary
distribution lines--some overhead and others underground--overlain by
a single 63 kV, 4 km underground cable circuit connecting the Boulaos power
station with a primary distribution substation at Marabout close to the
commercial center of the city. The town of Arta, some 35 km from Djibouti
City, is supplied by a single 132 kV overhead line. Studies have recently
been carried out to examine the feasibility of interconnecting the various
rural systems, either with each other or with the main Djibouti City
system. It was concluded that it is economic to connect Obock to Tadjourah
via a 20 kV overhead line to avoid installing additional diesel capacity at
Obock. EdD also has plans for connecting both Tadjourah and Ali Sabieh to
a new central substation (Ghoubet) to the south east of the Bay of Ghoubet.
The dates at which these latter interconnections become viable depend on,
inter alia, the construction of a 132 kV transmission line from Djibouti
City to Lake Assal as part of the Geothermal Project, the adoption of heavy
fuel operation at the Boulaos power station and the dates when
reinforcement of the existing isolated diesel stations is required. Any
future interconnection with Ethiepia would also have to be taken into
account. No decisions have been taken yet by EdD to proceed with any of
these projects. However, as the viability of these projects (with the
exception of the Tadjourah-Obock interconnection) depends on the existence
of the Djibouti-Lake Assal transmission, they have not been considered in
the economic analysis of the Geothermal Project.
1.33      Tariffs.  Electricity tariffs charged by EdD have been unchanged
since February 1983, when they were set consistent with the then high level
of world oil prices of about US$35/bbl, compared to the present level
of US$16-17/bbl. The average tariff level in recent years has exceeded
20 c/kWh, with tariff categories ranging from about 14 c/kWh to 26 c/kWh.
Details of the tariff structure are set out in Annex 3.
1.34      The domestic tariff incorporates a social or lifeline element in
the lowest consumption category, i.e. up to lkVA, with energy charges
between 20 percent and 30 percent lower than the 3kVA and higher power
categories. This distinction has led to abuses from consumers on the lkVA
tariff, consuming power in excess of their declared limit, and resulting in
a significant loss of revenue to EdD.
1.35      In 1985; the total cost of electricity in the Djibouti city and
Arta system was DF 33.57/kWh (19c/kWh) compared with an average sales price
of DF 37.16/KWh (21c/kWh), giving a total surplus of DF 358m (US$2.0m),
including the isolated centers. Since that time the price of oil has
fallen substantially and EdD has recorded larger surpluses; the surplus in
1987 was DF 600 million (US$3.4m). The surpluses have been used to repay
borrowings from the Government made during the period of high oil prices in
the early 1980s. Another part of the surpluses has been set aside for an
energy conservation project involving incandescent lamp replacement and
insulation of refrigerators (para. 1.20).
1.36      Tariffs have been reviewed twice in recent years.  The first
study (1986), undertaken by a power consultant under the National Energy
Pian, proposed the introduction of seasonal time-of-day tariffs (for large
consumers) and the opportunity to contract for energy at preferential



- 11 -
rates, but with a se'.ere ipenalty for exceeding the monthly contracted
energy by more than 50 percent. These proposals were considered by EdD to
be too complicated ard costly to administer.  A second study (1988) adopted
the earlier analysis but put forward a revised tariff structure which would
be more easlly understood by the consumers and less costly to implement.
The key features of this tariff proposal, which has been found adequate by
the mission, and which would cover long-term marginal cost, are:
(i) introduction of a high rate second block in the 1 kVA domestic
tariff to prevent abuse by higher income consumers which has led
to a substantial loss of income to EdD;
(ii} introduction of a fuel cost adjustment mechanism;
(iii) reduction in average revenue of 8 percent from 37.5 DF/kwh to
34.5 DFIkwh at current fuel prices; and
(iv)  reductions of up to 17 percent in tariffs to large commercial and
industrial consumers.
EdD is planning to introduce the new tariffs incorporated in this proposal
but they have yet to be ratified by Government. Ratification of the
proposal is a date covenant (Dec. 31, 1990). It was agreed at negotiations
that this would be done at the latest by December 31, 1990.
PART II. BANK GROUP LENDING STRATEGY
2.01     Djibouti joined the Bank Group on October 2, 1980.  Five IDA
credits have since been approved: Technical Assistance (1982), Highway
Maintenance (1983), Geothermal Exploration (1984), Urban Development
(1984), and Education (1985). The Bank Group assistance strategy is
currently aimed at engaging in a macro-economic dialogue with the
Government and at assisting the country to reinforce the development base
of the country, i.e. human resources, urban development, and geothermal
energy. The latter is one of Djibouti's few natural resources and is
therefore an ideal sector for IDA involvement to help diversify the
economy. It is also in line with the strategy objectives of improving the
exploitation of Djibouti's main assets and helping the Government identify
a viable long-term development strategy, within which IDA and other donors
can provide assistance.
2.02     The current five-year lending program includes, apart from the
propised geothermal development project, an operation for education and
manpower training (FY9Os), urban development II (FY91), and two reserve
projects (health and geothermal III) in the outer years.



- 12 -
PART III. BENEFICIARY
Electricite de Diibouti
3.01      EdD (Electricite de Djibouti) was established in 1960, by decree,
as a non-stock public entity, taking over what had previously been the
Service for Public Works of the then French Territory of the Afars and
Issas. EdD's charter, to which modifications were made in 1977 following
independence, establishes its mandate as the country's public power company
responsible for the development, construction and operation of all electric
power generation and transmission facilities throughout the country. Any
private sector power generation (through independent generators) needs to
be authorized by EdD including stand-by generators operated by commercial
and service entities.
3.02      OrRanization, Management and Staff.   EdD's corporate power is
exercised by a ten-member Board of Directors which consists of three
ministers, three representatives of the National Assembly, EdD's Director
of Finance and a representative of the company's staff, selected by the
union. Appointment of the National Assembly members is for one year, with
possibility for re-election. The Minister of Industry is Chairman of the
Board and the Ministry also serves as EdD's 'tutelle". The Board's duties
include the approval of all larger contracts and purchases, budget
decisions, proposal for the nomination of the managing director, and
decisions concerning staff remuneration, except for those of the director
and chief accountant, who are appointed by the Council of Ministers.
3.03      EdD's organization chart is presented in Annex 2.01.  The
organization is sub-divided into a technical and an administrative
department. The technical divisions are responsible for production,
transmission, general regional services, both for the northern and southern
part of the country. Additional regional subdivisions will not be
necessary in view of the minor importance of operations in the interior of
the country. Admin-stration includes customer services, which underwent
successful restructuring in 1987 following collection problems.   The
training facility, the Centre de Formation Professionnelle (CFP) has been
inoperative since 1987, but it is supposed to start activities again in
1990.
3.04      In 1987,  EdD had 700 employees, including 20 foreign experts
provided by EdF (Electricite de France). This employment force is
considered appropriate and EdD does not intend to raise it substantially
during the coming years (the number of additional staff per year is not
expected to exceed 15). By the end of 1988, the total staff had risen to
702 due to the reorganization of the service department. The foreign
employees have two year contracts which are renewable. Each of them is
assigned to work with and train one or two counterparts. EdD plans to
replace several of the foreign staff by local staff over the next three
years. These replacements have worked smoothly in the past, except for



- 13 -
once, when the French administrative director's assistant departed. His
position remained vacant between August 1988 and May 1989, causing some
disruption in maintaining up-to-date financial projections.
3.05      From an organizational point of view, an area that deserves
attention is the supervision of the recently restructured service
department (para. 3.18). Although positive effects of this new section
have already occurred as a result, (e.g. the amount of delinquent private
clients had significantly decreased by the end of 1988) a thorough and
continuous follow-up of this vital part of EdDts organization has not yet
been fully achieved. However, EdD is conscious of this deficiency and is
awaiting the results and recommendation of the 1988 audit (para. 3.30) to
introduce further measures to improve efficiency.
3.06      Training,  EdD covers its need for personnel with higher
education through recruitment of locally educated graduates, most of whom
have studied abroad a few years. Once employed and confirmed, promising
staff are sent on additional training programs to French institutions such
as CCCE (Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique), which has granted
several loans to EdD, or to Electricite de France.
3.07      On the technician level, approximately 20 employees with basic
technical education (Certificat d'aptitude professionnelle, CAP) were hired
per year in the past.   They are then further trained by EdD for two
additional years. Two technicians per year are also sent to France to gain
further experience. Hiring of technicians is expected to decline.
3.08      EdD's own training center (CFP) was closed in 1987, because it
was unable to furnish the highly specialized skills needed, above all, to
respond to the needs of the data processing department. A reoriented
professional training center is planned to open in 1990, financed by the
Arab Social and Economic Development Fund (FADES), Kuwait Fund (KF) and the
CCCE.
3.09      Operations, Maintenance and Losses.  In spite of EdD's apparent
large reserve margin of generation capacity in the main Djibouti network, a
substantial proportion of the plant is old and cannot be operated at its
rated capacity. The problem is further exacerbated by the very high
ambient temperatures and humidity which generally coincide with the peak
load season. EdD has experienced major problems with the large new 15MW
diesel generators which have resulted in prolonged outages. Because of
these operating problems, which continued througnout 1988, EdD's
consumption of gas-oil has increased by 74 percent compared with 1987.
These difficulties call into question the wisdom of installing these large
units which, at the time they were commissioned, each represented
approximately 50 percent of EdD's system peak demand. Apart from these
problems, EdD has operated and maintained its assets satisfactorily.
3.10      EdD's system losses, including both station use and distribution,
were running at about 17.5 percent of energy generated in 1987 and rose
slightly to 18.5 percent in 1988. About 6 percent is attributable to power
station consumption and the balance to distribution and non-technical
losses. EdD has recognized that the present level of losses is too high
and is employing expatriate technical assistance in an attempt to reduce



- 14 -
non-technical losses by improved meter reading, inspection and billing
practices. It is estimated that this program, together with a recently
introduced practice of transformer load monitoring and replacement, should
allow EdD to reduce its losses to the forecast level of 13 percent of gross
generation over the next few yeat4.
3.11      Firancial Planning and Budgeting.  Although wholly-owned by the
Government, EdD enjoys substantial financial autonomy. It manages its
financial affairs and maintains its accounts in a satisfactory manner.
Subject to Board and Government approvals, EdD is authorized to formulate
its investment program, establish its tariffs, enter into contract with
suppliers of goods and services, and borrow for its own account from
foreign as well as domestic lenders.
3.12      EdD's budget is prepared by the chief accountant assisted by a
member of his department. A budget is prepared at the end of every fiscal
year, in December, for the following year, taking into account the results
of the current year (up to August) received by the accounting department.
Data for the remaining months are estimated. A comparison between budgeted
and actual results is carried out.  The budget contains figures provided by
the technical departments, estimating the necessary equipment to be
installed. A budget document is submitted to the Board for approval. A
program to analyze the monthly deviation has been prepared by the Data
Processing Department and will be put into operation during the 1989
accounting period.
3.13      Long-term financial planning had been initiated by the assistant
to the director, who left EdD in mid-1988. His successor is to arrive only
in May 1989 but will continue working on these programs.
3.14     Accounting System.  EdD's accounting system is based on French
power utility principles and procedures. The accounting is operated using
a data processing system to which the operations in the interior of the
country, including Tadjourah, are also connected.   In late 1989, a new
computer-based stock management program will start to operate, at which
time obsolete material will be identified and depreciated.
3.15      Commercial System.  EdD has approximately 21,000 customers.  The
number of new clients per year is estimated at about 1,000 to 1,500, and
individual electricity consumption is rising. Receivables are not expected
to rise, however, since collection procedures are becoming more effective
due to an improved customer service.   In the short term, total demand is
not expected to lncrease above the estimated 4 percent, because no new
major industrial development is expected in the near future.
3.16      Clients are dlvided into middle and low voltage customers and,
further, into governmental agencies and private customers. The amount of
industrial customers is limited. EdD's largest customers include the
French Army, the Sheraton Hotel, and the Government.
3.17     As a general practice, payments from delinquent clients are
deducted from the most current bills overdue. Thus, past overdue accounts



- 15 -
may never be cancelled in spite of some subsequent payments. No interest is
charged for payments overdue or for accounts which have been restructured.
3.18     An action program, "gestion clientele", has been established in
1987 to improve the collection   stem and the service department has been
reorganized accordingly. The department includes two divisions, ordinary
customers (low voltage) and important customers, the latter of which has a
coordination section attached to it. Instead of individual staff
performing only one task, e.g. meter reading, a group is now responsible
for an entire section of the town. Group members are in charge of all
operations, such as establishing the initial contact, concluding a new
contract, reading the meter, controlling the billing, contacting customers
in case of overdue payments, restructuring of small customer debts and, as
the ultimate measure, cutting off electricity. Although this program
affected the behavior of small customers resulting in a substantial decline
of unpaid checks at the end of 1988, it did not change the attitude of
several larger customers. Meter reading, and subsequent billings are
prepared on a bi-monthly basis which is also the payment rhythm requested
from customers.
3.19      New connections require advance payment of a month's projected
electricity consumption. In addition, a fixed rate is included in each
billing (DF 350 flat fee per month for consumption of up to 36 KVA and DF
38 for each additional unit of KVA, also per month). These additional
charges contribute to the high price of electricity for small customers.
Approximately 9,000 of EdD's customers are entitled to benefit from the
social tariff, allowing a maximum consumption of lOlkwh per month, which
does not provide for the use of an air conditioner. Negotiations to
restructure small customers' debts have been quite successful.
3.20    EdD has one cashier's office per district in the country.  Clients
living in the interior have to pay in person if they don't use existing
check payment facilities. EdD has 30 customers who use a pre-authorized
payment method. A new building next to EdD's existing office complex is
under construction, and is to house the service department with improved
service and payment counters.
EdD's Financial Position and Past Operatina Results
3.21    EdD's capital structure is healthy.  One third of total
liabilities consists of equity, which is comprised of Government capital,
retained earnings and reserves, capitalized loans from foreign donors and
clients' subsidies.
3.22    As many other public utilities in developing countries, EdD relies
on loans from multinational or bilateral donors. The priority given to the
power sector in view of its role in economic development is reflected in
favorable loan agreements obtained by EdD resulting in long grace periods
a.d interest rates below market rates.
3.23    However, a relatively steady inflow of revenues can be expected
from a power utility, with the financial situation of the company primarily
influenced by the appropriateness of the tariff system and the efficiency



- 16 -
of revenue collection. During the period of high oil prices, both were
weak points within EdD, resulting in operating losses until 1983. As a
consequence, capital reserves had declined to DF 1,049 million in 1983 and
positive operating results in 1984 and 1985 were still absorbed by losses
carried forward. As a result, 1986 was the first year with i taxable
income.
3.24    EdD's past and present financial performance for 1986-1968 is
presented in Annex 4 and summarized in the table below:
EdD - Audited 1986, 1987 and Provisional 1988 Balance Sheets
(DF Millions)
ASSETS                               1986     1987      1988
Gross Fixed Assets               15,607   16,487     n.a.
of which Acc. Depreciation    (6,823)  (7,910)   (n.a.)
Net Fixed Assets                  8.784    8,577    9,409
Work in Progress                    466    1,289     n.a.
Other M/T Assets                    725    1,568    1,776
Current Assets
Cash                            1,944    2,742    3,820
Accts. Receivable (net)         2,921    2,685    3,120
Inventory                        870       505      892
Other                             185      317      313
Subtotal                     5,920    6,649    8,145
Total Assets                   15.895   18,083   19.330
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Capital                             308      308      308
Retained Earnings                 1,329    1,840    2,016
Clients' Subsidies a/             1,769    1,519    2,086
Capitalized Loans                   469    1,483    1,483
Other                               512      219    1,147
Subtotal                       4,387    5,369    7,040
Long Term Debt                    9,441    9,158    8,433
Loss Provision                    1,034    1,798    1,830
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                  397      517      858
Other                             636    1,241    1,169
Total Equity and Liabilities   15,895   18,083   19,330
a/  Clients financial contribution in the form of advances to cover
installation cost.



- 17 -
3.25     EdD's debtiequity ratio was still high in 1986 with a relation of
65 s 35. In 1987 several Government loans were repaid by cancelling
Government's current debts thus improving the debt/equity ratio to 58 : 42,
and in 1988 further to 50 : 50. This relation is continuing in the real
terms projeccion for the relevant period until 1995. For a public utility,
this ratio is considered to be acceptable and is confirmed by the effort
undertaken by EdD to stabilize its revenue inflow through reorganization of
the clients section, thus offering high security to the lenders to cover
future debt service. The Government's equity contribution of US$4.6
million equivalent (50 percent of the total Credit amount) is in this
context to be seen as a potential heoge towards unexpected technological
problems as EdD will be generating part of its base load from geothermal
based energy for the first time.
EdD - Summary of Audited Income Statements 1986 and 1987
and Non-Audited Statement 1988
(DF Millions)
1986       1987    198d
Units Sold (GWh)                               134.5      142.9     n/a
Average Revenue (DF/kWh)                        37.16      37.16   37.16
Power Sales and Other Revenue                  5771       6264     6843
Operating Subsidy                               113        328      300
Total Revenue                             5884      6592      7243
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                     992       1078     1123
Maintenance, Fuel, Admin., Other Provs.    3080         3939     3451
Depreciation + Asset Renewal Provision       1064       1092     1250
Total Expenses                            5136      6109      5824
Operating Income                                748        483     1319
Interest                                        237        264      173
Net Income                                      511        219     1147
Return on Assets (percent)                      3.2        0.8      5.9
Debt Service Coverage (times)                   2.1        1.6      2.4
Contribution to Construction (percent)           12         15       21
3.26      As noted above, EdD has produced annual profits on a consistent
basis since 1984. Minor losses in the years preceding 1984 were due to
high fuel prices which were not passed on to consumers. (To decrease the
impact of oil price fluctuations on EdD's financial performance, an
automatic adjustment mechanism will be inc_.uded as part of EdD's overall
tariff structure revision (dated covenant) by December 31, 1990, so as to
pass on potential gains or losses more directly to EdD's customers). As a



- 18 -
result of the profits since 1984, EdD has had positive returns on assets.
The significance of EdD's rates :f return on assets as a performance
indicator for the past ten years  is, however, redaced due to the somewhat
arbitrary asset values assigned to them (para. 3.34). An asset valuation
has not been carried out during the last ten years but is being prepared,
and the completion thereof by June 30, 1990 is a covenant of the proposed
Credit.
3.27      EdD's cash situation is strong.  Ever since 1984, the last year
in which a mi4or loss occurred, EdD has built up a 3trong annual cash
surplus, and used it for considerable short-term investments. As a result
of this strong cash position, EdD progressively increased its contribution
to construction and investments over the past years. The amount of the
contribution almost doubled between 1986 and 1988 (from 12 percent to 21
percent) and is to grow further to about 25 percent in the coming years.
3.28      The situation of EdD's accounts receivables has recently
worsened, and is above accentable levels 2/. The 1987 level was at a 7.3
months' consumption level, declined somewhat to 6.1 and increased again to
6.5 in 1988. As mentioned in para. 3.18, EdD has made some efforts to
bring the level down further, but these efforts need to be strengthened. A
portion of existing Government receivables (about equivalent to the entire
government energy consumption of 1988) will - offset against an asset
transfer of geothermal wells to EdD (para. ...35), and will result,
starting in 1989, in a reduction of receivables by about one third, to 4.4
months' consumption level. (A list of the major delinquent customers is
available in the project file). In addition, the remaining receivables
covering all consumers are also high. It was therefore agreed during
negotiations that (i) outstanding arrears of the Government and of
enterprises receiving government subsidies be brought to a targeted 4
months' level by end 1991 (dated covenant) and that (ii) the level of
receivables outstanding for 1 year or less from private customers would not
exceed 2.5 months' of sales by the end of 1991 and 2 months' sales in 1992
and thereafter (dated covenant).
3.29      Accounts payable, contrary to the high receivables, will remain
reasonable. They increased slightly from DF 517 million in 1987 to DF 658
2/ EdD has collection problems with several Government agencies and other
clients related to the Government, including the airport. In 1987,
outstanding Government debt to EdD which was set off against loans,
totalled DF 608.0 million. In 1988, such an arrangement was not repeated.
By March 1989, unpaid Government accounts amounted to DF 652.0 million,
which represents more than 10 percent of all annual billings.   Previously,
in 1987, the airport's accumulated debt (DF320 million) had been converted
into a long-term loan with monthly payments of DF 2.4 million. In 1988,
the local airline's debt was also restructured, from an accumulated total
of approximately DF 32.5 million to monthly installments of DF 0.5 million,
without interest being charged. Payments on the restructured debts have
been met regularly.



- 19 -
million in 1988 and consisted mainly of payments to suppliers other than
fuel supply.
3.30      Audit.  Until 1987, EdD's external audits have been carried out
by a local company, SOFRACOR, which is managed by French expatriates and
which also audited ISERST during the implementation of IDA's Geothermal
Exploration Project. Starting in 1988, EdD has chosen as its auditor a
French firm specializing in audits and organizational analysis of public
utilities.
3.31      The 1986 and 1987 audits were unqual4fied but the management
letters listed recommendations on accounting procedures for clients'
subsidies 3/ in 1986, and on the register of clients and the evaluation of
stocks both in 1986 and in 1987. EdD has already acted on all of the
auditors' recommendations.
3.32      Taxes.  EdD is liable for income tax of 25 percent of annual
profits. In addition, EdD pays sales taxes (TIC = Taxe interieure a la
consommation), on all directly imported goods, at rates between 28 and 31
percent. However, EdD purchases most cf the goods required for production
from local wholesalers.
3.33      Insurance and Asset Valuation.  EdD self-insures part of its
assets, namely equipment at the Boulaos station.  Total insurance
provisions in 1987 were DF 30.0 million, bringing it to an accumulated
total of DF 283.0 million. All additional systems are insured for an
annual premium of DF 55.1 million by a French insurance company, and
include transformers, the entire transmission and distribution network,
production break-down equipment, overcharge damages at clients' residence,
production losses, conflagration, earthquakes and an insurance for the
transport fleet.
3.34      An annual revaluation of assets is conducted for purposes of
adjusting the insurance premium. As a result, an independent consultant
has been retained to value the assets mainly based on a desk study that
considers, inter alia, the replacement cost. This methodology could result
in some overvaluation of EdD's fixed assets as it does not cover the
regular items of a typical utility asset valuation. (The latter is being
carried out under PPF financing). The insurance-based asset valuation
shows a value of DF 8,561 million for the externally insured units and all
other assets, excluding the self-insured Boulaos units. Following the
completion of the full technical asset revaluation (terms of reference are
in Annex 2.02), IDA plans to review, during supervision of the proposed
project, EdD's methodology for asset revaluation, and seek the
implementation of adjustments considered appropriate by both parties.
3.35      Transfer of Government Financed Assets.  The Government has so
far contracted all the IDA debt related to IDA's Geothermal Exploration
3/ Client 'subsidies" represent the client's financial contribution for
the connect.ion to the system, essentially covering part of the installation
cost.



- 20 -
Project that led to the discovery of two productive wells. Under that
project, the Government had agreed to legally transfer any productive
assets to EdD which, in exchange, would assume the corresponding debt
service. The estimate of the asset value has recently been prepared by a
special commission comprising members of the Min. Fin., ISERST and EdD and
the amount is about DF 1,000 million. However, these assets (essentially
wells Assal 3 and Assal 6) will not be transferred on the basis of a credit
agreement (Government/EdD) but instead by cancelling outstanding Government
receivables, which in turn will reduce EdD's receivables by almost one
third.
3.36      EdD's foreign exchange exposure is well covered by existing
provisions for potential foreign exchange losses. All of EdD's long-term
loans are contracted in foreign currencies, whether made to the Government
(and passed on to EdD) or directly lent to EdD. An exchange gain has
contributed substantially to the high 1983 profits, as the US dollar, to
which the Djibouti franc is pegged, strengthened against the French franc
(as many of EdD's loans originate from the CCCE).  In 1987, on the other
hand, EdD had increased its foreign exchange loss provision by DF 736
milllon, exceeding more than half of the amount spent for fuel purchases
during that year.
3.37      Over the past two years, EdD's foreign exchange exposure has
decreased as a result of debt service and debt/equity conversions, the
latter of which was particularly due to conversions agreed upon by the Arab
Development Fund (FADES). Debt service will start having a stronger impact
again after 1989, when grace periods for EIB and CCCE loans will be
terminated.
3.38      EdD has in the past benefited substantially by low interest
charges on foreign loans. This explains why EdD displays a preference to
contracting those rather than using its own cash surplus to finance its
investment program. If EdD's foreign lenders were to charge the
appropriate market based (relending) rates reflecting actual cost of
capital, EdD's debt would be reduced (and along with it its forex
exposure). Its belf-financed contribution (in percent) of new investments
would go up and its financial results would more adequately reflect a
realistic situation, based on which future tariff reviews could be based.
3.39      Future Financial Position and Operations of EdD.  The projected
financial statements of EdD for the years 1987 through 1995 together with
notes and assumptions used in these statements are given in Annex 4.
Selected financial performance indicators are shown in the table below:



- 21 -
EdD Financial Performance 1987-1994 - Selected Indicators"/
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1998   1994
Electricity Sales
(DF millions)          5,380  5,740  5,721  6,729  5,995  6,263  6,584  6,842
Contribution to
Construction percent      15     21      23     26      30      30     so      s0
Debt Service
Coverage (times)          1.6    2.4    2.6    2.0    1.8    1.9    2.1    2.1
Current Ratio              10.9    9.0   13.1   18.9   14.9   16.1   18.3   20.4
Debt/Equity Ratio           1.1    0.8    0.9    1.0    1.1    1.2    1.1    1.0
Rate of Return (percent)    2.9   10.6    8.3    6.3    5.8    7.9    7.0    7.2
Receivables (months) b/     6.5    6.6    6.6    5.6    4.5    8.6    2.6    2.0
Payables (months)           1.6    2.2    2.3    2.2    2.1    2.0    2.3    2.3
!/ In constant prices and on the basis of tariff rates based
on the adoption of the new proposal (para. 1.35).
k/ Based on the Implementation of measures proposed by IDA.
3.40      For the above analysis, power tariffs rates would achieve the
main financial objectives, namely that internal generation of funds will
result in a 30 percent contribution to construction and cover debt service
1.5 times. The rate of return on assets shows a return of over 10 percent
for 1988 as a result of high tariffs in effect and declining operating
costs. In the projections, where a tariff reduction is scheduled in 1990,
the rate of return correspondingly drops to about 6 to 7 percent. Taking
into consideration opportunity cost of capital and in view of the interest
rates of loans received by EdD, this rate of return is considered
apptopriate. It also confirms that the average tariff after reduction is
in line with the cost-recovery principle (an average tariff in real terms
of 34 DF is calculated for the period 1989 to 1995 on the basis of total
cost and energy sold). 4/
3.41      Based on the new rate structure, the adoption of which is
proposed under the project, the debt service coverage remains well above
the target, averaging 2.0. The slight reduction in 1991/1992 is due to
expiration of grace periods under EIB and CCCE loans, as noted earlier
(para. 3.37). The debt/equity ratio is favorable (roughly 50:50) in view
4/ Long term marginal cost calculation at different discount rates.
Discount Rate               6.0%           8.0%            10.0%
PV of Cost            44,141          41,207          38,604
PV of Sales            1,257           1,171           1,094
Marg. Cost Tariff          35.10          35.20           35.29
(For period 1987-1995)
PV of Cost            36,764          34,857          33,125
PV of Sales            1,081           1,024             973
Marg. Cost Tariff          34.00          34.02            34.05
(For period 1989-1995)



- 22 -
of recent conversions of debt into equity by FADES and in view of the fant
that over two thirds of the proposed project financing are being extended
to EdD as a grant. The projected current ratio, almost doubling from 10 to
20 is a result of the reduction of receivables to targeted levels, despite
EdD's increase of contribution to construction.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
Background
4.01      Geothermal exploration was started in 1971 by the Bureau de
Recherches Geologiques et Mini;res (BRGM) in the Lake Assal area, at a time
when Djibouti was still a French territory. Work in this area culminated
in 1975 with the drilling of two deep wells, Assal 1 and 2 (about 1,000m
depth), which encountered high temperatures (230-260 C) but could not be
fully tested because of budgetary constraints. Following independence
(1977), geological research resumed and full tests on the two wells were
conducted in 1980 by BRGM under UNDP funding. The results showed one well
to be non-productive while the other produced a highly saline fluid (130
g/1) and experienced major scaling problems.
4.02      Reconnaissance work was also carried out after independence in
other areas of the country by Aquater (of the Italian ENI group) and
Geotermica Italiana (private consulting firm), under partial funding from
the Italian Government. With the exception of the Lake Assal area, which
was the only area in the country where drilling had taken place, the best
known prospects were in the area of Hanle, followed by that of Arta. Both
areas have been covered by geological mapping, fluid geochemistry, and
electrical resistivity and gravity surveys. In addition, three temperature
gradient holes were drilled at Hanle.
4.03      Under the previous IDA Exploration Project (IDA Credit 1488-DJI)
two wells were initially drilled at Hanle in the first half of 1987. Hanle
1 was drilled to a total depth of 1,623m and Hanle 2 was drilled to a depth
of 2,038m without encountering high temperatures. Following these negative
results, further exploration efforts at Hanle were abandoned. Instead,
exploration moved to the Lake Assal area during the second half of 1987. A
well, Assal 3, was drilled very close to Assal 1, where hot brine had been
encountered by BRGM in 1975. The results of Assal 3 were very encouraging
in that over 300 tons per hour of steam and hot water were produced. The
well was drilled to a depth of 1,316 m and encountered temperatures of
262C. Although the concentration of dissolved solids in the water is
similar to Assal 1, (130,000 ppm), improvements in brine-handling
technology since 1980 will allow commercial production of steam.
4.04      Continuing with the exploration concept of the project, Assal 4,
located 1.4 km to the NE of Assal 3, was drilled to a depth of 2,013 m and
encountered temperatures in excess of 305 C, but no steam. Further
testing will be required in the future to fully evaluate the well's
potential. The last exploration well financed under the project, Assal 5,



- 23 -
was drilled at Fiale in the center of the rift to a depth of 2105 m. The
well was abandoned because of a temperature inversion and lack of
permeability.
4.05       A last well, Assal 6, was drilled near Assal 3, and financed
with direct local budgetary support after IDA resources were fully
utilized. Assal 6 was drilled some 240 meters NNW of Assal 3 to a depth of
1726 m. It encountered temperatures in excess of 220- C and extremely high
permeabilities from 960 m down to total depth. The well has not been fully
tested; however, preliminary flow rates indicate that the area explored by
this well appears to have very favorable conditions for development.
Because of problems resulting from the mechanical design of this well, the
determination of the full potential of the area will require further
evaluation, which is to be covered during the scaling study (para 4.09(a)).
Prolect Objectives and IDA's Role
4.06      The project's objectives are in line with the Government's
objectives for the sector, i.e., to develop the country's indigenous
sources of energy, reducing its dependence on imported fuel. Furthermore,
the project would assist the Government to formulate and to apply a
consistent strategy for geothermal development and help strengthen EdD,
particularly in building up its geothermal operatiora. capabilities.
4.07      To help achieve the above objectives, IDA's continued presence in
the project along with other cofinanciers would assure satisfactory
management control with competent operators. More generally, IDA's role in
the sectot would be to:
Mi)    assist in the structuring of the project financing plan; and
(ii)    ensure that the project is carried out efficiently and in a
timely fashion through initial project planning and frequent and
close project supervision.
Project Description
4.08      Based on the three wells (Assal 1, 3 and 6) which have been
drilled in the chosen location so far, the large flow rates sustained,
particularly in Assal 3, are indicative of a substantive reservoir. 5/ On
that basis, the specific project components set out below have been
designed to develop further the proven geothermal resources at the Lake
Assal location and to provide the necessary infrastructure for the
generation and transmission of the geothermal-based electrical power to
Djibouti City.
5/ Results from the testing of Assal 3, which has flowed at some 300
tons/hour, and preliminary data obtained so far from Assal 6, confirm the
presence of a large geothermal resource, which could initially sustain some
10 MWE.



- 24 -
4.09      Specifically, the project would include the following sub-
components:
(a)       Scaling Study  6/ (i) to insure that the steam gathering- and
generation equipment is designed in a way which takes full
account of the specific nature of the corrosion effects linked to
the salinity of the brine; and (ii) to propose how those can be
kept at a minimum. The study is underway and the results would
either confirm the conservative assumptions for steam treatment
cost and phasing of replacement wells used for the purpose of the
cost calculation, or would improve the project's rate of return
further.
(b)       Nomad Settlement Impact Study 6/ to spell out issues which may
arise from a potential settlement of Nomads in the area of the
drilling activities.
(c)       Drilling operation 6/ to include the drilling of four new
geothermal development wells in the Lake Assal field to a depth
of approximately 2000 m on the basis of a development plan
prepared and implemented. (Prior to starting drilling
operations, a development plan and an area for well locations
will be agreed upon and the defined area would not be changed
without IDA's prior agreement. The drilling operation will
include site preparation, mobilization, demobilization and moves
from location to location. It would furthermore include a work-
over (reconditioning) of Assal 3 and 6 for detailed production
testing and further reservoir evaluation, as well as potentially
deepening Assal 4.
(d)       Consumables 6/ in the form of casing, drilling bits, cement,
drilling fluid addit..ves etc. would be provided in support of
carrying out the drilling operation.
(e)       Purchase of existing, already productive wells would be made by
EdD to incorporate them as part of its assets.
(f)       Drilling Supervision to include the complete supervision of the
drilling operations as well as logging and testing of the wells.
During the operations, :he supervision firm will undertake all
recording of data from the wells including temperatures, pressure
and chemical composition of the brines.
(g)       Studies would be carried out in parallel 7/ with the drilling
operation to (i) define further the reservoir (size and
deliverability) through a detailed gravity survey and possibly
6/ Component is financed under the proposed IDA credit.
7/ These-studies can only be done in parallel with additional development
wells being drilled, as a larger number of wells is needed to generate and
improve the findings.



- 25 -
localized electrical resistivity measurements in an attempt to
refine locations of each additional development well (reservoir
study including brine handling); and (ii) define the technical
specifications of the equipment (detailed enigineering study).
(h)       Installation of generating equipment and surface facilities in
the form of two 5MW back-pressure 8/ generators and supply of all
surface facilities such as electrical substation, steam
collection and treatment systems.
(i)       Instellation of a 1MW well-head generator for short-term
reservoir evaluation and for desalination purposes to supply a
limited amount of fresh water for the use of the camp and local
inhabitants.
(j)       Installation of a single circuit transmission line (132
KV/approx. 100 km, single circuit) from the steam field to the
Boulaos power station in Djibouti City, to include the design and
mapping of right of way, supply and erection of poles and
electrical cable. (The system which will be supplied will be
sufficiently versatile so that a second circuit could be added in
the future).
(k)       Overall project management and training for EdD personnel in the
management and maintenance of a geothermal power plant through
on-the-job and overseas training until EdD will be fully
versatile to fully assume operational responsibility of the steam
field operation.
Prolect Costs
4.16      The total cost for the project is estimated at US$38.04 million,
excluding interest during construction, but including physical and price
contingencies. About US$26.8 million is expected to be in foreign
exchange. A summary of the project cost is shown in the table below.
4.17      All costs are based on mid-1988 prices quoted by suppliers both
in Italy and elsewhere; physical contingencies are included at 10 percent
of the base cost. The cost of the geothermal power plant is based on cost
estimates from three independent sources and for the transmission on
current rates for similar projects tendered under international competitive
bidding. (Even though sole source procurement will be applied under the
Italian Grant financing, IDA is satisfied that th3 prices are reasonable.)
Price escalation for costs expressed in terms of foreign exchange (US
dollars) is calculated according to anticipated international price
movements of 1 percent per annum fo'r 1988-90 and 3.5 percent per annum for
1991 and thereafter. Price escalation for costs expressed in local
currency is calculated using estima ed local inflation rates of 5 percent
8/ While the generators would be of "back pressure' design (as opposed to
condensing design), the option involving subsequent retrofitting of
condensers is included in the interests of longer term energy conservation.



- 26 -
per annum for 1988-90. It is assumed that the Djibouti Franc will remain
tied to the US dollar during the project evaluation period.
Proiect Cost Estimate
DF million aI                USS million     Foreign
Cost S
Local  Forelgn  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    of Total
1. Bidding Documents A TORs       18               18    0.10              0.10
2. Special Studies                       168      le6              0.95    0.95
3. Purchase and Work-over
of Assal wells               85S     21      87a    4.83      0.12    4 95
Sub-total                     878    199    1.062    4.98       1.07    6.00        18
4. Drilling (4 wel!s) & consum.    227   1,083   1,31    1.26      6.12    7.40       83
5. Wellfield Equigment            79    451       530    0.46      2.56    8.00       85
6. Power Plant (2 x 5MW)         123   1,115    1,238    0.70      6.30    7.00       9o
7. Power Plant (I x 1MW) O        23    206       228    0.13      1.17    1.30       90
S. Electrical Transmission       11t    872       789    0.67      3.80    4.47       85
9. Housing/Control Bldg.          88               88    0.50              0.50        0
10. Drilling Supervision           22      87      109    0.12      0.60    0.82       e1
I1. Project Management             50      76      126    0.29      0.43    0.72       8o
12. Technical Assistance to EdD
- Training/Initial Operation   84    128       210    0.48      0.72    1.20       60
- Project Engineering          32      76      108    0.18      0.43    0.61       70
Total Base Cost              1.718   4.080    6.798    9.73    23.09   32.82       70
Physical Contingencies
10 percent S/                85    410       496    0.48      2.32    2.80       83
Price Contingencies           182    248       428    1.03      1.89    2.42       58
Total Prolect Cost           1.986   4,738    6.721    11.24    28.80  38.04       70
(excluding interest
during construction)
a/ Assumes Djibouti Franc linked to US$ over project period.
b/ Includes small desalination unit (80.2 m).
c/ Excluding physical contingencies of EdD's purchase of productive wells under Item  3.
Financing Plan
4.18       The project financing will be provided partly by the Italian
Government who will finance, on a grant basis, the two 5MW back pressure
generators, all of the electrical connections to the substation, and the
electrical transmission line from the Assal geothermal field to Djibouti
City. The effectiveness of this Grant Financing Agreement will be a
condition of the IDA credit effectiveness. In addition, Italian grant
financing will include all technical assistance and training to EdD and
project management for three years. Total IDA contribution, including



- 27 -
contingencies will be US$9.5 million, and includes financing of four wells,
consumables, the preparation of bidding documents for the drilling
contract, and the 1MW desalination power plant. Total local contribution
will be US$5.1 million.
Financing Plan
(US2 million)
IDA     Italy   OPEC/UNDP   Govt/EdD     Total
1. Bidding documents A TORs                0.1                                       0.1
2. Special Studies                         0.85     0.10                             0.95
3. Purchase/Work-over of Assal wells       0.12                            4.83      4.95
4. DrillIng (4 wells) & consum.            7.1                             0.3        7.4
S. Wellfield Equipment                              3.0                              3.0
8. Power Plant (2xSMW)                              7.0                               7.0
7. Power Plant (IxiMW)                                       1.3                      1.3
8. Electrical transmission                          4.47                             4.47
9. Housing/Control Building                                                0.5       0.5
10. Drilling Supervision                             0.82                             0.82
11. Project Management                               0.72                             0.72
12. Technical Assistance to EdD
- Training/Initial Operation                     1.2                               1.2
- Project Engineering                            0.61                              0.61
Total                                  8.17    18.02     1.3            5.33     32.82
Physical Contingencies 10 percent a/        0.82     1.80    0.06           0.06      2.80
Price Contingencies a/                      0.21     2.22     0.04          0.01      2.42
Grand Total                                 9.2     22.04     1.4           5.4       38.04
(excluding interest during construction)
a/ excluding contingencies on the purchase amount
(US$4.5 million) of item #3.
Project Implementation and Schedule
4.19      EdD would have overall responsibility for the implementation of
the project; however, given its limited operational experience in
geothermal activities, three reinforcing measures are being taken under the
project: (i) a full time expatriate geothermal project manager is assisting
EdD (PPF-financed) during the preparation phase and while the scaling
studies are being carried out (at least until June 30, 1989); (ii) all of
ISERST's geothermal staff of 6 is permanently transferring to EdD and with
them the already existing knowledge on steamfield development and
maintenance to strengthen EdD's geothermal operations; and (iii) a
comprehensive cooperation program agreed between EdD and the Italian power
board ENEL (Terms of Reference attached in Annex 5) will provide overall
support on all aspects of the project, except for the scaling study.
(Specific details of ENEL's involvement were confirmed at negotiations and
signature of the Cooperation Agreement oetween EdD and ENEL will be a
condition of effectiveness).
4.20      EdD has sufficiently skilled staft to undertake the major tasks of
the project other than the directly geothermal related ones; however, EdD
would require contractors for civil works for the site preparation of wells
and for constructing the power line between the Lake Assal area and
Djibouti City. EdD would also provide the labor for the works to be



- 28 -
carried out at the well field under supervision of ENEL. Successful
bidders under the Italian grant component covering generators and
trAnsmission lines would provide erection supervision of all equipment.
4.21     It is necessary for EdD to strengthen the managerial structure
of its Geothermal Division, as so far, EdD has not dealt with this sector.
As a result, consultancy services (Terms of Reference in Annex 2.05) would
be provided as part of ENEL's assistance. Apart from assigning a general
coordinator for the project, ENEL would provide project management and
technical assistance planning to cover procurement, design and construction
standards, project implementation and control.  ENEL would also provide the
necessary training.
4.22     Annex 6 gives the critical activities in the implementation
schedule of the project, including the drilling program, design studies
for and installation and erection of the steam-gathering system, the power
plant and the transmission line. The 4 wells to be drilled under the
project are scheduled to be completed by the first quarter of 1991.
Hiring of the contractor in charge of the drilling program is expected in
late 1989. The first 5MW unit is scheduled to be commissioned by the erd
of 1992, soon to be followed by the second 5MW unit in early 1993.
Procurement
4.23     The procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in the
table below.
Project Component                  ICB              Other         Total
--        _ -US$ million------------
Purchase of old wells,
drilling 4 new wells,
consumables & Assal 3 and 6
clean-up                            8.42             5.13          13.55
(8.42)          (0.0)          (8.42)
Power Plants, Wellfield                             16.47 a/       16.47
Equip. & Transmission line         (0.0)            (0.0)
1 MW Unit & Desalin. Plant                           1.4            1.4
(0.0)          (0.0)
Housing & Control Bldg.                              0.5            0.5
(0.0)          (0.0)
Drilling Supervision &                               3.26 a/        3.26
Project Management                                  (0.0)          (0.0)
Technical Assistance                                 2.86 a/        2.86
and Studies                                         (0.78)         (0.78)
Total:                         8.42           29.62           38.04
(8.42)          (0.78)         (9.2)
Note:  Figures in parentheses indicate financing by IDA.
a/ Includes amounts for items financed by the Italian Government and
procured under its own procedures.



- 29 -
The 2 x 5MW power plants, transmission lines and surface facilities will
be procured by the Italians in accordance with Italian procurement
regulations. All procurement documentation for goods dnd services financed
by IDA and estimated to cost over US$0.2 million equivalent will be subject
to IDA's prior review.
4.24     All of the following major packages of materials, equipment and
services of EdD's Geothermal Division would be awarded following ICB:
(a) contracts for well drilling and well-related operations (with
post qualification required for the drilling contract); e.g..
cementing, directional drilling, pipe inspection and other highly
specialized operations; and
(b) contracts for supply of drilling consumables and related
equipment.
4.25   Minor packages for equipment, spare parts, materials, consumables
and services (not exceeding US$200,000 per contract) may be procured in
accordance with shopping procedures, acceptable to IDA, on the basis of at
least 3 quotations up to an accumulated total of US$2.0 million.
Disbursements
4.26   Credit disbursement would be fully documented and would be for 100
percent of foreign expenditures for goods and services financed by IDA.
For locally purchased equipment, IDA would disburse 80 percent.
Disbursements are projected on the basis of the experience under the
previous project as IDA's financing, which is essentially for drilling,
will have the same characteristics in the Development Project as those
experienced under the Exploration Project. The Credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1991. In order to expedite disbursements,
a Special Account in US dollars will be opened in a foreign commercial bank
in the name of EdD or the Government, with an initial deposit of US$1.0
million.
Monitoring and Reporting
4.27    Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project
have been agreed: during the feasibility study and development drilling
phase of the project, fortnightly reports will be furnished to IDA by the
Geothermal Division of EdD in a format acceptable to IDA. After -he
development phase, EdD will submit reports on a monthly '-asis to advise IDA
of the progress of procurement and installation of equipment in the Assal
field. Finally, EdD will submit to IDA on an annual basis its financial
audit prepared by auditors acceptable to IDA as well as an annual audit of
a separate project account. These audit reports would be submitted to IDA
within four months of the end of each fiscal year. A project completion
report would be prepared by EdD no later than six months after the closing
date of the Credit.
Environment
4.28    Potential environmental effect of the Geothermal Development
project can be classified in four oroad categories, as follows:



- 30 -
1.  The effects of surface or atmospheric discharges of geothermal
fluids on public health and safety.
2.  The loss of or change in habitat for flora and fauna.
3.  The societal effects of construction and operation of facilities,
and the resulting increase in demand for services.
4.  The possibility of induced seismic activity, ground subsidence or
volcanic activity.
4.29     The Assal geothermal fluids are very high temperature (to
260' C), saline (to about 130 grams/litre) and potentially toxic. Steam
is flashed from the brine, for use in turbines to generate electricity.
During initial drilling and well testing operations, the geothermal fluid
and associated drilling fluids will be discharged into surface pits and
evaporated to dryness, leaving a residual deposit. During field
development and operation, the saline geothermal fluids will be injected
back into the underground reservoir as a means of supporting the reservoir
pressure. The steam used in power generation will continue to be flashed
into the atmosphere. Because concentration of non-condensable gases
dissolved in the geothermal fluid is very low (less than 0.5 percent by
weight), there will be very little gas emission into the atmosphere (95
percent of the non-condensable gases will be C02). Thus, no surface
discharges of geothermal fluid are expected after field development begins,
and atmospheric discharges will be benign (water vapor and minor C02).
4.30      The Assal area is very arid, barren, sparsely populated and
nearly devoid of vegetation and animal life. Nomads periodically traverse
the area with herds of goats, which graze on the sparse vegetation.
Geothermal development will cause changes across several tens of hectares
of otherwise useless land, out of several hundred square kilometers of
similar terrain, and is not anticipated to adversely affect animal or plant
habitat. However, for safety reasons, drilling sites will be permanently
fenced, as will the generating plant. Furthermore, EdD's on-site staff
will periodically conduct information programs for the nomads to alert them
to the dangers of live power lines.
4.31     Development of the geothermal field will cause some disruption
of the ground surface (construction of roads, water pipelines and drilling
sites, excavation for the power plant, construction of transmiss',on lines).
This is expected to leave some permanent scars on the barren desert, and
periodically to increase the noise and dust levels. This, however, should
be scarcely noticeable in the dusty, windy Assal terrain.
4.32     Construction and operation of the geothermal facility will result
in the provision of additional services locally (dirt roads, electricity,
and water supply). It is expected that about 30 permanent staff will
reside in the camp. (Mostly foreigners during the drilling phase and a mix
of foreigners and Djiboutians once power generation commences). Given the
total absence of any type of service in this deserted area, the presence of
a salary drawing work force and services, especially fresh water supply for
about 100 persons, may attract additional population, which might, in the
medium term, create a demand for schools, commercial stores, medical
service and commercial transportation service. The need to provide such



- 31 -
services must be considered au part of the long-term development strategy
for the Assal area. To further assess the potential population and
settlement issue, including the needed services, agricultural potential
etc., a portion of the existing PPF will be used for a small study. This
study would also identify potential components for IDA's next Urban
project.
4.33     Because the Assal region, and indeed all of the Republic of
Djibouti, lacks potable water suppliea, a desalination unit utilizing the
saline marine waters of the Ghoubet will be installed. The desalination
unit will be powered by geothermal electricity. Provision of potable water
would not only attract additional nomadic population, but could also help
to increase animal husbandry or to create local horticulture (palm gardens,
animal fodder, etc.).
4.34     The Assal geothermal field is on the southern flank of the
tectonically ana iolcanically active Assal Rift. Production of geothermal
fluids for power generation and the injection of residual fluids back into
the underground reservoir may result in local ground subsidence and
increased microseismic activity. These effects are considered to be
trivial in comparison to the natural tectonic surface deformation (of some
2 cm per year) and natural seismicity (dozens of earthquakes occur annually
of magnitudes of 4 or even 5 on the Richter Scale). Subsidence is likely
to be of little concern in the barren, uninhabited desert. Further, in
those geothermal fields where subsidence hac been significant, there has
not been any injection of the geothermal fluids back into the subsurface
reservoir, which is planned under the project. EdD will include in its
regular reporting to IDA a monitoring on potential effects observed as a
result of reinjection.
4.35     Volcanic eruptions in historic time have occurred at several
kilometers' distance from the geothermal field. Geothermal development is
extremely unlikely to have any effect on volcanic activity. However, in
case of volcanic activity, there would be no effect on the power plants as
there is no evidence of recent volcanic eruptions having had any impact on
the area proposed for development. Therefore, no hazard to the geothermal
operation is foreseen.
4.36      In surmary, therefore, the principal envi onmental effects are
likely to be socioeconomic, and will involve an inc.eased demand for
services, especially water.
PART V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Economic Rate of Return
5.01      Background.  The economic analysis of geothermal power generation
in Djibouti has been undertaken on three separate occasions prior to the
calculations presented in this report.   (Details in Annex 8.04).  The
first analysis, in 1981, estimated the cost of power derived from the
geothermal field to be less than half compared to diesel-generated,
conventional power. A second analysis, in 1983, concluded that electricity
produced from a geothermal plant would cost US$0.10/kWh compared with a



- 32 -
cost using diesel generators of US$0.13/kWh. A third analysis, in 1986,
found that geothermal energy is more economical than diesel, provided that
(i) the average price of oil is at least US$17/bbl over the life of the
project, and (ii) the test discount rate is to be 10 percent or less. The
current analysis, based on the specific costs and benefits of the project
as described in part IV above, indicates an equalizing discount rate (vs.
the all diesel alterns-tive) of 12.9 percent for the base case (reference
forecast) and of 13.9 percent for the growth forecast. The economic rate
of return (ERR) based on terms of sales revenues and excluding consumer
surplus is 12 percent.
5.02      Methodology.  For purposes of the present analysis, the economic
rate of return of the geothermal project has been calculated against the
next best alternative of continued development of diesel capacity at
Boulaos. Development programs were prepared for each alternative for both
the reference and growth forecasts (Annex 8.05). The geothermal programs
comprise a mix of geothermal and diesel plant and are compared with all
diesel programs. A conservative 25-year life has been assumed for existing
diesel generators. A simulation of the operation of the Djibouti system
was made for the period up to the year 2000 on a seasonal basis to take
account of the markedly different hot and cool season load characteristics
and plant maintenance scheduling. Histograms showing the incidence of
demand between the seasons (in Annex 1.08) were based on actual load data
for 1987. These were used to derive annual and seasonal load duration
curves (Annex 1.09) for the production cost..ng analysis.
5.03      Plant Characteristics and Fuel Costs.  The table in Annex 1.06
shows the performance characteristics of existing and candidate diesel
plant. The diesel fuel costs are based on a 1988 reference oil price. The
specifir Zuel consumptions include a small proportion of gas oil for
starting and stopping of the engines. All maintenance other than routine
running maintenance is assumed to be scheduled during the cool season.
Fuel costs are based on the Bank's oil price. The cost of the new diesel
plant is based on US$8801kw installed, plus allow-nces for physical
contingencies, engineering and site supervision; EdD management and
supervision and fuel and lubricating oil stocking. This gives a total
capital cost of US$15.62 million, equivalent to US$1040/kw and the
investment cost is assumed to be phased over 3 years.
5.04      Geothermal Plant.  The project includes 2 x 5MW back pressure
units plus a 1MW unit which would drive a small desalination plant.
The total net output after allowing for power station auxiliary and
desalination plant consumption and transmission losses over the 100 km 132
kV single circuit line to Djibouti City is estimated at 10.3MW. The
capital cost estimate for the geothermal plant adopted for the economic
analysis is based on the following assumptions: (i) the costs of
exploration are treated as sunk, and are therefore excluded; (ii) both
Assal 3 and Assal 6, after cleaning up will be productive, providing about
4.5MW; Assal 4 will be used as a reinjection well; (iii) power will be
transmitted to Djibouti (Boulaos) via a single circuit 100 km 132 kV



- 33 -
overhead line 9/; (iv) four new wells are required, assuming 75 percent
success rate and 3.5MW per productive well and technical supervision will
be required, both during the well field development and power plant
construction and for the initial three years of operation of the project.
Finally, the annual availability of the geothermal plant was assumed to be
89 percent (94 percent in the hot season and 84.5 in the cool season).
Detailed operating costs are presented in Annex 8.03.
5.05 Results of thie Analysis. The results of the analysis are set out in
Annex 8.03. The equalizing discount rates between the geothermal plus
diesel and all diesel programs were evaluated over the assumed 25-year life
of the geothermal project. At rates higher than the equalizing rate, the
diesel programs are more economic because future fuel savings afforded by
the geothermal plant are more heavily discounted, whereas at rates below
the equalizing rate, the geothermal programs are preferred. The equalizing
discount rates are summarized below for the base case and other cases
examined to assess the sensitivity to changes in key parameters affecting
the economics of the geothermal project:
Equalizing
Discount Rate Z
(a) Base case (reference forecast)                       12.9
(b) Growth forecast                                      13.9
(c) Constant future fuel prices (real terms)              9.4
(d) Geothermal capital cost + 20 percent                  9.9
(e) High scalinglreservioir deplet4on                    11.5
(f) One-year slip in geothermal program                  13.0
5.06 Economic Rate of Return. The internal economic rate of return (ERR)
for the geothermal power project has been computed basei on (a) the
incremental sales revenue provided by the project and (b) fuel cost savings
from units of electricity generated by the geothermal plant in addition to
the sales increment. The capital and operating costs include (a)
development of the steamfield and gathering system, including depletion and
reinjection wells, (b) the power plant and associated transmission to
Djibouti and (c) distribution and EdD administration corresponding to the
sales increment.
5.07 The ERR of the project, based on direct benefits measured in terms of
sales revenues and fuel cost savings, is 12 percent (Annex 8.03). The
calculation of the ERR does not take account of consumer surplus. A
reduction of 20 percentage points in the geothermal plant factor (from 89
percent to 69 percent) reduces the ERR to 10.2 percent, which is still
acceptable.
5.08 The geothermal project represents the least cost development to meet
forecast demand growth on the main Djibouti system. The equalizing
discount rate (12.9 percent) is higher than the opportunity cost of
capital. This conclusion is robust over a reasonable range of variation
of key parameters.
9/ If the prospects of providing steam for an additional geothermal plant
are good, consideration might be given to constructing a double circuit
line but only stringing one circuit initially.



- 34 -
5.09 Under the reference forecast, the 1OMW geothermal plant should be in
service by 1994 at the latest to avoid a capacity shortfall on the EdD
system. Furthermore, the rate of return of the project is not sensitive to
earlier commissioning as the additional fuel savings it affords are
balanced to a large extent by the additional cost of advancing the capital
investment. In uther words, the economic feasibility of the.project is not
critically dependent on the geothermal plant being commissioned by 1993,
the earliest feasible date, in order to minimize the risks of plant
shortages discussed in para. 1.30.
Benefits
5.10      The analysis of the project demonstr'tes, on the basis of a least
cost expansion plan, an advantage of geothermal based electricity
generation over the alternative one based on diesel. Therefore, the deep
development drilling program is justified together with the subsequent
installation of generators and transmission line. As a result, the
country's current exclusive reliance on imported fuels to satisfy its
energy needs will be lifted starting in late 1992/early 1993, and
substantial savings of foreign exchange will result. Another project
benefit is the full emersion of EdD's geothermal division into geothermal
exploration, development and production as a result of the cooperation
agreement with the Italian Public Electricity ENEL, that forms an integral
part of the overall Italian assistance package to be received on a grant
basis. Without IDA's crucial financial contribution to cover the drilling
portion of the project, Djibouti would also not be able to benefit from the
turbine and transmission line grant as the upstream drilling activities is
a sine qua non for the downstream production equipment, and as otherwise,
this Italian grant would not have been available to Djibouti for other
purposes.
Risks
5.11      On the basis of feasibility and engineering studies, the project
faces minor risks in implementation, namely that holes drilled for
development will be subject t.t normal geological risk and may be
subcommercial. The possible need to drill additional holes might raise the
project capital and operating costs. However, the success ratio of wells
is calculated conservatively at 75 percent and therefore mitigates this
risk substantially. Another risk associated with the project relates to
institutional issues. Although a Geothermal Division in EdD will be
established to improve institutional performance, the project includes the
risk that EdD will be unable to enforce coordination and exercise the
leadership necessary to implement the proposed project. However, this risk
is mitigated in view of permanent direct supervision provided by Italian
assistance under the project.
PART VI. AGREEMENTS
Agreements Reached
6.01      Conditions of Effectiveness will be: (i) effectiveness of the
Italian Grant Financing (para. 4.18); (ii) signature of the agreement (in



- 35-
form of a contract) between EdD and ENEL, satisfactory to IDA, stipulating
the details of ENEL's assistance and supervision program throughout the
project (para. 4.19); (iii) availability of final results of the scaling
study (para. 4.09(a)); and (iv) signature of the Subsidiary Credit
Agreement between Government and EdD in a form acceptable to IDA.
6.02      Dated Covenants.   (i) finalization of the asset valuation study
and preparation of an action program, acceptable to IDA, based on the
findings and recommendations of the study by June 30, 1990 (para. 3.26);
(ii) reduction of receivables to 4.0 months for Government receivables and
for companies that receive Government subsidies by December 1991 (para.
3.28) as well as reduction of receivables, outstanding for 1 year or less
from private customers to 2.5 months by December 1991 and further down to
2.0 months by December 1992 (para. 3.28); (iii) agreement on a development
drilling plan and area for well locations, the latter of which is to be
updated prior to each new well being drilled outside the initially agreed
upon area, and such updating has to be agreed upon by the IDA (para.
4.09(c)) and (iv) introduction of a new tariff structure (para. 1.36) by
December 31, 1990.
6.03      Subject to the above assurances and conditions the project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$9.2 million equivalent
to the Republic of Djibouti.



- 36 -
DJIBOUTI
ANNEX 1.01
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY STATISTICS FOR THE
DJIBOUTI NETWORK 1971-1987
Year          Production      Energy    Consumption by   Peak             Load
sent out     auxiliaries    demand         factor
GHh           GWtl            X            MW             t
1971             43.2          41.7            3.5           9.00         54.8
1972             48.5          46.7            3.7          10.25         54.0
1973             56.3.         54.2           3.8           12.00         53.6
1974             61.6          59.5            3.4          14.30         49.2
1975             73.0          70.6            3.2          15.10         55.2
1976             82.0          77.4           5.7           17.10         54.8
1977             89.1          82.6            7.2          18.15         56.0
1978             92.8          86.5            6.7          19.70         53.8
1979            102.5          95.1            7.3          22.10         53.0
1980            113.7         104.8           7.8           23.95         54.2
1981            119.5         110.9           7.2           24.80         55.0
1982            126.6         115.1            9.1          25.95         55.7
1983            142.2         131.6           7.5           28.40         57.2
1984            140.9         130.3           7.6           31.50         51.0
1985            158.8         148.4           6.6           32.15         56.4
1986            164.0         153.7           6.3           34.50         54.3
1987            173.4         162.4           6.3           33.40         59.3
Growth rates (7 p.a.)
71-80    11.4
80-87     6.2
71-87     9.1



- 37 -
DJIBOUTI
ANNEX 1.02
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION AND LOSSES IN THE
DJIBOUTI NETWORK 1971-1987
Year         Energy         Consumption GWh                        Distribution
sent out   low & medium        low          Total         losses
voltage       voltage
GWh        PS<36kVA      PS>36kVA         GWh             X
1971          41.7          16.5          20.3          36.3           11.6
1972          46.7          18.7          23.4          42.2            9.7
1973          54.2          22.0          25.7          47.7           12.0
1974          59.5          25.0          27.7           52.6          11.6
1975          70.6          32.8          31.4           64.2           9.2
1976          77.4          36.1          33.0          69.1           10.7
1977          82.6          39.7          34.1          73.8           10.7
1978          86.5          41.5          34.5          76.0           12.2
1979          95.1          47.7          41.1           88.8           6.6
1980         104.8          47.1          44.7          91.8            9.7
- 1981         110.9          48.7          48.2          96.9           12.6
1982         115.0          53.3          52.3         105.6            8.3
1983         131.6          54.5          55.6         110.1           12.5
1984         130.3          55.4          55.6         111.0           14.8
1985         148.4                        65.0         130.5           12.1
1986         153.7          67.1          67.4         134.5           12.5
1987         162.4          71.6          71.4         143.0           12.0
Growth rates (% p.a.)
71-80                                                    10.7
80-87                                                     6.6
71-87                                                     8.9



- 38 -
DJIBOUTI
ANNEX 1.03
GEOTHEEMAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
BASIC INDICATORS FOR LOAD FORECAST SCENARIOS
INDICATOR                                  1985              2000
growth      reference
scenario      scenario
1.   DEMOGRAPH
Population (thousands)               430.0        670.0        670.0
urbanisation                          58 %         75 7         65 .
average urban household size           7.5          6.0          6.5
average rural household size           8.2          7.0          7.2
2.   STRUCTURE OF URBAN HOUSEHOLDS ()
low income                            71.8         71.0         75.3
middle income                         16.5         22.1         16.5
upper income                           5.2          4.5          5.2
expatriates                            6.5          2.4          3.0
3.   GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP)           60.2       125.2        108.5
(Billion FD)
4.   STRUCTURE OF GDP (X)
agriculture                            4.5          8.5          7.0
construction                           7.5          9.0          8.0
services                              76.6         63.5         71.8
energy                                 3.2          6.0          3.2
industry                               8.2         13.0         10.0
5.   HOUSEHOLDS WITH ELECTRICITY (Z)
5.1  Urban
low income                            54.0         93.0         76.0
remainder                            100.0        100.0        100.0
5.2  Rural
rural centres                         15.0         44.2         34.2
6.   TRANSPORT
number of private vehicles          11,622       16,370       15,600
number of public vehicles              521        1,208          938
number of freight vehicles             430          962          774



- 39 -
DJIBOUTI
ANNEX-1.04
GZOTHGUIL DEVELOPMENT PROJUCT
LOAD FORECASTS 1988-2000
A - REFERENCE FORECA T (Dlibouti City Network)
Year          cnergy (Production)               Maximum Demand            Annual
Annual      Hot       Cool      Annual      Hot       Cool       load
Season    Season                Season    Season    factor
GWh       GNh        GWh        MW         MW         MW         t
1988     179.Z      115.2       64.0      36.6       36.6       25.4       57.4
1989     185.3      119.1       66.2      37.7       37.7       26.2       57.6
1990     191.5      123.1       68.4      38.8       38.8       27.0       57.8
1991     198.0      127.3       70.7      40.0       40.0       27.8       58.0
1992     204.7      i3l.6       73.1      41.2       41.2       28.7       58.2
1993     211.6      136.1       75.5      42.5       42.5       29.6       58.4
1994     218.8      140.7       78.1      43.7       43.7       30.5       58.6
1995     226.2      145.4       80.8      45.1       45.1       31.4       58.7
1996     233.9      150.4       83.5      46.4       46.4       32.3       58.9
1997     243.3      156.4       86.9      48.1       48.1       33.5       59.1
1998     253.0      162.7       90.3      49.9       49.9       34.8       59.3
1999     263.1      169.2       93.9      51.7       51.7       36.0       59.5
2000     273.7      176.0       97.7       53.6      53.6       37.4       59.7
B - GROWTH FORECAST (Djibouti City Network)
Year          Energy (Production)               Maximum Demand            Annual
Annual      Hot       Cool      Annual      Hot       Cool       load
Season    Season                Season    Season    factor
GWh       GWh        GWh        MW         MW         MW         X
1988     182.9      117.6       65.3      37.3       37.3       26.0       57.4
1989     192.9      124.0       68.9      39.3       39.3       27.3       57.6
1990     203.5      130.9       72.6      41.3       41.3       28.7       57.8
1991     214.7      138.1       76.6      43.4       43.4       30.2       58.0
1992     226.5      145.6       80.9      45.6       45.6       31.7       58.2
1993     239.0      153.7       85.3      47.9       47.9       33.4       58.4
1994     252.1      162.1       90.0      50.4       50.4       35.1       58.6
1995     266.0      171.0       95.0      53.0       53.0       36.9       58.7
1996     280.6      180.4      100.2      55.7       55.7       38.8       58.9
1997     296.1      190.4      105.7      58.6       58.6       40.8       59.1
1998     312.4      200.9      111.5      61.6       61.6       42.9       59.3
1999     329.5      211.9      117.6      64.7       64.7       45.1       59.5
2000     347.7      223.6      124.1       68.1      68.1       47.5       59.7



- 40 -
DJIBOUTI
ANNEX1J.0S
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CAPABILITY OF EXISTING GENERATING PLANT
ON DJIBOUTI NETWORK
INSTALLED       EFFECTIVE        RETIREMENT DATE
Station       Unit   Date       Capacity    Capacity       25 year    20 year
MN          MW           Life        Life
Marabout        Gl    1963         1.5            0          1988        1983
G2    1963         1.5            0          1988        1983
Boulaos 1      Gl    1976          6.05         5.0          2001        1996
G2    1971         4.70         3.8          1996        1991
G3    1969         4.70         3.8          1994        1989
G4    1967         4.70         3.8          1992        1987
G5    1965         4.20         3.8          1990        1985
G6    1974         5.25         3.8          1999        1994
G7    1980         5.70         5.0          2005        2000
G8    1982         5.70         5.0          2007        2002
Boulaos 2      G21   1985         15.25        13.7          2010       2005
G22   1985        15.25        13.7          2010        2005
G23   1988         5.10         4.5          2012        2007
G24   1988         5.10         4.5          2012        2007
TOTAL                             84.70        70.4



- 41 -
DJIBOUTI
ANNEX I.06
GEOTHeMAL DE!'EA.:0P1T RMOJPCT
PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS OF DIESEL GENERATING PLANT
BASED ON 1988 OIL PRICE OF US$16.5 PER BARREL
Fuel  Lub Oil   Maint'ce   Staff       Availability
Station      Unit   cost   cost        cost      cost   Annual  Hot    Cool
$/MWhg $/MWhg     $1MWhg    % 000      1      X       X
Marabout      GI            ASSUMED TO BE RETIRED BY 1988
G2           ASSUMED TO BE RETIRED BY 1988
Boulaos 1     GI   32.08   5.81        6.63       0.00    73    85       60
G2   32.08   5.81        6.63      0.00    73    85        60
G3   32.08   5.81        6.63      0.00    73    85        60
G4   32.08   5.81        6.63      0.00    73    85        60
GS   32.08   5.81        6.63      0.00    73    85        60
G6   32.08   5.81        6.63      0.00    73    85        60
G7   31.25   4.27        5.53      0.00    83    93        72
G8   31.25   4.27        5.53      0.00    83    93        72
Boulaos 2     G21  25.43   2.81        5.30       0.00    75    85       65
G22  25.43   2.81        5.30      0.00    75    85        65
G23  26.38   ;.21        5.30      0.00    80    88        72
G24  26.38   4.21        5.30      0.00    80    88        72
New Diesel   15MW  25.43   2.81        5.30    232.50    75    85        65
NO'.LS:       1.   Staff costs of existing units not included as they are
common to all scenarios.
2.   Maintenance costs for units G7 and G8 assumed 25%
higher than G21-G24 and 50% higher for GI to G6.
3.   Boulaos 1 burning blended fuel (600 sec Redwood)
Boulaos 2 and new units burning heavy fuel
(1500 sec Redwood).
4.   Fuel prices exclude duties and taxes.



- 42 -                       ANNEX 1.07
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Energy in the Economy
(DF aillioa)
1979     1980      1981     1982      1983     1984
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) 46,920   53,527   56,818   59,997   59,997   60,234
Total Imports CIF (a)         28,436   33,390   36,465   38,381   37,423   37,382
Exports (domestic)             2,047    2,171    3,048    2,400        n.a.     n.a.
Re-exports                    12,10P   16,500   17,300   18,000        n.a.     n.a.
Total exports FOB             14,147   19,171   20,348   21,200        n.a.     n.a.
Trade balance (total         -14,289  -14,219  -16,117  -17,181        n.a.     n.a.
exports - total Imports)
Internal market               16,336   16,890   19,165   19,581       n.a.      n.a.
(imports - re-exports)
Domestic Energy Economy
Domestic   market              1,754    3,e69    3,783    3,737    4,040        n.a.
International market:
Imports for aviation           1,303    1,227    1,465    1,552    1,301        n.a.
Imports for shipping and         370       648      731       898       898     n.a.
other (b)
Cost of energy for economy    3,427    5,344    5,979    6,187    6,239         n.a.
(Percentage)
Energy expenses (c):
As a pe-centage of GDP            7.3      9.9      10.5    10.3      10.4      n.a.
As a percentage of net imports 21.0       31.6      30.7    31.6      n.a.      n.a.
(a) Excluding transfers in the free zone; includes products (re-exported
products) destined for the French Army, to other non-residents, and neighbouring
countries. According to United Nations Conventions, the French flilitary Base and
Its personnel (including their families) are in Djibouti to serve the
Interests of France, and are therefore considered as non-residents; their
expenses and their consumption are considered as re-exportation. The
technical advisors and other foreigners are considered as residents.
(b) This figure does not include Diesel fuel used in the tranaportation of
Imported goods. This fuel Is already included in the 'Internal flarket'
category and Is relatively small.
(c) Fire vood and charcoal not Included



DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POWER HISTOGRAM
( 195n7 -    Sa wson)
50 
0  30 
EW  I/                                                                                      I
I)                                                  /
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 1                                            YILIo"
9 10 1 1 12 13 14 15 16 17 1,5 19 20 21 I22 2, 24 Z2 26 2-7 ZO 29 3O Z1 ,'- 3.3 34
P (MW)



DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERML DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POWER HISTOGRAM
t 1987 - Cool 5osnon )
.c     4QQ
00
I-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~-
f7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                             x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
9  10 1 1 12 13 14 159 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 ZE 29 -30 31 32 ;  34
P (M



DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POWER HISTOGRAM
( 1957 - All Year)
6'<0
0                                                                                               U'
I)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
100    A 
9 10 II1 12 1. 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 2. 24 2.5 26 2.7 2.8 29 aJO 31 3Z .3 a4
t     Cod                  -MW  E- Hc- =own



DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERML DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAD DURATION CURVE
Hot 5c                        S
0.7 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
3:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
o,e ID>
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0I
- 0,6 4 -X                                                                         3
MOQ
0,5 - 
0              0,2              0,4             10,6             ,5                1
Number of houn (per unit)



DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAD DURATION CURVE
(CoQl 5wson)
1-
-h e   07                                                                                                            I   
0,5                                                                                                          -
0                0.2                0,4                0,6 6              ,                   1
Nmber of hours (per unit)



DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAD DURATION CURVE
(M,rw~r)
o,s - 21
I.,=
CL2
0,B5 -     
0,4  -
0,3    i                                                                                            O1-    
0.2~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
<Q               9,2                0,4               O,'
,  llse           Number of hourm  (per unit)                              S.,.



- 49 -
DJIBOUTI
ANNEX 1.10
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMPOSITION OF EdD FUEL PRICE
US$/te
600sec            1500sec
Fuel               Fuel
Fuel oil                                         67.53             76.74
Gas oil                                          14.44              -
Blending cost                                    12.2      
FOB                                              94.22  (2)        76.74
Freight and insurance                            17.52             17.52
CIF                                             111.74             94.26
Tax (TIC 28X of CIF)                             31.29             26.39
Surtax                                          .02.0              12.00
Total (including tax)                           155.03            132.65
Local charges (3)                                22.il             21.20
Total (including tax)                           177.14            153.85
Total (excluding tax)                           133.85            115.46
Notes:   1.   based on reference crude price of US$16.5/bbl.
2.   600 sec fuel blended 88X tuel oil/12X gas oil.
3.   includes credit, stocking and local transport charges.



DJIBOUTI
Geothermal Development Project
Org a n i g ramme*                                             EdD - Organization Chart
Board of Oirectoms
(6 Government  Members,                    T                            Chief Acgountant
2 Comer  =1 Officials6
I              ,                    !~~~~~~~~~~~
ViceDieio                                      Vice-Director
Technical Affaiirs                              Administation 
Production          Transmission/             Custo!r er          Administration            Training      |       Informaion              Generalo
Deatent        i      Distrbutn                Senno                                         Center               Department                F
179 Officers          124 Officers           81 Officers            17 Officers           6 Offlicers            IS Oficr               23 Officers
Plat Opeaton          Transmission Plan-     brpoitan Customers     Peanoe Mopt.                                 Infbrmaton Conept      Cast DepL
General Operati:n     ning                    hkdnary C&atomers     InVs Dpt                                       enMana1geet          Tmas  Depl
Efec=l Maitenantce    lres                   C     onern            Socal Se..es                                  Opetaenr co
General Maritance     Owedhead Trniris-      Billing                         t Ex-
WAbrk locabon Of0me   sban Unes               =newecng              pabSeatO.
Lkban OIbiAbon                                                                                                   Budgat Dept
Arita Iglon;                                                                                                     Rnance Dept.
General             Subdi                  Subvision
Services                North                  South
141 Officers          45 Officers            32 Officers
Oea.mg Personnel       Tadjoxah              Dikhrr
Gar3ge                 Obock                 Al Saoeh
:>aureus               tRegons)              (Re9oFlns                                             (Based on 1987 Chart vith recent modifications
Larpente
Matntenance ol                                                                                     concernmq posibon of Thief Accountant")
Faclraes
*.s'etd'u t
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 51 -
ANNEX 2.02
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Asset Valuation Study - Draft Terms of Reference
A. OBJECTIVES
I. Provide EdD with an up-to-date valuation of all the corporation's
existing physical assets. The valuation should be on a basis which is
compatible with the requirements of international funding authorities and
should be in a suitable form for incorporation in EdD's financial
accounting system.
II. Prepare a suitable data base and asset register which EdD can update
annually and utilize for periodic revaluation exercises.
B. SCOPE OF WORK
I. Review details and adequacy of the existing asset register, and any
previous asset valuations or related financial/technical studies undertaken
by EdD.
Conduct on-site inspections of all major assets of EdD, including
land, buildings, generation-, transmission- and distribution facilities,
vehicles, stores and other physical assets. For Djibouti Ville,
Tadjhourah, Obock, DikhilAli Sabieh.
III. Carry out valuation of above assets, based on current replacement
cost approach, together with the indexed historic cost for certain items,
where appropriate.
IV. Prepare asset revaluation report in sufficient detail to be introduced
into the financial and management system of EdD. The report should also
present a new asset register, recommend appropriate methods for annual and
periodic updating of the register and furnish EdD with a simple computer-
based asset register that can be updated by officers of EdD.



- 52 -                      ANNEX 2.03
Page 1 of 2
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EdD - Geothermal Training Program
(including ISERST assistance)
A. EdD
Train-in
EdD is to designate engineers, technicians and others to receive
training in various aspects of geothermal operations and technology. It is
anticipated that the designated EdD engineers will have had university
training in zither mechanical or chemical engineering, chemistry or earth
sciences, or closely related subjects; and that the technicians will have
had secondary school education in mechanics, chemistry or closely related
subjects.
Training is to take 3 forms:
(a)  On-the-job training at the Assal geothermal field.  This is to
involve hands-on training in every step of the field operations
(drilling, logging, testing, fluid handling, etc.) by the
consultants' technical staff.
(b)  Study tours to geothermal fields outside Djibouti.  This is to
involve visits ranging from a few days to several weeks to
geothermal fields similar to Assal (for example: Salton Sea,
California), to observe and participate in various field
operations. This is to be arranged by the consultant firm and the
operator of the other geothermal field(s), with the approval of
EdD.
(c)  Attendance at geothermal short courses and other specialized
training courses offered by geothermal associations, suppliers of
equipment and services, universities and others. This might
include, for example, attendance at a drilling school offered by a
drilling industry association, or a programming school supported
by major computer manufacturers, or at a university-level
management seminar. These are to be arranged as needed, by the
consultant firm with the approval of EdD.
It is anticipated that EdD engineers and senior technicians
permanently assigned to the geothermal project will receive up to 3 years
of on-the-job training and perhaps 3 to 6 months of foreign study. Junior
technicians will receive up to 3 years of on-the-job training.
B. ISERST GEOTHERMAL RESEARCH PROGRAM
It is anticipated that ISERST will continue with research into
geothermal systems elsewhere in Djibouti. This may include one or more of
the partially explored prospects of Arta, Ghoubhet north, Lake Abbe and
Tadjoura. Work is expected to consist of further geological mapping,
geochemistry of soils, water and gas emissions, gravimetry and electrical
resistivity surveys, and possibly microseismic surveys. It is also
possible that shallow holes (50 to perhaps 300 or 400 in depth) will be
drilled for temperature and heat flow surveys at selected prospects.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2.03
Page 2 of 2
Additionally, it may be possible to construct better maps of the
depth to the groundwaters surface; or to analyze seismograms recorded at
the Arta observatory, to determine precisely which faults are active, fault
dip, and recurrence intervals of strong (potentially damaging) earthquakes
in geothermal regions. Much of this work may be performed under terms of
bilateral cooperation between Djibouti and selected donor countries.
Further, EdD may elect to contract with ISERST to perform geological or
geophysical work at the Assal geothermal field on an occasional basis.



- 54 -                      ANNEX 2.04
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EdD - Staffing Profile of Geothermal Division
The proposed Geothermal Division within EdD should be headed by a
Djbioutien mechanical engineer, who will have responsibility for 3 sectors:
(a) Drilling and well maintenance: headed by a drilling engineer or a
mechanica. engineer; staffed by technicians capable of performing
routine operations at the wells.
(b) Well testing and reservoir analysis: headed by a reservoir
engineer or a hydrologist or, if neither is available, by a
mechanical engineer; staffed by technicians capable of performing
routine operations at the wells.
(c) Treatment and handling of geothermal fluids: headed by a chemical
engineer or chemist; staffed by technicians trained in simple
sampling and chemical analytical procedures.
The functions of the Geothermal Division will be to:
(i)   Produce geothermal fluids from the existing wells.
(ii)   Treat the fluid to ensure the availability of high quality steam
for the turbines.
(iii)   Deliver high quality steam to the turbines (operation and
maintenance of turbine-generators, transformers and other
electrical equipment, and transmission lines will be the
responsibility of EdD's generation/transmission division)
(iv)   Dispose of residual or waste fluids via injectioni wells.
(v)   Perform maintenance operations on wells and surface pipeline
facilities.
(vi)   Collect and interpret data on well and reservoir performance.
(vii)   Drill and test new wells as needed (anticipated to be fewer than
one every five years).
Any or all of these functions may be contracted to ISERST, to an
international geothermal consulting firm, or to individual contractors or
consultants; or EdD may arrange to borrow technical staff from ISERST. In
those cases, the required number of staff within EdD may be reduced
accordingly.
Within EdD, the Geothermal Division will receive accounting,
administrative and logistical support from the other appropriate divisions
of EdD.
For the initial 3 or 4 years of operation, the Geothermal Division
will receive support and training from an international geothermal
consulting firm in all aspects cf its area of responsibility.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2.05
Page 1 of 2
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EdD - Consultancy Services for the Geothermal Division
Obiectives
For at least the first 3 or 4 years of operation of EdD's
geothermal division there will be a continuing need for the services of an
internationally recognized geothermal consulting firm in all aspects of
field operations, data collection, fluid handling and treatment, data
analysis and modeling and training of personnel. Thereafter, consulting
services should be provided to EdD on an intermittant basis, as needed.
Qualifications of Consultant
The consulting firm should have recent experience in the drilling,
logging and testing of geothermal wells; treatment of saline high-
temperature brines; management of geothermal wells and surface production
facilities; reservoir modeling and analysis; and training of geothermal
engineers and technicians, in French and English. The consulting firm
should have had recent geothermal work experience in small developing
countries similar to Djibouti, preferably in a comparable geologic
environment.
Work skills to be provided by the consultant are to include, as a
minimum, the followings
Drilling management and supervision
Drilling and well-test engineering
Reservoir engineering (including numerical modeling)
Geology (surface mapping, well-site and subsurface)
Geochemistry (geochemical exploration, reservoir geochemistry and
fluid sampling)
Chemical engineering (scale and corrosion control)
Mechanical engineering (surface piping and steam gathering systems)
Civil engineering (field and camp design and other civil works)
Procurement and stores management
Computer systems development and computer programming
In addition, the consultant is to be equipped for multi-lingual
report preparation and high-speed communication. At least the principal
on-site specialists must read and speak French.
Work Location
Work is to take place at the Assal geothermal field, the offices
of EdD in the city of Djibouti, and the consultants' bhme offices, and at
such additional places as the work may require.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2.05
Page 2 of 2
Scope of Work
The consulting firm shall be responsible for the following work on
a continuing basis:
(i) Design of production and injection wells; management of drilling
and logging operations; management and procurement of supplies and
stores; maintenance of all drilling and logging records; cost
control and accounting.
(ii) Design of well tests; management of well testing operations;
calculation of wellbase and reservoir flow parameters; modeling of
the geothermal reservoir; calculation of reserves; design and
maintenance of optimum flow characteristics.
(iii) Sampling of geothermal fluids; interpretation of chemical
analyses; monitoring of scale deposition and metal corrosion;
scale inhibition or removal efforts; corrosion inhibition
activities; optimization of fluid flow.
(iv)  Design of fluid injection program; maintenance of i% ;tion wells.
(v) Design of fluid piping system; maintenance of surface piping
system; optimization of fluid delivery to power plant.
(vi) Training of designated EdD personnel in all aspects of the above.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3.
Page 1 of 2
DJIBOUTI GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT
PRESENT EdD TARIFF STRUCTURE
(Since 14th February 1983)
Tariffs                          Fixed cost         Consumption       Price
Low voltage                         FD/month        block structure    FD/kWh
I    General (code 03)
PS   36kVA                    350 FD
PS   36kVA                     38 FD/kVA      all units               46
II   Domestic
Code 01 - PS . lkVA           3b) FD          1st : 9OkWh             29
2nd : over 9OkWh        25
Code 02 - PS = 3kVA           560 FD          1st : 90 + 5.PS         37
6kVA          630 FD          2nd : over 90+5.PS    35
9kVA          770 FD
9kVA          880 FD
III  Degressive (code 04)                           1st :  75.PS           46
PS < lOkVA                    300 FD          2nd :  90.PS            42
PS > lOkVA                    880.(PS-10)    3rd : l00.PS             37
4th   over l0.PS        43
III  2nd Degressive (code 05)                       1st :  95.PS           46
PS <  8kW                     300 FD          2nd : 110.PS            42
PS >  8kW                    ll00.(PS-8)      3rd   125.PS            37
4th   over l0.PS        43
IV   Public lighting (code 08)                     unique                  36
V    District Centres
ARTA, OUEAH (code 06)
PS < 36kVA                    350 FD          all units               46
PS > 36kVA                     38 FD;kVA
(code 07) All Sabieh,
Dikhil, Obock, Tadjourah
PS < 36kVA                    350 FD          all units               46
PS > 36kVA                     38 FD/kVA
Code 09      work sites
PS c 18                      5000 FD
PS = 18 -36                 10000 FD          all units               46
PS > 36                       350 FD
Note:    PS   declared power demand



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
DJIBOUTI GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT             Page 2 of 2
PRESENT EdD TARIFF STRUCTURE
(Since 14th February 1983)
Tariffs:    Medium Voltage
Fixed price : FD/month
first block         36 -   500kW                  1100 (PS-8)
second block        above 500kW                    940 (PS-8)
Price of energy : FD/kWh
Djibouti               Ali Sabieh, Dikhil
Arta, Oueah            Obock, Tadjourah
first block           32.00                       46.00
secord block         26.10                        39.10
Size of the first block: kWh/month
for     PS < 200kW                         250.PS
for   201 to SOOkW                         200.PS
for     PS > 5OOkW                         175.PS
Minimum consumption kWh/year
800    PS for teaching institutions
1200 . PS for all other subscribers
(to be revised in the near future)
Note:    PS - declared power demand



- 59 -
ANNEX 4.01
DJlBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EdD - Profit and Loss Statement (1986-i988)
(DF million)
C<1)    <2Z)
1936     199T    198 SBhGET 198B
EtPEUSES
FUEL AN3 OIL                            1334      1637     t578     1807
OrER CONS&VOTION NATERIAL                332       483      413      468
nATERIA', FOR  ORKi                       2LT      244       6       843
USB-TOTAL SUPFLIES                  1913    236        254      3118
EXTERNAL S'ICES                           Y,3      QC4      352      336
lAES & OUTES                             140      152      121      150
(TAXE-S OR WT!RAI FAUOKS)                        (2
StX -TOTE. MAT! R.& SERVICES        2423       S       3027     mm
AGES & SALR;ES                           852      8         920      947
C-ARES                                   139       194      203      276
SUB- Tori L PERSIEL                  991      '078     1123     1223
OTHER COS1                                  a       47      117      219
,UTEREST ONd LAS                         237      264      243      259
EXCHANGE LO!SES                           26       48        56       50
DEPRECIATtI(  OF ASSETS                  1064     1092     1250     1250
AUALS FOI CURR-ACCTS.                    474       157      350      350
UACCLAIS Wa  RISK                        157      767        30       10
SA-TOTPA DEPREC.& ACCR.              1195    2016    1630       1610
TOTAL EXPVI9IES                         5372    673       6196      6965
REVENJES
ENERGY SALE.                            4887    530       5740      5519
IV S AND 5z-RVIC                         302      204       114      104
SUA-TOUL OPEtATING INCOME             1               55       5
CAPITALIZED COSTS                        394      402       84B     1071
FllUUlIAL REVERIS                        1T4      181      283       199
DEPRECtATIO4 CLEWS SUBSIDIES             113      328      300
REVERSAL A-RUALT  CURRENT ACC.             0       55
REVERSAL ACRRUA5 EXCI. LOSS                0        0      447
OTHER NN-ClERATUiG REVENWES                13      42      15       426
-OTAL REVEIJES                          5883    6592      7537     7379
TOTAL WET 1C(I                           511      219     1641      4t4
hEl-CASHrLSJ                            2093     1852     2524
*(1) from p-reliminary figures
*'(2  based on staenit of accounts as cf augut 1988
ovd ertimated devetopment decumber 1988



- 60 -
ANNEX 4.02
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EdD - Balance Sheet  (1986-1988)
(DF million)
RESTRUICTURED
FOR PROJECT IONS
1986     198*  1988C)                1987     1968     REF.
E4JITY & RESERVES                        1637     2143     2324
SUBSIDY DONORS                            469     14S       1483
SJBS!DY O,IENTS                          1.69     15      1315
NET INCO0E                                512      21P     1641
TOTAL EQUITY                         4387     539      6763
ACCRUALS FOR RISKS                       1034     17'S    '381
ACCRUALS FOR CQRR.LOCTS.                                                       969     1315       e)
LOGTERU GOVERNEN- ADVANCE                1506      72       617                                   a)
LONGTERN4 LOAS                           7414     796      7258              -1123     -93f       a)
(THEREOF ACCRED IITEREST)                         (75)     (70)                -79      -7t       a)
Cea&ER CEPOSITS                           391      4!3      505
TOTAL LONGtERPI DEBT                 9441     91'A     838
A CGNS PAYABLE                            391      5'?      658               -196     -21-        b)
OTHER DEBTS                               447     1O0B      1169
(FrHEREOF FR;I OPER!TIIM)               (379)    (55.)    (785)               -553     -7&-       C)
(      FISCAL AMD )TKER)                 (68)    (50 )    (384)                 79       70       a)
(THERE3F LONGTEUM)                   (270-                        -276                a),
(   PAWM.RECEIVED)                    (it      112                  1 J2              c
ToTAL CURRENT _tABILITIES             83S     155       82
BALANCING ENTRY ENHIANSE 6AIRS            195      1C3      196               -12t     -12        d)
(THEREOF FRo LoMG-TEM4 LoAwS)                     M6I)    (75)                 -62      -7S       a)
TOTAL EOUITY & LIhBILITIES              15895    18083    18547              16711 t   7Z22
NET FIXED ASSETS                         9250     96i6     9409
RESTRUCTURED RECErVABLES                    0      337      316
1MENTORIES MET                            87a      9)5      938
(THEREOF ACCRUALS'                                (62)     (62)                 62       62       e)
*DVAUCES SUPPLIER                          77        7       15                 -7      -15       b)
bEr RECEIVABLES ClIENTS                  2921     2635     2746               -563     -79'       c)
(THEREOF ACCRUALS:                      (81?)    (9v)   (125?)                 90?     125?       e)
OTHER RECEIVABLES                         0CB       "0  298
4ThEREOF ADVAICES SUPPLIERS)                     (IND)    (198)               -189     -193       b)
CASH ACCUKULATED                         1944     2h 2     3820               -121     -12t       d)
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                 5920     66%9     7809
BALANCING ENTRY ErCHANGE LOSS             7s      ^41      1013              -1461    -1013       a)
DOTAL ASSETS                            195i    18C!3    '8547               16711      177Z
(*) derived 'ro pteliminary 1ig94rS
EXPLANATIONS F3R rEANSFER OF 3A;ANCE POSIIITOS
TO FINANCIAL. PROJECTIZ:N
a) LONG-TERN LOAINS:                                     c) OTUER S=OT--ERN LIABILITtIES:
LONSTERN GCVERKNENT ADVANCE                              OTHER DIETS
4 LONCTERM LCANS                                         - OTHER DEBTS FROK OPERATION
-ACCRUED) INTIEREST                                     *ACCRUE  IN-EREST
+ OTHER DEBT! (LONGTERM)                                 -OTHER  lEBTS (LCTERN)
* BALANCING ENTRY EXCN. GAtNS (LONG-TERM LOANS)            OTtER DEBTS (PAYN..RECEIVE)
- ALANCING ENlTRY EXCH. LOSS
b) ACCOUNTS PAYABLE:                                     d) CASH ACCUMULATED:
b    ACCOIMTS PAYA8LE                                    CASH ACCLULAtED
ACC- JUTS PAYABLE                                      - 9ALANCtU6 ENTRY E=CR.GAIkS U10 LOIM-TERN
- A4DVANICES BWPLIERS
- OTHER RECEIVABLES tADVANCES RPPLIERS)               e) ACCRUALS CURBEIT ACCUIXIT:
+ INVENTROES (ACCRuALS)
+ RECEIVABLES CLIEIITS (ACCRULS)



- 61 -
ANNEX 4.03
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EdD  - Investment Program
(DF million)
1900     1990     199      1992     1993    1994      19iS              1997      1996     199    TOTAL
tLO FINIACm
LV  6LOAlIA UlrtERIAI             20       60
0JUIJTI-AtTA 20  FADES           20       too       20
VEAININtS 5uM   Vmn               s0      230
7RAIUSUS CEUM CECE                20       130
TADJOS1AH-000 20EV. + REINFORC.  00       2S50               100                                           100
6OLEt-lADJDMNH 6KV                                   20       so      150    1200       1S0
OINSLIOIE OJIDWTtY0I10
S3-TOTAL                     310      770       40       ISO      ISO     12t       ISO        0      10O      20      1000
EXPNllRAt lON/KWRCH              an         75       94
ODIItN6                           47      1339                                                                                       1406
Psina PLAN                        i0ans9 w9                                                                                          2114
E116tlICG                         50       64       112      114       S6       26 86
ASSALODJIUUTI 63KV                                  501      294       41                                                             836
SU-TOTAL GEOtHEIWl          lfS      1i78      1530     1362      191       56       56        a        0        0        0
SW-TOTAL 1.A-FIWUCEI        14i6    238        sle70    1542      341     1Z56      206        0      100      20       1o0w
SMIDY FINANCED
---.---- -. . .- 
LV BALGALA 152                             1106t                                        19                 e        m        2
IWRS3 CCHR   TO  CLIEMIlS       I139                        146      153      161      169       77      tS6       195      205
SB-lU9OAL SUISID  F3UABE    1                           t46      153      161      169      1TT      186       1f       0
SEL F-FINUCED
FUEL SUPP3Y SVSTIN 1500           so       100
CRIO En                 ~~~100    100      100      100       100      100      100      100      100      l00      1Q0
OF-FICE EXTENSIO                 150I
RELOCATION STF0                           IN        100      100
smac    Nfo WSKS                 231        60       s$  20  0        281      295      310      326      342       39       37
SM-TOTAL SELF-F.UA3          531      56       475       4        381      395      410      426      442       459      47
TOTAL IZWSflEIlt                2122      m        113      2176      67      161       7        40        729      854     1682



- 62 -
ANNEX 4.04
Page 1 of 4
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assumptions for Pro1ections (Part I)
(DF million)
1987     1988     1989     1990      1991     1992     1993     199.    1995
EXISION6 LOANS
SEGINNIRS              8101     7523      6867     6295     568s     So09     4513      39       33
ADOOTICE                316       145
REPAYMENT               594      801       572      610      590      582       S4       586      587
ElD                    7523     6867      6295     5685     5095     4513      3929     3313     2756
87 SCIESULE                             640.52   725.72   713.08   709.46       711   713.2t  71.S23
INTEREST                264      243       297      276      251      226      202       176      151
FUTURE LOA
BEGIINING                                    0     1465     3813     5383     6925      7266     849
ADDITION                                  1465     2348     1570     1542       341     1256      206
REPAYTER                                                                         a        73 n1
END                                       1465     3813     5385     6925     7266      8649    "A"
INTEREST                                    0        88      229      323      416      436       so?
TOTAL LOANS
BEGIINNG               8101     7523     6867      7760     9498    10478    11438    11195    11792
ADDITION                316       145     1465     234S     1570     1S42      341      1256      296
REfPAMEIaT 894                   801       sn       610      590      582      589      659       778
E2D                    7523     6867      7760     9498    10478    11438    IIM5    17         122
INTEREST                264      243      297       364      480      549      618      612       658
DEBT SERVICE           1158     1044       869      974     1070     1131      1202     1271     1136
cETolnER DEPOStTS                433      SOS       503      504      527      551   t7           602      629
IWVESTIENTS
REOTNEUL
LOA  FIlAWD               0         0     1155     1578     1530      136       191       56       56
StBSIDY FIMAMCE
COESUNER FtUAOCED
CASPIFLOt EINANCED
tOTAL                     0        0      1155     1578     1530      1362      191       56       56
OtilER
LOAN FINANCED           316       145      310      7m        40       10       150     1200      1S0
SUSIDY FtNAUCED         792        067              18t 4      0        0         0        a        I
CONSUMER F1AN2CED        78       96       126      132       139      146      153      161      169
CASHFLM  FINAU          32        752      531      563      475      488      3i11      395      410
TOTAL                  150       993       967     1645      651.     814      684      1756      72
TOTAt. INVESTMENTS          1509      993      aia      3223     2184     2176      875      1812      78
LOAN FI KANCED          316       145     1465     2348     1570      1542     361      1256      206
SUBSIDY FINANCE9        792         0        0      ISO        0         0        0        0        0
CONSUMER FINANCED        78       96       l26      132      139       146      153      161      169
CASHFLOU FINAN CED      323      752      531       563      475      488      381       395      410
SUOBSIDY OPEC           222
FIXED ASS
BEGINNING              9250     9667      910    10        12229    123    13677    13022    133
ADDITION               1509      993      2122     323      2184     2176      87       1812      75
DEPRECIATION           1092      1250     1232     1294     1429      1482     1531     1485     15a
END                    9667     9410    10300    12229    1298      13677    13022    13349    1262
9EPREC.IN 2            1.u    12.98    13.11    12.61    13.71    11."1    11.2Z    11.41    11.32



- 63 -
ANNEX 4.04
Page 2 of 4
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assumptions for Proiections (Part II)
(DF million)
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
ENEGY SALES
INCREASE                        6.8E     4.0X    4.01     4.02     4.01    '.02    4.A        4L.
SALES IN G6^i4         147      157      163      170      177      184     191      199      20
TARIFF INCREASE                -0.11    -4.02    -4.01     0.5X    0.51    0.5S    0.5       0.51
AVEYAGE TARIFF       36.60    36.56   35.10   33.70    33.87   34.04   34.21    34.38   34.55
SALES fICOmE          s380    5740    5721    57n9    5995    6263    4534    6K2    T7S2
ENE16Y PROUCIlION
LOSSES/SELF-CONS.     22.4U    22.31   21.71    21.1    20.51    19.9t   19.31    18.4    18.01
TOTAL PRUOUCI          180      192      208      215      223      230     23       245      253
THEREOF GEOTHERMAL
THEREOF DIESEL         1SO      192      208     215      223      230      1S7      165      173
FUEL PRICE           35410    30450   31364   32304   33274   34272   35300   36359   37450
100     103      16       109      113      116     119      123
SPEC.FUEL CONS.    0.23675 0.24391  0.23645  0.23645  0.23645  0.2364   0M6S  0.23645  O.2364S
FLUEL COST            1509     1426    1544    1645       15s    1i1       1307    1415    1528
PLANT EFFICIENCY      35.01
PLANT EIAT RAE       1028 KJIKWh
CALORIFIC VAAWE DO   43500 KJ/kg
SPMC.FUE1 CIlS.    0.23645 kg/Kdh
INCREASE PIJCT.-
RELATED COST                             2.82    2.82     2.82    2.01    2.8        2.       2.8S
MATERIAL               611      565      581      597     614      631      649      667r    615
TIEREOF OIl            128      152      131      140     149      158      11      120      130
GEOTl.PR. FO/Ili 0.00175 0.00175  0.00175 0.00175  0.00175  0.00175 0.00175 6.00175  0.00175
P IUEL                 699      717      72      747      762      m        m                 a 
AVERAGE SALARY        1Z65    1283    1290    1296        1302    1309    1316    13         1329
ANIIAL tECREASE                1.431   0.50%   0.50    O.S        C.50%   0.50%   0.30       0.502



- 64 -
ANNEX 4.04
Page 3 of 4
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOP FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.       The investment schedule is based on the assumption that the
geothermal project will be on the grid in 1993. Total investment cost for
the geothermal project amounts to DF 5,928 million (in 1988 prices) out of
which DF 1,044 million consist of the asset transfer of the two productive
wells. No replacement wells are accounted for during the projected period.
2.       For planning purposes, a general assumption is made for all
investments financed by loans, namely a 5 years grace period and a 6%
interest rate. The final maturity is assumed to be 20 years. In practice
it is probable that EdD will obtain several financing arrangements with
more favorable conditions or even by grant (e.g. from Italy for drilling
and the geothermal power plant). Consequently, the calculated debt service
provides for some security margin in the financial projections.
3.       The continuous investments under items 'Works charged to clients'
and 'Studies and other works' are based on budgeted figures for 1988,
namely FD 120 and 220 million, and are subject to a projected annual
increase of 5% (all based on EdD's own schedule).
4.       For purposes of the financial projections, the year 1987 is
included with actual figures after restructuring some of the balance sheet
positions. This was necessary as several common items are spread over
various accounts in the original balance sheet so that no proper projection
or application of ratios would be possible. The transfer from original to
restructured balance is explained separately (Annex 4.02).
5.       The 1988 figures are derived partly from accounts which were only
available during the post-appraisal mission in March 1989 and, partly,
from the income statement prepared by EdD in December 1988 in connection
with the preparation of the 1989 budget, which again was based on accounts
of August 1988.
6.       Price basis for costs, and base year in the projection is 1988.
Local inflation is assumed to be 4% over the basic planning period until
1995 according to Bank projections.
7.       Energy sales increase with an annual rate of 4% (base case
scenario). Tied to the sales increase of 4% are the following items:
- production related cost (70% of the sales increase i.e. 2.8%):
material, external services, taxes and duties on supplies,
inventories;
- related to sales income i.e. subject also to tariff changes:
customer deposits, accounts receivable, provisions for
receivables;



- 65 -                          ANNEX 4.04
Page 4 of 4
-  average tariff ia assumed to be reduced twice by 4% in 1989 and
1990 in order to reflect a cost-covering tariff policy in line
with Bank covenants. From 1991 to 1995, tariffs are assumed to
increase only in relation with projected fuel price increases.
Since only a segment of electricity consumers is contractually
subject to fuel price indexation, the average tariff is expected
to increase by 1/6 of the annual fuel price increase. From 1996
onwards the average tariff will have to increase in line with
inflation in order to secure an adequate result.
9.       An annual fuel price increase of 3% in real terms is assumed to
materialise from 1989 onwards (fuel price index 1988 = 100). The cost for
oil is linked with the fuel price development.
10.      Energy losses (including self-consumption) are expected to
decrease from presently more than 22% to 15% by the year 2000.
11.      Geothermal production is assumed to be available from 1993 on with
an annual output of 80 GWh. Geothermal production cost are estimated at
17.5 DF/KWh (less than US c 10).
12.      The number of staff of EdD is raised in the projections by a fixed
number of 15 over the next years. The average salary shows a merit
increase of 0.5%.
13.      Fixed assets are not revalued yet.  They are depreciated on the
basis of 15 years average lifetime.
14.      For the existing loans, repayments and interest are entered in the
projections on the basis of the debt service schedule provided by EdD based
on currency valuation as of 31/12/1987. The remaining debt is included in
net terms, (i.e. without exchange rate adjustments) and repayment is
projected at original exchange rates. However, provisions for future
exchange gains and/or losses are included based on the 1987 debt
revaluation.   For 1988, there was a considerable development of exchange
rates in favour of EdD so that provisions were reduced by an amount of DF
447 million.
15.      Depreciation of subsidies is explained in para. 3.24 (Audit).  For
1988 to 1991 the recovery of depreciation is still accounted for.
Thereafter, an equal amount of DF 180 million p.a. is projected.
16.      Restructured receivables of DF 307 million are reduced by a fixed
annual amount according to a contractual agreement with the local airport.
(Note: the provisional 1988 accounts show an increase of the receivables
which is recovered in the projections at the 1989 value).
17.      Income tax is included in the projections with 25% based on
information from EdD. Past experience does not confirm such a high rate as
1987 was the first year in which income tax was due. Thus, the projected
tax charges might be slightly too high.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4.05
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EdD Pro1ected Profit and Loss Statement
(FD million)
198'"  198        1989      199      1991     1992      1993     1994     1995
cost
JPPLIES
FUEL4OIL               1637      1578     1675      1l7      1900     2019      1418     1535     1658
CEOTHERMAL                 0        O        a         0        0        0       140      140      140
HATERIAL SWO OtL         483      413      450       457      465      473       538      547      556
EXTERIL SERVICES        404       352      362       372      382      393      404       415      427
TAXES& IIIES             130      121      124       128      131      135       139      143      147
SLD-TOlIAR             2654      2464     2611      2742     2879     3020      2&3      278      2927
PERSONNEL
VMES&SALARIES           884       920      94        968      992      1017     1042     1067      1092
CtARGES                  195      203      208       214      219      224      230       235      241
SiN-TOTAL               1079     11Z3     1152      1182     1211     1241      1272     1302     1333
OTHER COST                     46      117
FIRMLING COST
IOTEREST                264       243      297      364       1.0      549      618       612      466
EXIIWAE LOSSES            48       56       69       116      123       127      127      127      128
SUS-TOTAL               312       299      366      480       603      676      745      739        M
DEPRECIATIOIN                1092     1250      1232     1294     1429      1482     1S31     14SS      150l
ACCRUALS
RECEIVALES               127      330      130       130      136      142       148      155      162
OTlER OURR.ACCTS.        30         0       20        20       ZO       20        20       20       20
EXCUAIIGE LOSS           737
OTMER RISMS              30        30
RUB-TOTAL              2016      1630     1382      144      1585     1644      1699     1660     1690
TOTAL CST                        6107     5633     5510      SB48     6277     6532      6353     6482     636
INCE
SALES IS?4rE            380      570      5         79       5995     6263     6534       842     712
SERVICE IIUONE           171      114      150       150      150      150       1SO      150       ISO
CAPITALIZED COStS        136      215      200       200      2        me        2        200      2
FINANCIAL PROCEES       181       283      200                200      200      209       200      2
DEPIEC. OF SUISID.      328       300      350       350      350       I80      180      180      10
REVERL OF ACCRU    S
FOR RISK                     U7         69      116       123      127      127       127      128
FOR OURR.ACCT.       55
OTHER INC0E               7S      105      0OO       100      100      100       100      100       too
TOTAL NCOME                      6326     7274     6790      685      7118      722      7491      7M       81tO
IET INCGE B.T.                    220     1641      1280      997       41       639     1138      1317     1374
NET-CASIWFL0W                    1852     2524      2243     1976     1953      1976     2529     2670      2755
INCORE T                           4   4 10         32        249      210       160      284      329       343



- 67 -
ANNEX 4.06
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EdD - Proiected Balance Sheets
(DF million)
1967     1968     1989      1990     1991     1992      1993     1994     199
BAANCE SHEET
EQIIT7YRESERVES         2148     2324     3555      4514     5262     59       6372      7m       6213
NEr-tMCOHE              220      1641     1280      997       841      639     1138      1317     1374
CONOMS SURSIES          1483     143      1483      1663     1663     1663     1663      166.3    1163
CONSUIER SU1SIDIES      1519     1315     1091       873      662      628      601       58Z      571
SUB-TOTAL SLtSID.   3002       2798     2574      2536     2325     2291     226       2245     223
SUB-TOTAL EITY       5370     6763      7408     88        8428     81       9774    1078      1182
ACCRUAtS FoR RISKS      1801     134      1315      1200     1077      949       822      695      567
ACCRUALS OtRR.ACCT.    969       1319     1468      1618    177      1935     2103      2278     2460
LOUG-tERN LOANS
CAT ACTUAL RATES)      7523     6867      7760     9498    10478    11438    I195    11792    11220
CUSTOMER DEPOSITS       433       S05      503       504      527      551       575      602      629
LWG-TERN CAPITAL   16095    163        184SS    28r    22264    2367    24469    26155    266S
A;CCMWTS PAYABLE        321        45      500      5W        Soo      Soo      Soo       SW       Soo
OTHER SRT-TERN          29        442      ISO       150      Iso      15        1S0      150      ISO
CURRENT LIABIL.       619      087       650      650       65    0       6S   60 0         6     60
TUTAL EGUITY&LIABILITIES   16714    17724    19         21517    224    24347    25119    z68e5    273U
NEIT FI(ED ASETS       9667     9410    10300    12229    128        1367    13022    13349    1266
RESTRUCT.RECEIVAS.      307       316      27        26       250      23        m        20? 
IVENTORIES              96?      992      1020     1048      10       1108     1139    ln        1204
ACCTS. RECEIVABLE      3029      3        3196      30       33       349      30        361      3
OTWEl RECEEIVMLES        121      100     w1         180      160      10        1 180    I1SO
CUSH ACCNlTED          2623     300       4131     45        5094     58       6905       077     91S5
TOTAL ASSETS                16714    IM4    19105    2151?   294    24S47    25119    2605    274
6121     7111     787?      8374     9050     978      1-i227    12799  13 9
JORKING CAPITAL              3498     3411     3745      3778     3956     4136      4318     45Z2    47i



- 68 -
ANNEX 4.07
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EdD - A: Cash Flow Prolection
(DF million)
1987     1988     1969     .990     1991     1992      1993     1994    l995
SOURCES&APPtICAhfO OF FU0DS
USES IMWSTNENS              1509      993      2122     3223     2184     2176      8J5      1812     7D5
RESTRUCT.RECEIVAI.      307        9      -37       -14      -14      -14      -14      -14      -14
LOAU PIAYNIN            894      go1      572      610       590      S82      584      659      778
I  ONEI IAX              0        14      410      320      249      210       160      284      329
INCREASE WORK.CAP.    -123       -87      334       33       178      t80      182      204      206
TOTAL USE           2W        1768     3401     6171      318?     3134     1787     2945    2084
SOURCES
NET-CASNFLOM           1852     2524     2243      1976     1953     1976     2529    2670      2755
IUCREIASIEPOSITS         42       72       -2        1        23       24       24       27       27
LOANS                   316      145     1465     2348      15?D     1542      341     1256      206
DOOS SOB IOIES         1014        0        0       180        0        0        0        0        0
ON9SMERSU935SI.          78       96      126       132      139       46      153      161      169
TOTAL SOURCES        3302     2837     3832     4636      3605     3667     3067    4114      315S
CASH SURPLUS                 715     107a      431      4.5       *98      553     1261     1169     1074
CASH ACOJ1LAVED             2622     3699     4130    45         50       567      "07      8076     9150
RATIOS   CURREN  RATIO         10.89     9.02    13.12    13.88    14.92    14.0    18.2r?   203    22
ODM  SEN. CtlE         1.60     2.42     2.58      2.13     1.83     1.5      2.11     2.10     1.92
OlJEITIEIt             0.12     0.73     0.76     0.87      0.93     0.95     0.8      0.16     0.76
EdD - B: Projected  Ratios
1987    1988    198        1993     1991     192     1993     1994      95
CURRENT ASSETS         671.0    79       8527     9024     97S      104.4    la"      13249    14529
CUfRENT LIAILiUtIs     619       88?,     650      650      650          6     "O6~    650      650
OJlY  RAT:O           10.89     9.C2    13.12    13.88    14.92    16.35    '8.27    20.38    22.35
E7t-CASUFLO.d          1852     2524     224      1976    1953    ;16        a22       2670     2755
TOtAL DEBT SERICE      i15B     1544      869      974    '0701      15     1202     1271,    1436
DEST SERIf. --fEAGE    1.60     2.42     2.58     2.03      1.83     .V5.    2.11    2.10      1.92
LOWS-TERK L3J"S        7523    6867      7760     9498    10478    11438    11195    1172    112
(AT ACTUAL SATf)
EQUITY                  37      6763     746        m04    8428    am        9774    10787    11821
ACCRUALS EXY..LOSS     181      1386      31      1200     1077      969      622      695       567
DE3TIEOUT,             1.05     0.84     0.89      1.03     1.10     1.17     1.06     1.03    0.91
DEBT :                   51.      46       47       51       52       5Lt      51       51       48
EOUITY                   49       54       53       49       48       46       49       49       52
NET INCOME              220     1641     1280      997      841      (39     1138     1317      1374
INTEREST LONG7.LOAM     264      243      297      364      680      '49      618      612      45
TOTAL AM$ES           16714    1M4    19105    21517   22934    2$w    25t19    26685    27348
RATE OF RE-URN          2.92   .10.61     8.31     6.38     5.28     1.91     7.01     7.22     7.41
WrXIRG CAP17AL         3498    3411      3745     3778     3956    4'36      4318    4522    4728
INCREAS  II ll.C.               -2.51     9.28     0.92     4.71    '.6%    4.42       4.71X    4.61
RECEIVABLES CLIENTS    3029     3206     316      3200     3346     3%98     3650    3821      35
OPtRATING ENCOW!       SSS5     5654     5871     5879    6145    6.13       AA"        0 
MIR$N UECEIVARL.        65        .6       .5      3.5    2.5        2.1)0 
ACCOUNS PUAYALE         321      445      500      SW       S00      SW0      s0a      SW        500
SUWPPLT  CS            2654     2464     2611     2742     2879    3320    2638       2780    29
NOATHS PAVSPLE          1.5      2.2      2.3      2.2      2.1      2.0      2.3      2.2      2.0
TOTAL COST             6107     SW33     5510     558    6277       a        653      649      6736
ENIERGY SAtES           147      157      163      170      7       184      191      199      207



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Cooperation AR:eement EdD - ENEL
(not yet available in final form. Draft of December 1988 available in the
project file.)



D J I 8 00 1 1
fEOTIIEBM   PE9L0FIEU   PROJECT
laeleeotataon schedule
-88                  99.~~~----------- -     - --------90---------9--------- - ----------------- 92 ----------------------
I ABE                   ~~~~~7 8 9 10 1112 H  2 3 4 56789 10 1112: 2 34 5 6 7  9 0 It12 12 3 4 5 4780910It12112:l3 45 67 0 9 10It1211?  2 34    6 1
Aqraemot an Project Orqannkzatino
and Ilanafelt                                                     12.
l nwsnt,wy of Project EQoipset,
SMo11ao and D'ta                                        I
setectzen of cootultant for
Tactoncal and Economic
Fetnibility Stady
I Pnrcl,an &Ard Delivery of
EqeiDuot and Suppluen for
Feasibility Study
loptsanall Cleas-cat of
ASS*L 8o. 3 for Tetting
n Perforanet of Technical and                                          Preli   Rw
Economic feasibility
I Acnsiom  to Proceed
I Bid, Select and hobiltAt grill Rig                                                    6
IDrill 4 Developoatl8ispooal
Nohts I 75 daystIall                                                                                              1
SCosprehrnain  field Ints                                                                                                    is1
I Transport, EreKt caIndlt I
Il Pilot Plant
IBDid Aan Select fire to Porarforo
Posem ta;1weeurigllranaesso,nn
studios                                                                        ,     ,  
3 Perform Pour Engineering/                                                                      : Pro). Oeni&t-
transmission knuqo study                                                                       I       i
I final Beotiuno on Powr-                                                                        I
Plant, Noll Field, Transmission
Lint                                                                                           I 
S Prepare liddie; Documots for,
Pour Plant, Well Field, Trait.
b&O Biad Select kaitlfuld, PouOr
Plant and Tranomisnioe Lint
Contracters
1Iksign and hlieufacture Poser 
Plant 4ad Noll Field Equipm;ent                                                                                                                                    I
IOBnion. Mlanufacture and Constrict
lrarn.isitoni  Line  and  Sabstation                                                                                                                  _________________________
ITransport, Erect and Ttt
Power Plant and 8511 Field Equip.
*Coaaissien Faor plant 
Total Elapse Tine * 45 eonttis



- 71 -
ANNEX 7
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT at
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
IDA Fiscal Year                    Quarterly         Cumulative          X
Quarters Ending                  Disbursements
FY90
September 30, 1989                      500               500           5.2
December 31, 1989                     1,000             1,500           15.8
March 31, 1990                        1,000             2,500           26.3
June 30, 1990                         1,300            3,800           40.0
FY91
September 30, 1990                    1,700            5,500           57.9
December 31, 1990                     1,300             6,800          71.6
March 31, 1991                        1,000             7,800           82.1
June 30, 1991                           800            8,600           90.5
FY92
September 30, 1991                      500             9,100          95.8
December 31, 1991                       400             9,500         100
a/ Closing date of the IDA Credit: December 31, 1991



- 72 -
ANNEX 8.01
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED PHASING OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Item                 1989   1990   1991   199?   1993   1994   1995  Total
US$ million
Drilling (4 wells)                 6.4                                          6.40
Wellfield equipment                        1.95   0.90   0.15                   3.00
Power plant (2x5MW)                       2.45   4.20   0.35                    7.00
Power plant (lMW)(l)       0.98   0.32                                          1.30
Electrical Transmission                   2.68   1.57   0.22                    4.47
Housing/control building           0.50                                         0.50
Drilling supervision       0.25   0.37                                          0.62
Project engineering        0.09   0.27   0.27   0.28                            0.91
Training/Init.Operation                   0.15   0.15   0.30   0.30   0.30   1.20
Project manager            0.18   0.18   0.18   0.18                            0.72
Total (base cost)           1.50   8.04   7.68   7.28   1.02   0.30   0.30  26.12
Physical contingency 10%  0.15   0.80   0.77   0.73   0.10   0.03   0.03   2.61
Total                       1.65   8.84   8.45   8.01   1.12   0.33   0.33  28.73
Notes:   1.   Including small desalination unit ($0.2m).
2.   Costs of completion of exploration phase ($0.9m) are excluded.
3.   Assumes project is commissioned in 1993.
4.   Costs in constant 1988 US dollars.



- 73 -
P eS2e
OMW GEOTHERUAL :993
US S V-
REFERENCE FORECAST                             BASE FUEL PRICE PROJECTIONS
SUMMARY OF COSTS FOR ALL PERIODS
HOT SEASON               COOL SEASON
YEAR      CAP COST FUEL COST OTHER CP. FUEL COST OTHER OP. TOTAL COST
1988           0     2947        955        1628       519         6049
1989        1649     2903        991        1602       537         7682
1990       8840      3043       1029        1678       557        15147
1991       8449      3319       1069        1825       576        15238
1992       8010      3619       1110        1986       598        15323
1993        1120     2678       1565        1073       305         6741
1994        661      2957       1605        1207       326         6756
1995      10934      3262       1646        1355       348        17545
1996        3905     3505        1692       1474       370         10946
1997        781      3771       1794        1621       397         8364
1998           0     4072       1845        1774       425         8116
1939           0     4387       1893        1940       454         8674
2000           0     4737        1955       2120       485         9297
2001           0     4832        1955       2162       485         9434
2002           0     4928        1955       2206       485          9574
2003           0      5027       1955       2250       485         9717
2004           0      5127       1955       2295       485          9862
2005        1760      5230       1955       2341       485         11771
2006           0      5335       1955       2387       485         10162
2007           0      5441       1955       2435       485         10317
2008           0      5550       1955       2484       485         10474
2009           0      5661       1955       2534       485         10635
2010           0      57'.       1955       2584       485         lQ799
2011           0      5890       1955     I 2636       485         10966
2012           0      6008       1955       2689       485         11136
2013           0      6128       1955       2742       485         11310
2014           0      6250       1955       2797       485-        11488
2015           0      6375       1955       2853       485         11669
2016           0     6503        1955       2910       485         11853
2017           0      6633       1955       2969       485         12041
PRESENT VALUES AT
0%     46109   141893       52384       64557    14142        319085
5%     36533    68339       26165       31653      7602       170293
8%     32235    48434       18792       22739      5746       127946
10%     29804    39837       15535       18883      4919       108977
12%     27655    33557       13115       16062      4299        94688
15%     24869    26955       10524       13089      3626        79063
NOTE: REPLACEMENT WELL IN 2005 TO COVER RESERVOIR DEPLETION



- 74 -
pjrBmfn~~~~r~2T
DIESEL OPTION
us So000
REFERENCE FORECAST                             BASE FUEL PRICE PROJECTIONS
SUMMARY OF COSTS FOR ALL PERIODS
HOT SEASON               COOL SEASON
YEAR     CAP COST FUEL COST OTHER OP. FUEL COST OTHER OP. TOTAL COST
1988           0     2947         955        1628        519        6049
1989           0     2903         991        1602        537        6033
1990           0     3043        1029        1678        557        6307
1991           0     3319        1069        1825        576        6789
1992      10934      3619        1110        1986        598       18247
1993       3905      3948        1153        2159        618       11783
1994         781     4225        1211        2345        633        9195
1995           0     4595        1252        2552        655        9054
1996           0     4870        1299        2699        677        9545
1997      10934      5183        1348        2876        707       21048
1998       3905      5523        1406        3059        735       14628
1999         781     5860        1511        3252        767       12166
2000           0      6238       1566        3463        792       12059
2C01           0      6363       1.66        3532        792       12253
2002           0      6490       1566        3603        792       12451
2003           0      6620       1566        3675        792       12653
2004           0      6752       1566        3748        792       12859
2005           0      6e87       1566        3823        792       13069
2006           0      7025       1566        3900        792       13283
2007           0      7166       1566        3978        792       13501
2008           0      7309       1566        4057        792       13724
2009           0      7455       1566        4139        792       13952
2010           0      7604       1566        4221        792       14.183
2011           0      7756       1566        4306        792       14420
2012           0      7911       1566        4392        792       14661
2013           0      8070       1566        4480        792       14907
2014           0      8231       1566        4569        792       15158
2015           0      8396       1566        4661        792       15414
2016           0      8563       1566        4754        792       15675
2017           0      8735       1566        4849        792       15942
PRESENT VALUES AT
OS     31240   183605       42522       101812      21830      381009
5S     22540    86706       21563        48039      11171      190020
8S     18800    60517        15668       33509       8162      136656
10     16750    49223       13060        27245       6829      113107
12X     14985    40987       11122        22678       5835       95607
15X     12772    32354        9043        17892       4766       76827



- 75 -
urxW
GBDTHEF     EVEL hMlWbN PRJECT
1OMW GEOTHERMAL 1993
US $ 000
REFERFNCE FORECAST                               CONSTANT 1988 FUEL PRICES
SUMMARY OF COSTS FOR ALL PERIOOS
HOT SEASON               COOL SEASON
YEAR     CAP COST FUEL COST OTHER OP. FUEL COST OTHER OP. TOTAL COST
1988          0      2947        955        1628       519        6049
1089       1649      3051        991        1684       537        7912
1990       8840      3158       1029        1741       557       15325
1991       8449      3274       1069        1800       576       15168
1992       8010      3393       1110        1862       598       14973
1993       1120      2386       1565         956       305        6332
1994        661      2505       1605        1022       326        6119
1995      10934      2626       1646        1091       348       16645
1996       3905      2757       1692        1160       370        9884
1997        781      2899       1794        ;246       397        7117
1998          0      3059       1845        15-:       425        6662
1999          0      3221       1893        1;a4       454        6992
2000           0     3399       1955         1521      485        7360
2001           0     3399       1955         1521      485        7360
2002           0     3399       1955        1521       485        7360
2003           0     3399       1955         1521      485        7360
2004           0     3399       1955        1521       485        7360
2005        1760     3399       1955        1521       485        9120
2006           0     3399       1955        1521       485        7360
2007           0     3399       1955         1521      485        7360
2008           0     3399        1955        1521      485        7360
2009           0     3399       1955         1521      485        7360
2010           0     3399       1955         1521      485        7360
2011           0     3399       1955         1521      485        7360
2012           0     3399       1955         1521      485        7360
2013           0     3399       1955         1521      485        7360
2014           0     3399       1955         1521      485        7360
2015           0     3399       1955         1521      485        7360
2016           0     3399        1955        1521      485        7360
2017           0     3399        1955        1521      485        7360
PRESENT VALUES AT
OX     46109    96458       52384       44325    14142       253418
5X     36533    50669       26165       23820      7602      144789
8X     32235    37707       18792       18000      5746      112481
1OX     29804    31945       15535       15407      4919       97610
12%     27655    21640       13115       13464      4299       86173
15%     24869    22988       10524       11357      3626       73364
NOTE: REPLACEMENT WELL IN 2005 TO COVER RESERVOIR DEPLETION



- 76 -
,EEML    W       E&M     PFoJr
DIESEL ODTION
US SDOO
REFERENCE FORECAST                               CONSTANT 1988 FUEL PRICES
SUMMARY OF COSTS FOR ALL PERIODS
HOT SEASON               COOL SEASON
YEAR     CAP COST FUEL COST OTHER OP. FUEL COST OTHER OP. TOTAL COST
1988           0     2947        955        1628       519        6049
1989           0     3051        991        1684       537        6263
1990           0     3158       1029        1741       557        6485
1991           0     3274       1069        1800       576        6719
1992       10934     3393       1110        1862       598       17897
1993       3905      3518       1153        1924       618       11118
1994         781     3578       1211        1986       633        ag89
1995           0     3700       1252        2055       65i        7662
1996           0     3831       1299        2124       677        7931
1997       10934     3984       1348        2211       707       19184
1998        3905     4149       1406        2298       735       12493
1999         781     4303       1511        2388       762        9745
2000           0      4476       1566       2485        792       9319
2001           0      4476       1566       2485        792       9319
2002           0      4476       1566       2485        792       9319
2003           0      4476       1566       2485       792        9319
2004           0      4476       1566       2485        792       9319
2005           0      4476       1566       2485       792        9319
2006           0     4476        1566       2485       792        9319
2007           0      4476       1566       2485       792        9319
2008           0      4476       1566       2485       792        9319
2009           3     4476        1566       2485       792        9319
2010           0     4476        1566       2485       792        9319
2011           0     4476        1566     I 2485       792        9319
2012           0      4476       1566       2485        792       9319
2013           0     4476        1566       2485       792        9319
2014           0     4476        1566       2485        792       9319
2015           0      -476       1566       2485       792        9319
2016           0     4476        1566       2485       792        9319
2017           0     4476        1566       2485       792        9319
PRESENT VALUES AT
OX     31240   123454       42522       68431    21830       287477
5X     22540    63209       21563       35002    11171       153485
8X     18800    46201       15668       25568      8162      114399
lOX     16750    38662       13060       21387      6829       96688
12X     14985    33043       11122       18272      5835       83257
15X     12772    26998        9043       14922      4766       68501



- 77 -
pilemi ~  ~       ~      ~             8e
CEffrMERNAL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ P* CefiPO  PM       
10MW GEOTHERMAL :993
US S C3
x=======
REFERENCE FORECAST                             BASE  _jEL PRICE cROJECTIONS
SENSITIVITY TO GEOTHERMAL CAPITAL CCST        20% )
SUMMARY OF COSTS FOR ALL PERIODS
HOT SEASON               COOL SEASON
YEAR     CAP COST FUEL COST OTHER OP. cUEL COST OTHER OP. TOTAL COST
1988           0     2947        955        1628       519        6049
1989        1979     2903        991        1602       537        8012
1990      10600      3043       1029        1678       557       16915
1991      10139      3319       1069        1825       576       16928
1992       9612      3619       1110        1986       598       16925
1993        1345     2678       1565        1073       305        6966
1994         793     2957       1605        1207       326        6888
1995      10934      3262       1646        1355       348       17545
1996       3905      3505       1692        1474       370       10946
1997         781     3771       1794        1621       397        8364
1998           0     4072       1845        1774       425        8116
1999           0     4387       1893        1940       454        8674
2000           0     4737       1955        2120       485        9297
2001           0     4832        1955       2162       485        9434
2002           0     4928       1955        2206       485        9574
2003           0     5027        1955       2250       48         9717
2004           0     5127        1955       2295       485        9862
200t        2112     5230        1955       2341       485        12123
2006           0     5335        1955       2387       485        10162
2007           0     5441        1955       2435       485        10317
2008           0     5550        1955       2484       485        10474
2009           0      5661       1955      -2534       485        10635
2010           0     5774        1955       2584        485       10799
2011           0      5890       1955       2636       485        10966
2012           0     6008        1955       2689       485        11136
2013           0     6128        1955       2742       485        11310
2014           0     6250        1955       2797       485        11488
2015           0     6375        1955       2853       485        11669
2016           0     6503        1955       2910       485        11853
2017           0     6633        1955       2969       485        12041
PRESENT VALUES AT
0%     52208   141893       32384       64557    14142       325184
5%     41657    68339       26165       31653      7602      175417
8%     36907    48434       18792       22739      5746      132618
10%     34213    39837       15535       18883      4919      113386
12%     31826    33557       13115       :6062      4299       98859
15%     28721    26955       10524       13089      3626       82916
NOTE: REPLACEMENT WELL IN 2005 TO COVLR RESERVOIR DEPLETION



-78 -
-z~~~~~~~~~~~~--
CEOTHERIUL DEV1ELOMENT PRWhECT
IOMW GEOTHERMAL 1993
us So000
REFERENCE FORECAST                             BASE FUEL PRICE PROJECTIONS
SENSITIVITY TO RESERVOIR CEPLETION
----------------------------------
AND WELL SCALING RATES - G--OTHERMAL MAINTENANCE +25X
- REPLACEMENT hELLS IN 1999, 20C5 AND 2011
SUMMARY OF COSTS FOR ALL PERIODS
HOT SEASON                COOL SEASON
YEAR     CAP COST FUEL COST OTHER OP. FUEL COST OTHER OP. TOTAL COST
1988           0     2947         955        1628      519         6049
1989        1649     2903         991       1602       537         7682
1990       8840      3043        1029       1678       557        15147
1991       8449      3319        1069        1825      576        15238
1992       8010      3619         1110       1986      598        15323
1993        1120     2678        1765       1073       305         6941
199A        661      2957         1805       1207      326         6956
1995      10934      3262        1846       1355       348        17745
1995       3905      3505        1892       1474       370        11146
1997        781      3771        1994       1621       397         8564
1998           0     4072        2045        1774      425         8316
1999        1760     4387        2093        1940      454        10634
2000           0     4737         2155      2120       485          9497
2001           0     4832        2155        2162      485         9634
2002           0     4928        2155        2206      485         9774
2003           0      5027       2155        2250      485         9917
2004           0      5127        2155       2295      485         10062
2005        1760      5230       2155  -   2341        485         11971
2006           0      5335        2155       2387      485         10362
2007           0      5441        2155       2435      485         10517
2008           0     5550        2155        2484      485         10674
2009           0      5661       2155        2534      485         10835
2010           0     5774         2155       2584      485         10999
2011        1760      5890       2155       2636       485         12926
2012           0      6008        2155       2689      485         11336
2013           0     6128         2155       2742      485         11510
2014           0     6250        2155        2797      485         11688
2015           0     6375        2155        28!3      485         11869
2016           0     6503        2155        2910      485         12053
2017           0     6633         2155       2969      485         12241
PRESENT VALUES AT
0%     49629   141893        57384      64557    14142        327605
5X     38135    68339        28484      31653      7602       174214
8X     33290    48434        20362      22739      5746       130570
10     30618    39837        16775      18883      4919       111031
12X     28291    33557        14112      16062      4299        96321
15X     25318    26955        11263      13089      3626        80252



- 79 -
OEOTffRUAL CnOEVMWtb PRQWJrX
1OMW GEOTHERMAL 1994 (ONE YEAR OELAY)
us $'000
REFERENCE =ORECAST                             BASE FtUEL PRICE -E--:CS
SUMMARY OF COSTS FOR ALL PERIODS
HOT SEASON               COOL SEASON
YEAR     CAP COST FUEL COST OTHER OP. FUEL COST OTHER CO. -OTAL CCSt
1988           0     2947        955        1628       519         eo49
1989           0     2903        991        1602       537         6033
1990       5947      3043       1029        1678       557        12254
1991       9136      3319       1069        1825       576        15925
1992       6838      3619       1l10        1986       598        14151
1993       5200      3948       1153        2159       618        13078
1994        948      2957       1605        1207       326         7043
1995      11595      3262       1646        1355       348         8206
1996       3905      3505       1692        1474       370        10946
1997        781      3771       1794        1621       397         8364
1998           0     4072       1845        1774       425         8116
1999           0     4387       1893        1940       454         8674
2000           0     4737       1955        2120       485         9297
2001           0     4832       1955        2162       485         9434
2002           0     4928        1955       2206       485         9574
2003           0     5027       1955        2250       485         9717
2004           0     5127       1955        2295       485         9862
2005        1760     5230       1955        2341       485        11771
2006           0     5335       1955        2387       485        10162
2007           0     5441       1955        2435       485        10317
2008           0     5550       1955        2484       485        10474
2009           0     5661       1955        2534       485        10635
2010           0     5774       1955        2584       485        10799
2011           0     5890       1955        . 2636     485        10966
2012           0     6008       1955        2689       485        11136
2013           0     6128       1955        2742       485         11310
2014           0     6250       1955        2797       485        11488
2015           0     6375       1955        2e53       485        11669
2016           0     6503       1955        2910       485        11853
2017           0     6633        1955       2960       485        12041
PRESENT VALUES AT
0%     46110   143163       51972       65643    14455        321343
51     35848    69334       25843       32504      7848       171377
81     31255    49298       18512       23478      5959       128502
101     28664    40625       15279       11557      5113       109239
121     26380    34277       12881       16678      4477        94694
151     23430    27587       10319       13629      3782        78747
NOTE: REPLACEMENT WELL IN 2005 TO COVER RESERVOIR DEPLETION



- 80 -
j                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DJTBSallT
3nUHOaL DEIJfllr<N PRWA3T
i.uw GECT-ERVA-. .,33
.s S $^
GROWTH FCRECAST                               EASE FUEL PRICE  ORZ%EC-.ZNS
SUMMARY OF COSTS FOR ALL PERICOS
HOT SEASC.               COC. SEASON
YEAR     CAP COST FUEL CCST CTHER CO.  FUEL CCST CTHER OP. -ZT   COST
1988          0      3011         978      ;661      531        6e81
1989       1649      3031        1038      1668      561         7-47
1990       8840      3251        1103      1782      593        15569
1991       8449      3627        1172      1979      628        15855
1992       8 ,10     4048        1245     2201       665        16169
1993      12054      3191        1722      1352      384        :8703
1994       4566      3619         797      :565      423        :1970
1995        781      4061        1911      1804      463         9020
1996      10934      4463        1991     2014       505        19907
1997       3905      4900        2075     2243       550        13673
1998        781      5365        2224     2491       597        11458
1999          0      5871        2313     2761       646        11591
2000           0     6420        2406      3055       699        12580
2001           0     6548        2406      3116       699        12770
2002           0     6679        2406      3178       699        12963
2003           0     6813        2406      3242       699        13160
2004           0     6949        2406      3307       699        13361
2005        1760     7088        2406      3373       699        15326
2006           0     7230        2406      3440       699        13775
2007           0     7375        2406      3509       699        13989
2008           0     7522        2406      3579       699        14206
2009           0     7672        2406      3651      699         14429
2010           0     7826        2406      3724       699        14655
2011           0     7982        2406      3-799      699        14886
2012           0     8142        2406      3874       699        15122
2013           0     8305        2406      3952       699        15362
2014           0     8471        2406      4031       699        15607
2015           0     8640        2406      4112       699        15857
2016           0     8813        2406      4194       699        16112
2017           0     8990        2406      4278       699        16372
PRESENT VALUES AT
0%     61729   185905        62877    88936    19128        418575
5%     48049    87168        30899    42053      9856       218026
8a     41935    60635        21956    29461      7255       161244
10%     38493    49239        18021    24054      6107       135914
12%     35462    40957        15109    20124      5253       116905
15%     31555    32312        12005    16019      4337        96227
NOTE: REPLACEMENT WELL IN 2005 TO COVER RESERVOIR DEPLETION



- 81 -
caST*7mAL amBlOPENiT PROJECr
DIESEL C^-'CN
us S C__
GROWTH FORECAST                                BASE FJEL PRICE 5ROJEC7ZINS
SUMMARY OF COSTS FOR ALL PERIODS
HOT SEASON               CCOL SEASON
YEAR     CAP COST FUEL COST OTHER vP*.  UEL CZS- C7.ER OP. 7OTA, CCST
1988           0     3011        978        1661       531         6181
1989           0     3031       1038        166.       561         6298
1990           0     3251       1103         1782      593         5729
1991      10934      3627       1172        19.9       628        18340
1992       3905      4048       1245        2211       661        12070
1993         781     439.       1328        2435       693         9632
1994      10934      4881       1401        2704       773        20693
1995       3905      5429       1483        3005       775        14597
1996         781     5834       1605        3239       813        12272
19S7      10934      6297       1682        3496       857        23266
1998       3905      6806        1775       3774       904        17164
1999        781      7339       1927        4073       954        15074
2000           0      7925      2022        4399       1006        15352
2001           0     8084       2022        4487       1006        15598
2002           0     8245        2022        4577      1006        15850
2003           0     8410       2022         4668      1006        16106
2004           0      8578      2022         4762      1006        16368
2005           0      8750      2022        4857       1006        16635
2006           0      8925      2022         4954      1006        16907
2007           0      9103      2022         5053      1006        17184
2008           0     9285       2022         5154      1006        17468
2009           0     9471       2022         5257      1006        17756
2010           0     9661       2022         5362      1006        18051
2011           0     9854       2022    ,  5470        1006        18351
2012           0    10051       2022       - 5579      1006        18658
2013           0    10252       2022         5691      1006        18970
2014           0    10457       2022         5804      1006        19289
2015           0    10666       2022         5920      1006        19614
2016           0    10879       2022         6039      1006        19946
2017           0    11097       2022         6160      1006       20285
PRESENT VALUES AT
0O     46860   227642       53133      126220    26851        480705
5X     34635   105521       26350       58--l    13451        238411
8S     29286    72697       18867       40'        9694       170787
10%     26324    58603       15575       324__      8036       140963
12%     23754    48365       13138       26748      6806       '18811
15%     20502    37688       10540       20828      5491        95049



- 82 -
DJIBOUTI                    ANNEX 8.03
Page 1 of 6
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Analysis
1. Background. Prior to the preparation of the analysis below, three other
economic analyses had been carried out. (Details in Annex 8.04). The
first analysis, in 1981, estimated the cost of power derived from the
geothermal field to be less than half compared to diesel-generated,
conventional power. A second analysis, in 1983, concluded that electricity
produced from a geothermal plant would cost US$0.10/kWh compared with a
cost using diesel generators of US$0.13/kWh. A third analysis, in 1986,
found that geothermal energy is more economical than diesel, provided that
(i) the average price of oil is at least US$17/bbl over the life of the
project, and (ii) the test discount rate is to be lOpercent or less.
2. Methodology. For purposes of the present analysis, the economic rate of
return of the geothermal project has beea calculated against the next best
alternative of continued development of diesel capacity at Boulaos.
Development programs were prepared for each alternative for both the
reference and growth forecasts (Annex 8.05). The geothermal programs
comprise a mix of geothermal and diesel plant and are compared with all
diesel programs. A conservative 25-year life has been assumed for existing
diesel generators. A simulation of the operation of the Djibouti system
was made for the period up to the year 2000 on a seasonal basis to take
account of the markedly different hot and cool season load characteristics
and plant maintenance scheduling. The seasons were designated:
Hot season    -  May to October
Cool season   -   November to April
Histograms showing the incidence of demand between the seasons (in
Ahnex 1.08) were based on actual load data for 1987. These were used to
derive annual and seasonal load duration curves (Annex 1.09) for the
production costing analysis.
3. Plant Characteristics and Fuel Costs. The table in Annex 1.06 shows the
performance characteristics of existing and candidate diesel plant. The
diesel fuel costs are based on a 1988 reference oil price of US$1j.5Ibbl,
corresponding to a delivered oil price, excluding duties and taxes, of
US$115.46/te for the 1500 sec fuel oil and US$133.85/te for the blended
600 sec fuel (Annex 1.10). The specific fuel consumptions include a small
proportion of gas oil for starting and stopping of the engines. All
maintenance other than routine running maintenance is assumed to be
scheduled during the cool season.



- 83 -
ANNEX 8.03
Page 2 of 6
Fuel costs are based on the Bank's oil price projections (expressed in
constant 1988 US dollars/bbl)s
1988             16.5
1989             15.3
1990             15.6
1995            22.5
2000             26.3  thereafter 2 percent increase per annum
The cost of the new diesel plant is based on US$880/kw installed, plus the
following allowances:
Physical contingencies                       5 percent
Engineering and site supervision             5 percent
EdD mavagement and supervision               5 percent
Fuel a..d lubricating oil stocking  1         $0.37m per 15 NW
This gives a total capital cost of US$15.62 million, equivalent to
US$1040/kw. The investment cost is assumed to be phased over 3 years as
follows:
Yc - 2             Yc - 1            Ye
15 percent        80 percent        5 percent
where Yc is the first year of service.
4. Geothermal Plant. The project includes 2 x 5 MW back pressure units
plus a 1 MW unit which would drive a small desalination plant. The total
net output after allowing for power station auxiliary and desalination plan
consumption and transmission losses over the 100 km 63 kV single circuit
line to Djibouti City is estimated at 10.3 MW. The capital cost estimate
for the geothermal plant adopted for the economic analysis is based on the
following assumptions:
- the costs of exploration are treated as sunk, and are therefore
excluded.
- both Assal 3, after cleaning up, cnd Assal 6 will be productive,
providing about 4.5 MW; Assal 4 will be used as a reinjection well.
1 The fuel currently used by EdD at the oulaos power station is a blend
of medium fuel oil and gas oil in the proportions 88 percent and 12 percent.
EdD pays a premium of about 15 percent to cover the higher priced gas oil and
the blending costs.   It is intended to change over to heavy fuel (1500 sec
Redwood) on the four newer units at Boulaos which are capable of burning 1500 sec
fuel without modification. The older units will probably continue to burn the
blended medium fuel and EdD will purchase equipment to process the relatively
small quantity required on site. The adoption of the cheaper 1500 sec fuel will
therefore reduce the fuel savings attributable to a 10 MW (2 x 5 MW) geothermal
pla.t which would displace energy from baseload diesel plants.



- 84 -
ANNEX 8.03
Page 3 of 6
- power will be transmitted to Djibouti (Boulaos) via a single circuit
100 km 63 kV overhead line. If the prospects of proving steam for
additional geothermal plant are good, consideration might be given
to constructing a double circuit line but only stringing one circuit
initially.
- four new wells are required, assuming 75 percent success rate and
3.5 MW per productive well.
- t.echnical performance will be required, both during the wellfield
development and power plant construction and for the initial three
years of operation of the project, with a cost of US$1.92 >.
The annual availability of the geothermal plant was assumed to be 89
percent (94 percent in the hot season and 84.5 in the cool season).
Operating costs were as follows:
US$ million per annum
Staffing (50 persons x US$8,000)                  0.40
Wellfield/power plant maintenance                 0.20
Transmission maintenance                          0.04
Insurance (1 perceut of plant plus transmission) 0.16
Total                                         0.80
5. Results of the Analysis.  The results of th- analysis are set out in
Annex 8.03. The equalizing discount rates between the geothermal plus
diesel and all diesel programs were evaluated over the assumed 25-year life
of the geothermal project. At rates higher than the eqializing rate, the
diesel programs are more economic because future fuel sa:qingt afforded by
the geothermal plant are more heavily discounted, whereas at rates below
the equalizing rate, the geothermal programs are preferred. The equalizing
discount rates are summarized below for the base case and other cases
examined to assess the sensitivity to changes in key parameters affecting
the economics of the geothermal project:
Equalizing
Discount Rate
(percent)
(a) Bare case (reference forecast)                      12.9
(b) Growth forecast                                     13.9
(c) Constant future fuel prices (real terms)             9.4
(d) Geothermal capital cost + 20percent                  9.9
(e) High scaling/reservoir depletion                    11.5
(f) One-year slip in geothermal program                 13.0
In all cases, the geothermal project is preferred at the 8 percent
opportunity cost of capital.



- 85 -
ANNEX 8.03
Page 4 of 6
6. Economic Rato of Return. The internal economic rate of return (ERR) for
the geothermal power project has been computed based on (a) the incremental
sales revenue provided by the project and (b) fuel cost savings from units
of electricity generated by the geothermal plant in addition to the sales
increment. The capital and operating costs include (a) development of the
steamfield and gathering system, including depletion and reinjection wells,
(b) the power plant and associated transmission to Djibouti and (c)
distribution and EdD administration corresponding to the sales increment.
7. The ERR of the project, based on direct benefits measured in terms of
sales revenues and fuel cost savings, is 12 percent (Annex 8.03), which is
higher than the opportunity cost of capital. The calculation of the ERR
does not take account of consumer surplus. A reduction of 20 percentage
points in the geothermal plant factor (from 89 percent to 69 percent)
reduces the ERR to 10.2 percent, which is still significantly higher than
the cost of capital.
8. The geothermal project represents the least cost development to meet
forecast demand growth on the main Djibouti system. The equalizing
discount rate (12.9 percent) is higher than the opportunity cost of
capital. This conclusion is robust over a reasonable range of variation
of key parameters.
9. Under the reference forecast, the 10 MW geothermal plant should be in
service by 1994 at the latest to avoid a capacity shortfall on the EdD
system. Furthermore, the rate of return of the project is not sensitive to
earlier commissioning as the additional fuel savings it affords are
balanced to a large extent by the additional cost of advancing the capital
investment. In other words, the economic feasibility of the project is not
critically dependent on the geothermal plant being commissioned by 1993,
the earliest feasible date, in order to minimize the risks of plant
shortages discussed in para. 1.30.



- 86 -
ANNEX 8.03
Page 5 of 6
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS ON CALCULATION OF
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
l.       Bases
The bases underlying the calculation of the internal economic rate
of return (IERR) of the IOMW geothermal project are detailed below.
2.       Load forecast
rhe analysis is based on the reference forecast, 4% per annum
increase in consumption (Annex 1.04 - A).
3.       Project timing
The geothermal project is assumed to be commissioned in 1993.
4.       Project benefits
The benefits of the project are (M) generating additional revenues
for EdD and (ii) fuel cost savings.
(i) the geothermal project is assumed to meet the increment of load
growth from 1993 to 1996; revenues are based on the proposed
revised tariffs (DF 34.5/kWh or 19.7 US cents/kWh).
(ii) for 1993 the total output of the geothermal plant is
attributable to fuel cost savings, calculated at an average
rate corresponding to the fuel and other variable operating
costs of units G23 and G24 at Boulaos (Annex 1.06).
5.       Distribution and Administration
These are based on the increment of load growth supplied by the
project and EdD internal tariff study (June 1988), as follows:
(M) Distribution costs
MV      FD  6195/kW/year  (US$35.4/kW/year)
LV      FD 14648/kW/year  (US$83.7/kJl/year)
Demand increment assumed to be 50% MV and 50% LV.
(ii) EdD Administration
New consumer.s FD 6'60/consumer/year (US$35.2/consumer/year).



- 87 -
Dug&R      RoKWFJKr
ECONOM:Z RA'E Z- RcETuRN
L S S
REFERE-NCE =ZRECAS7                          CCNSTA%T  .9S8 C_E  F9:CES
YEAR    CAPITA.    Z & M  DOST'N &  _EL COST    SALES            NET
COST              AOMIN    SAVINGS  REVENUE       BENEFIT
1988          0                                                    0
1989       1649                                                -1649
1990       8840                                                -8840
1991       8449                                                -8449
1992       8010                                                -8010
1993       1120      B00                  2882                   962
1994        661      800        :2        2624    't234         2285
1995          0      800        224       2358      2502        3836
1996          0      800        337       2082      3822        4767
1997          0      800        337       2082      3822        4767
1998          0      800        337       2082      3822        4767
1999          0      800        337       2082      3822        4767
2000          0      800        337       2082      3822        4767
2001          0      800        337       2082      3822        4767
2002          0      800        337       2082      3822        4767
2003          0      800        337        2082     3822        4767
2004          0      800        337       2082      3822        4767
2005       1760      800        337       2082      3822        3007
2006          0      800        337       2082      3822        4767
2007          0      800        337        2082     3822        4767
2008          0      800        337       2082      3822        4767
2009          0      800        337        2082     3822        4767
2010          0      800        337       2082      3822        4767
2011          0      800        337        2062     3822        4767
2012          0      800        337        2082     3822        4767
2013          0       800       337        2082     3822        4767
2014          0      800        337        2082     3822        4767
2015          0      800        337       2082      3822        4767
2016          0      800        337       2082      3822        4767
2017          0      800        337        2082     3822        4767
IERR =        12.0X
__-- ___--- __-_----- _----------------_ ---------------------_-__-___-_--_-__ -__ -_ --__ -_-_ --_-_ _-_



- 88 -
ANNEX 8.04
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Findings of Previous Studies
Previous studies
The first economic analysis of geothermal energy in Djibouti  was
conducted by Aquater in 1981. In the report "Technical Economic
Study of Geothermal Pre-Feasability", (1982), Aquater estimated
the cost of power from the geothermal field to be less than half
that of power produced by the diesel generators at Boulaos.
Aguater's   prefeasibility study  assumed  the  installation of a
20 MW geothermal power plant costing' $ 73.25 million.
A second studv was carried out in 1983 by economists associated
with the OPEC Fund ("Appraisal of Geothermal Exploration Project
in the Republic of Djibouti", OPEC Fund for International
Development, 1983). This study, which was based on the Aquater
report cited above, confirmed that geothermal power was more
economic  than diesel generated electricity in Djibouti.  It  was
estimated that electricity produced from a geothermal plant would
cost 10 c/kWh (US)  compared with a cost using diesel  generators
of 13 c/kWh.
A third analysis was conduc':ed in 1986 by Renato Pugno, an
economist associated with ElectroCcnsult in Italy. This analysis
is presented in Annex 8.2 of the National Energy Plan (ISERST,
1987).
Pugno argued that the cost of exploratior should be regarded as a
"sunk cost", and that this cost should therefore be excluded from
the investment required to install the geothermal plant.
Given this hypothesis, geothermal energy was found to be more
economic than diesel if two conditions hold:
- the average price of oil is at least 17 $ (1983)/bbl over the
life of the project.
- the test discount rate is considered tc be 10% or less.
The  present  study  considers the economic  feasability  of  the
geothermal  project  as  an  option in  the  development  of  the
electricity  system  of Djibouti.  It is not simply a  comparison
between  the  production costs of geothermal against  diesel  but
addresses the following important issues:
- does  geothermal have a place in the least cost development  of
the Djibouti electricity system?
- if so, what capacity should be installed initially, and at what
date?



Station  hit       Pale        1:stle    Utf.      1966     19U66II 6               136  1911912                      mS 1I4NS,  1      1,11     1998      199      2660
8OWIOS I   C1    1986           6.05      5.0       5.8      5.0       5.0      5.0       5.6      5.0      ;.S       5.6       6.0               5.6..              5 S.l  S.6
Ct    tol         4.1        3.       3.8       3.8      3.6       3.6      3.6       3.8      3.3      3.1
63    1969        4.1        3.1      3.6       3.6      3.6       3.6      33.       3.6
64    1967        4.7        3.6      3.8       3.1      3.1       3.8
65    1965        1.2        3.4      3.4       3.4
66    1974        5.25       4.2      4.2       4.2      4.2       4.2      4.2       4.2      4.2       4.2      4.2      4.2       4.2
61    196l         5.1       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0      5.P       5.0      5.0      5.0
go    1962        5.1        5.0      S.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0
BOULiOS 2    621   I965        15.25     13.1      13.1     13.1      13.1     13.1      13.      13.1     13.1      13.1     13.1      13.1     13.1      13.1    13.1
622   1965       15.25      13.1     13.1      13.1     13.1      13.7     13.1      13.7     13.1     13.1      13.t     13.7      13.7     13.1     13.1
623   19168       5.1        4.5      4.5       4.5      4.5       4.5      4.5       4.       4.5      4.        4.5      4.        4.5      4.5      4.5
624   1988        5.1        4.5      4.5       4.5      4.5       4.5      4.5       4.5      4.5      4.5       4.5      4.5       4.5      4.5      4.5
MOdal Installed                       10.4      10.4    61.0       61.0     63.2      63.2     59.4     59.4      55.6     55.6      55.6     51.4     51.4
argiU                                 1 18.1    16.7     16.1      11.7     10.1      16.1     16.1      18.1     16.1      16.1     16.1     16.1      13.1
0u&ranteed                            51.1      51.1     46.3      46.3     44.5      44.      40.1      40.1     36.9     36.9      36.9     22.1     32.1
bh e  (lhfeece loreati                36.6      37.1     31.6      40.1     41.2  .  4.5       4.1       45.1     4.       46.1      4.9      51.1     53.6
Suplus (i / Pficit l-)                15.1      14.0      9.5       8.3      3.3       2.0     -3.1      -1.1     -9.5    -11.2   -13.0    -19.0   -20.9
......................................................................................................................   ..................                ...........
DIS1L P130611 - 6111i/25
IDI    1914        15.0      13.1                                                              13.1     13.1      13.1     13.7      13.1     13.1     13.1
ID2    1999        15.0      13.1                                                                                                             13.1     13.2
total te capacity                                                                              13.1      13.T     13.1     13.1      13.7     2T.4     1.4
Surplus after ae  capacity                                                                     10.1      3.3       4.2      2.5       0.1      6.4      6.5
..................................    ............................. .... .................... .... ............  ................................ ... ........
GROTSR3NL O1t1O3 - 6/911/25
610I   1993         11.0     10.3                                                     10.3     10.3      10.3     10.3      10.3     10.3     10.3      10.3
IDI    199?        15.0      13.1                                                                                           13.1     13.1      13.1     13.1
Total Bev capacity                                                                    10.3     10.3      10.3     10.3      24.0     24.0     24.0      24.0
Surplus after me  capacity                                                           12.3      1.1       5.9      0.8      12.8     11.0      5.*       3.1
.......................................................... ................................................................ .............................................. . ..........    . c.......o...............    ...
0~
VI'



6IOtEIIKAL I DIESEL COIFAIISOII ItS 1163 DIISIL Lulll
6010tl IOBEC&St
Station    gait    Date          letld    Uff.        1988      1989       1990      1991      1992      1993       1994      199S      1996      1991       1998      1999      t000
lustId        11        IV
----------  ..... ....... ............................................................................. .....................................................................................................................  
DOOLIOS I    GI    1976            6.05       5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0       5.6       5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0        5.0       5.O       5.0
02    1971          4.1        3.8        3.8       3.8       3.0       3.8       3.6        3.6       3.6       3.6
43    1969          4.?        3.8        3.8       3.6       3.8       3.8       3.8        3.8
G4    1967          1.?        3.8        3.8       3.8       3.8       3.8
GS     1965         4.2        3.4        3.4       3.4
G6     1974         5.25       4.2        1.2       4.2       4.2       4.2        4.2       4.2       4.2       4.2        4.2       *.2       4.2
6?     1980         5.7        5.0        5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0        5.0       5.6       5.0       5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0       5.0        5.0
Go    1982          5.7        5.0        5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0       5.8        5.0       5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0        5.0
800LIOS 2    621   1985           15.25      13.1      13.7       13.1      13.1      13.7      13.1      13.?       13.1      13.1      13.7      13.7       13.7      13.1      13.1
622   1985         15.25      13.1       13.?      13.1      13.'      13.1      13.1       13.1      13.1      13.7       13.1      13.1      13.?       3.?       13.1
C23   198'          5.1        4.5        4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5        4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5        4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5        4.5
024   1988          5.1        4.5        4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5        4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5        4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5        4.5
total lastalled                           10.4      10.4      61.0      61.0      63.2       63.2      59.4      59.1       55.6      55.6      55.6       51.4     51.4
larHl                                     18.7      18.1    I.I        18.1       16.1      18.1      16.1      '8.l       18.1      13.1      18.7      18.1       18.1
Guaranteed                                51.1      51.1      48.3      48.3       44.5      44.5      40.1       40.1      36.9      36.9      36.9       32.?     32.1
Denand (Growth lorecast)                  31.3      39.3      41.3      43.4      45.6       47.9      50.4      53.0      55.7       58.6      61.6      64.1      11.1
Surplus  *) / Deficit (-)                 14.4      12.4       1.0       4.9       -1.1      -3.4      -9.1     -12.3     -18.8    -21.7    -24.7    -32.0    -3S.4
DIS8L P10O36U - 0/D10/25
IDI    1993          15.0      13.1                                                          13.1      13.1      13.1      13.1       13.?      13.1      13.1      13.1
ID2    1996          15.0      13.?                                                                                        13.1       13.7      13.1      13.1      13.1
ID3    1399          15.0      13.7                                                                                                                       13.1      13.1
total Bel capacity                                                                           13.1      13.7      13.7      27.4      27.4       27.4      41.1       41.1
Surplas after new capacity                                                                   10.3       4.0       1.4        1.6       5.7       2.7       9.1        5.t
.................. ........ 0.,,,,....... ... ... .................................................................... t..........
GEOTHIRKAL OPTION - G/C01/25
G101   1993          11.0      10.3                                                          11.3      10.3      10.3       10.3      10.3      10.3       10.3      10.3
IDI    1995          15.       13.1                                                                              13.1      13.1       13.1      13.?       13.1      13.1
ID2    1998          15.0      13.1                                                                                                             13.?       13.?      13.1
total net capacity                                                                           10.3      10.3      24.0       24.0      24.0      37.?       31.7    3Jt7
Surpla5 after aev capacity                                                                    6.9       0.6      11.7        5.2       2.3      ;' 0        5.1       2.3                  o
.__--------------------------- ti. ----_ ___  --e-----e--^--------...                                            ...  -*----,--m------r --'--F-'-'---'''--'-'--'---------------- ---- -------'- 



- 91 -
ANNEX 9
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Documents in the Proiect File
1. Draft eooperation Agreement EdD - ENEL (December 1988).
2. Djibouti - National Energy Plan, Office of the President/ISERST (July
1987).
3.  EdD - Annual Report 1986, 1987.
4. EdD - Financial Report 1986, 1987.
5. Aquater - Technical/Economic Study of Geothermal Pre-feasibility (March
1982), 2 volumes.
6. ISERST/UNDP (Mr. Petcu) - Perspectives de Developpement du System
Electrique et Tarification de l'Electricite (November 1986).
7.  Kennedy & Donkin (P. Beard) - Economic Analysis of Geothermal Power
Project in Djibouti (December 1987).
8. GeothermEx, Inc. (J. Koenig) - Assessment of Results of the Assal
Geothermal Drilling Program (January 1988).
9. Kennedy & Donkin (P. Beard) - Djibouti Geothermal Power Project
(September 1988).
10. List of EdD's major delinquent customers.



-             Pg:lAAIA               l,, ,                                                                                                                   DOUMFIRA
/ I'~          /v- ,., DJIBOUTI
t1 U.AN                        (                               fI' ' GEOTHERMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT / - ;
FT.l!    ',             ,OAI                                                                                                                       .---
,'             /E                                                                                                          N;                     ".  .N.<
)  |f THAInPI A_ '..\
-    /  K&-YA 9cA-                                                /          '
_ t ;,----      >                                 .  -;s >., 1 oddoio                                                          --------
/
Mala             > r       l                                                                          -       - .
~~~~~~~v~~~~~ ~                                                                                            '. d I-                                                  -  4 
turtr lr/                                              .                                    /               ,                        "'      -t,                           '--   --
< rordfon ~      ~          /  IM r-                                                                                                                                 ./ I*6s _    
1 l ts VMISr Ahr M/                                       *                            -.4--I
h-.U~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                       /' *' rr Giu /
,                     \'                                                                              '                   '%            ,.
,                         ~~~~~~~Rondo;_,     h                  |                <                                           G/
/                             \             \                            Doy}: .-<"              \     }                                                                    ,, r 4,,-
-      A-    -.                                                                                                          \        / 4                          ,
                             t                                           In1 e,,        I                                                                 /
A,~~~~~~~~-
'4A//at  '                                                           au/ power lines                                                           L =  200 - 400                                     .
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZhA  Addedawfln                                                                              \              -           lu:,r
_-                                                                                    k_.4                   / .
I  [TI-,    flPiA                                                         (         4                  ---   -.-,r-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  orrai--------
'U-I                                                                          /       (0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l,I'
M.d.Mt.        .      Wd,d,II.
4/.',,-                       4          -.                          600~~~~~~~~~~~~F"d- 60 es0 -10e
Pw4~ oanamptN entin~                                      --     _     __         -400-600
Emast'ng pawe line                                                                                                                h        2C0-400
-      Praose paoe lines



