Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2055 DJI
                 (Geothermal Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                      ELECTRICITE DE DJIBOUTI
                      Dated October 16, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2055 DJI
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  October  16,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the  "Association")  and  ELECTRICITE DE
DJIBOUTI ("EdD").
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Djibouti (the "Borrower") and the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to seven
million   one    hundred    thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 7,100,000), on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that EdD agree
to undertake such obligations  toward  the  Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and EdD,  the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit  Agreement will be made available
to EdD on the terms  and  conditions  set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS EdD, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. EdD declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to  this  end,  shall  carry out the Project
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate  administrative,   financial,  economic,  engineering,
environmental and public utility  practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided,  promptly  as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by  the provisions of the Schedule to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. EdD shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04.  EdD  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, EdD shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  2.05.  (a)  EdD   shall,   at  the  request  of  the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of the  Project,  the  performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  EdD  shall  promptly  inform   the  Association  of  any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance  by  EdD  of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. Among the  information  to  be furnished to the
Association by EdD pursuant to  Section 2.03 of this Agreement and
Section 9.06 of the General  Conditions,  EdD shall furnish to the
Association the following reports  in  a  format acceptable to the
Association:
     (a)  at monthly  intervals  during  the  carrying  out of the
studies under Part A (a) of  the Project, progress reports on such
activities;
     (b)  at  least  once  weekly   during  the  carrying  out  of
development drilling, a communication on such activities; and
Page  3
     (c)  as soon as possible after  completion of the drilling of
each well, a drilling report.
     Section 2.07. In order to  carry  out  Part C of the Project,
EdD shall:
     (a)  prior to  the  beginning  of  operations,  submit to the
Association  a  development  drilling  plan  satisfactory  to  the
Association;
     (b)  promptly update such plan in accordance with the results
of the drillings and other studies;
     (c)  study the selection of  any  new drilling site under the
plan in consultation with the Association; and
     (d)  obtain the  Association's  consent  with  regard  to the
selection of  any  new  drilling  site  under  the  plan, provided
however that such consent shall not be required if the Association
and EdD shall  have  agreed  on  a  geothermal development area in
Assal Field which shall  be  updated,  if necessary, in accordance
with the results of the  drillings by mutual agreement between the
Association and EdD..
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of EdD
     Section 3.01. EdD shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
economic and public  utility  practices  under  the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. EdD shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property and, from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering, financial,
economic and public utility practices.
     Section  3.03.  EdD   shall   take   out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  EdD  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  EdD shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited;
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
*
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
Page  4
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. EdM shall:  (a)  not  later than June 30, 1990,
submit  an  evaluation  of  its   fixed  assets,  carried  out  in
accordance  with  sound  and  consistent  methods  of  accounting,
inclusive,  if  said   evaluation   shows   its  necessity,  of  a
revaluation action program satisfactory to the Association;
     (b)  promptly thereafter carry  out  the actions contained in
such action program agreed upon with the Association; and
     (c)  at all times thereafter  make adequate annual provisions
for depreciation and renewals  of  its  fixed assets in accordance
with sound and consistent accounting practices satisfactory to the
Association.
     Section 4.03. EdD shall take such steps as shall be necessary
to ensure that the level  of  its total receivables overdue in the
twelve preceding months,  excluding  the  overdue receivables from
the  Borrower  and  from  entities  receiving  subsidies  from the
Borrower, not exceed two points five months' billings by not later
than December 31, 1991 and two  months' billings by not later than
December 31, 1992.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of EdD  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the  date  twenty  years  after  the  date  of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with  its  terms  before  the  date  specified in para-
graph (a) (ii)  of  this  Section,  the Association shall promptly
notify EdD of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
Page  5
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For EdD:
          B.P. 175
          Djibouti
          Republic of Djibouti
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                Djibelec-Djibouti             5842 DJIBELEC
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of EdD,  or  by  EdD on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by its General  Manager  (Directeur  d'Electricite)  or such other
person or persons as EdD shall designate in writing, and EdD shall
furnish to the  Association  sufficient  evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    ELECTRICITE DE DJIBOUTI
                    By /s/ Robley Olhayeh Oudine
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").
Page  6
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Small  lots  of   equipment,   spare   parts,  materials  and
consumables  estimated,  after  grouping  into  economical bidding
packages, to cost  not  more  than  $200,000  equivalent, up to an
aggregate amount of $2,000,000  equivalent,  may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   With  respect  to  each   contract   estimated  to  cost  the
equivalent of more  than  $200,000,  the  procedures  set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   With respect to each  contract  not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  3  and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     For the  purposes  of  execution  of  the  Project, EdD shall
employ consultants whose qualifications,  experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be  selected  in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
