The World Bank
FOR oMcIAL USE ONLY
CA. /,».s.C.N
Report No. P-4391-CD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 14.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 9, 1987
Ihis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performiance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -  CFA franc
US$1.00         s  CPAF 345 a/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIEP        -  Bureau interministeriel des etudes et de la programmation
(Interministerial Office for Studies and Planning)
CAM         -  Caisse autonome d1amortissement (Debt Amortization Fund)
COTONTCHAD - Compagnie cotonniere du Tchad (Chad Cotton Production
Company)
IRCT        -  Institut de recherche sur le coton et les textiles
exotiques (Institute for Cotton and Textile Research)
MDAR        -  Ministere de l'agriculture et du developpement rural
(Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development)
DMPCP       -  Ministere delegue A la presidence charg6 du plan
(Planning Ministry Attached to the Office of the President)
MEHP        -  Minist&re de l'levage et de l'hydraulique pastorale
(Ministry of Livestock and Water Development)
MTE         -  Ministere du tourisme et de l'environnement
(Ministry of Tourism and Environmental Protection)
ONDR        -  Office national de d6veloppement rural (National Office
for Rural Development)
ONHPV       -  Office national de l'hydraulique pastorale et villageoise
(National Office for Village and Pastoral Water)
Mru         -  Management Unit for the project (Bureau de gestion)
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31
Project Management Unit: October 1 - September 30
a/ As of December 1986



Fx oRciL USE ONLY
RFPUBLIC OF CHAD
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Chad
Beneficiaries:       The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
(MADR), the Ministry of Livestock and Water
Development (WEEP) and the Ministry of Tourism and
Ejvironimental Protection (MTE)
Credit Amount:       SDR 14.5 million (US$17.4 million equivalent)
Cofinancing:        None
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:         The project would have two distinct objectives for
rehabilitating the agriculture sector and accelerating
development in the wake of a devastating civil war
(1979-82) aid a debilitating drought (1984). First, it
would support economic recovery through development of
key rural irstitutions and rehabilitation of productive
facilities in the rural sector. Second, for the longer
term, it would enhance Government's planning capacity
in the rural sector by implementing pilot actions to
establish optimum approaches for rural development and
planning in key sub-sectors.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnmne
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoizaLtion.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:
% of
Base
Local          Foreign       Total      Costs
- US$ million
1. Institutional Development
(a) Ministries                   1.1             2.7           3.8       26
(b) Support to Planning Bureau  0.3              0.9           1.2        8
(c) Support to Project
Management Unit            0.2             0.5           0.7        5
2. Emergency Rehabilitation            0.8            2.2           3.0        20
3. Pilot Actions                       0.7            2.0           2.7        18
4. Sector Planning                     0.5            2.4           2.9        20
Refinancing of Project
Preparation Facility                -              0.5           0.5         3
Base Costs                         3.6            11.2          14.8       100
Contingencies                      0.9             1.9           2.8
Total Project Costs              4;5            13.1          17.6
Proposed Financing Plan:
IDA                                4.3            13.1          17.4
Government                         0.2              -            0.2
Total                            4.5            13.1          17.6
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
FY88       FY89       PY90      FY91      FY92
Annual                     3.4        4.8        5.0        3.2      1.0
Cumulative                 3.4        8.2       13.2       16.4     17.4



- iii -
Project Benefit.:         In the short-term-the project would strengthen
end Improve key rural development institutions and
reactivate immediately productive facilities in
the rural sector. Concomitantly, the adoption of
new policies and strategies would improve and
revitalize the operations of existing Government
rural development organizations. For the medium-
to long-term, Improved planning procedures would
indicate directions for rationalizing the rural
development ministries and for specific action
programs for future projects to be financed by the
Bank Group and other agencies.- Specific results
expected from the project would include a greatly
improved statistical data base in the main
agriculture sub-sectors, training or re-training
of key staff in MADR, MEHP and WEE, the creation
of manuals for technical and organizational
operations, and the rehabilitation of key rural
development facilities.
Project Risks:            Two main risks might prevent the project from
attaining its objectives. First, in spite of
the Government's successful efforts to restore
peace through its reconciliation policy, fighting
continues in the far north. The security
situation in the areas where project activities
are planned is, however, good and the Government
is firmly established. Second, the project
depends heavily on the performance of technical
assistance personnel. This risk has been
minimized by establishing precise terms of
reference and recruiting procedures (i.e.,
contracting with a single reputable consulting
firm). It would be further reduced by providing
frequent and close supervision during project
implementation.
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
There is no Staff Appraisal Report.
Map: IBRD 20030R1, Chad Agricultural Rehabilitation Project.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL REHAI1LITATION PROJECT
1.        1 submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development   eredit  to  the  Republic  of  Chad  for   SDR  14.5  million
(US$17.4 million equivalent) to help finance an agricultural rehabilitation
project. The credit would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on Chad  (Report No.  1340-CD) was
distributed  to  the  Board  on  June 30,  1977.   Bank  Group  activities,
including economic and sector work, resumed in May 1985 after several years
of interruption due to civil war. Country economic data are given in
Annex I.
Background
3.        Chad is a landlocked, Sahelian country (Map IBRD 200301R) with an
area of 1,284,000 kmi and three climatic zones. In the northern Saharan
zone soils are sandy, annual rainfall is less than 300 mm and the dominant
activity is nomadic and transhumant livestock herding, with crop production
limited to oases and to the lowlands during occasional flooding.  The
central Sahelian zone, with mixed sand and loam soils and 300-600 ma of
rainfall, combines transhumant and sedentary livestock herding in the North
with extensive rainfed cultivation in the South, centered on millet and
sorghum. In the southern Sudanian zone, which covers 25% of the country's
area, soils are heavy clay and the annual rainfall ranges from 600 mm to
1,200 mm, allowing the production of cotton as a cash crop and cereals,
tubers, and groundnuts as major food crops.
4.        The population was estimated at about 5 million in 1985, with a
low average density of about 4 inhabitants per square kilometer. About 3%
of the population inhabits the Saharan zone, 57% the Sahelian zone and 40%
the Sudanian zone. Although about 80% of the population lives in rural
areas, the urban population has been growing at an annual rate more than
threefold that of the total population (6.4Z compared with 2.1%).  The
capital city, N'Djamena, is estimated to hive about 400,000 inhabitants.
5.        Development Constraints and Potential.  With a per capita income
of about US$130 in 1985, Chad is classified as one of the poorer and less
developed  countries  in the world.   It ranks near  the bottom  of the
low-income economies with respect to life expectancy, literacy and health
related indicators.   Moreover, political conflict  in recent years has
disrupted economic and social activities and discouraged investment.
Development is also constrained by natural factors such as the country's
landlocked position, long internal distances and climatic variability.
Chad's positive factors include a dynamic informal sector spurred by a



-2-
liberal economic system, a good agricultural and irrigation potential due
to vast expanses of arable land and two perennial rivers feeding Lake Chad,
and low population density. In addition, the country has considerable but
under-exploited livestock resources, oil resources currently being studied
for exploitation, and other mineral reserves yet to be evaluated.
Structure of the Economy
6.        Agriculture, Including livestock, forestry and fishing, provides
a livelihood for about 85% of the population and generates 44% of GDP. In
1985 food crops, the main output, contributed 231 of GDP while non-food
cash crops (mostly cotton) accounted for 4%, and livestock and fishing for
17%.  The industry and energy sectors, partly developed, accounted for
about 20% of GDP while the service sector, consisting of formal and
informal  commercial  activities,  generated  about  36Z of GDP.   Overall
industrial production derives mainly from six enterprises:   COTONTCEAD
(cotton lint, oil and soap). Brasseries du Logone (beer), STEE (electricity
and water), STT (textiles), MCT (cigarettes) and SONASUT (sugar).
7.        The Chadian economy has two predominant features:  first,  the
dynamic nature of its informal sector, which helped ensure the survival of
the country throughout the civil war-although the extensive use of
informal channels deprives the State of an important source of revenue;
second, the dominance of the cotton sector in the non-subsistence economy,
which represents 80% of export earnings and 13% of crop production in
normal years, is a source of income for two-fifths of Chad's population and
absorbs more than 50Z of domestic credit. Sector activities are organized
by COTONTCHAD, a mostly government-owned company solely responsible for
purchasing, processing and marketing Chad's cotton.
8.        The Civil War (1979-82).  Just prior to a devastating three-year
civil war, the Chadian economy had reached peak production, with a GDP of
CFAF 162 billion (US$157 per capita in 1977) due to a record cotton crop.
In addition to its active informal sector, Chad had four domestic banks,
several large domestic manufactures, and about 90 small and medium
enterprises (SMEs). Although data for the civil war period are limited and
unreliable, the drop of about 30X in aggregate output reflects the economic
disruption at the time. The formal modern sector was the hardest hit, with
most industries severely reducing or suspending operations. The banking
sector shut down for two years, as did the Central Bank. Only the cotton
industry continued to operate, overcoming great logistical difficulties and
resulting in an average seed cotton production of about 65% that of
1973-77. More than half of the SMEs were destroyed or temporarily shut
down. The population of N'Djamena fell to less than a third of its pre-var
level of 300,000, and the city was largely destroyed. The few expatriates
left the  country.   Political administration at all levels  ceased  to
function, and public utilities and government services were abandoned.
Much infrastructure and physical capital were destroyed or dilapidated from
neglect; the road network, in particular, deteriorated severely, crippling
internal trade and producing economic fragmentation.



-3-
9.        Post-War Developments.   Hissein  Habr4,  now  President  of  the
Republic of Chad, took control of N'Djamena in June 1982. His government
controls the territory south of the 16th parallel, which contains 97% of
the country's population.  However, the continued occupation of most of the
barren northern zone by opposing forces since 1983 imposes burdensome
military expenditures on the Government and is a constant political threat
which discourages potential investment.  In the rest of the country, the
Government launched a program of national reconciliation, raising hopes of
a lasting political stability and resulting in the beginning of economic
recovery:   in  1983,  real GDP grew by 5.5%  (77% of the  1977  level).
Reconstruction ensued and the population of N'Djamena rose to its pre-war
peak. However, economic recovery was stalled in 1984 by an unprecedented
drought and by a crisis in the cotton sector.
10.       The  Drought.   The  1984  drought  had  Immediate,  severe  and
widespread effects, particularly in the Sahelian zone, creating a flux of
refugees in the South. Food production dropped from about 600,000 tons in
1975-80  to 300,000  tons, or half  of total requiremnts.   However, a
UNDP-coordinated relief effort carried out with the Government's full
cooperation succeeded in averting widespread famine, and displaced
populations were settled in productive agricultural areas. Good rainfall
in 1985 allowed food production to nearly regain the self-sufficiency
level, but the situation remains fragile due to the continual threat of
drought, the risk of a premature return of displaced populations to
ecologically unstable areas in the Sahelian zone, the dilapidated road
network and the lack of agricultural support services. The potentially
disruptive effect on production and marketing of the massive food
distribution and remaining food aid stocks has been averted by prudent
controls on deliveries.
II.       The Cotton Sector Crisis.  A severe disequilibrium in the world
cotton market caused its world price, in current dollar terms, to drop by
40X between mid-1984 and mid-1985.   With the depreciation of the U.S.
dollar, this fall has brought about a drop of more than 50% in the CFAF
price of Chad's cotton exports (from about CFAF 800/kg F.O.B. Douala). The
hitherto profitable national cotton production company (COTONTCHAD)
operates now at a loss, with operating deficits of CFAF 18.1 billion
(US$52.5 million) in 1984 and CFAF 19.2 billion (US$55.7 million) in 1985.
These deficits exceed estimated government revenues for 1985 and 1986 and
are, given market prospects, beyond COTONTCHAD or the Government's ability
to support or correct. As a result of the cotton crisis, COTONTCHAD has
accumulated arrears with the domestic banking system totalling CFAP 43
billion. On November 25, 1986, the regional central bank, BEAC, approved
the rescheduling of this debt over 10 years with a 5-year grace period.
Servicing this debt is bound to prove difficult largely because, owing to
the high level of world cotton stocks, only gradual price recovery is
expected before 1992.  The urgent needs of the cotton sector are being
addressed through the Emergency Cotton Sector Program (Cr. 1716-CD),
approved by the Board in June 1986 (para 27). The implementation of the
program is progressing satisfactorily.



-4-
Progress Toward Recovery
12.       Despite the drought and continued political difficulties,  the
Chadian economy is recovering. Reconstruction and resumption of economic
activities have been facilitated by exceptionally good cotton production
and exports in 1983 and 1984 which, together with favorable world market
conditions, have helped to boost government revenues and to replenish
foreign exchange reserves. The re-establishment of the administration and
the growth of revenues have allowed the resumption of goverament services
on a limited scale: schools have reopened, teachers are being trained, and
enrollments are in absolute terms higher than pre-war levels. Health
services have improved through foreign assistance: facilities are more
numerous,  the  National  School  of  Public  Health  reopened,  and  a
village-level basic health care program has been launched; however, infant
mortality is still at an estimated 184 per 1,000 births and life expectancy
is 44 years.   Both  sectors  also  face  financial  constraints  and lack
personnel, training programs, equipment and supplies.
13.       Other sectors have experienced rapid recovery. In  1986, Chad
enjoyed food self-sufficiency for the second year in a row, and although
real GDP probably registered a modest growth, real per capita income
remained below its 1977 level due to population growth. The Central Bank
reopened in 1983, and two banks, the Chad International Bank for Africa
CBIAT) and the Chad Credit and Savings Bank (BTCD), have resumed
operations. In the subsistence sector and small-scale activities, recovery
has also been impressive despite weak public services and limited domestic
credit.   Although this resurgence of economic activity and GDP growth
allowed the Government to more than double revenues (from CFAF 9 billion to
CFAF 22 billion) between 1983 and 1985, by end-1986 the loss in cotton
export tax proceeds had caused revenues to drop to CFAF 18 billion.
Expenditures still outstrip revenues, and fiscal deficit relative to
revenues is expected to have increased from 22X (1984 and 1985) to 35% as
of end-1986. Public expenditures remain low relative to current needs, due
to government restraint, particularly regarding the civil service payroll;
civil servants are still receiving only 60X of their 1978 salaries in
nominal terms, or about one-third in real terms.
14.       Bank credit has expanded rapidly in the last three years, with
credit to the public sector dropping, as of end-1985, to 5% of total
outstanding domestic credit.  This credit expansion and the balance of
payments surplus led to a 60% increase in money and quasi-money supply in
1984 which, due to the cotton crisis and the deterioration of the balance
of payments, slowed down to an estimated 10% increase in 1985. Although no
consumer price index has been compiled in Chad since 1979, the limited
information available on selected commodities reflects an average annual
inflation rate of 8-102 for the 1979-85 period.
15.       Chad's balance of payments, like most economic indicators, varies
with the fortunes of cotton. The 1983 and 1984 surpluses in both the
current account and the overall balance resulted from increased cotton



-5-
exports over these years, but for 1986 the overall balance of payments will
register a deficit estimated at about CFAF 7 billion due to a small cotton
crop and a lower world price in  1985.  This deterioration reflects a
worsening of the external current account deficit from CFAP 4 billion in
1984 to CFAF 53 billion in 1985, and an estimated CFAP 40 billion in 1986.
16.       The Government is committed to resume debt service payments and
has worked to reconstruct its debt records, settle multilateral arrears,
and start  to repay arrears and current debt-service obligations.   The
reconstructed records show US$136 million in outstanding and disbursed
debts at end-1985, i.e., a debt-to-GDP ratio of 21%--one of the lowest in
Africa--and the debt service of US$7.8 million implies a debt-service ratio
of 14%. Despite an estimated loss of CFAF 520 million (US$1.5 million) in
cotton revenues, the resources of the Debt Amortization Fund (CAM), of
which about one-third derived in 1985 from COTONTCHAD's cotton production
and exports, are estimated to have increased from CFAP 1.3 billion (US$3.7
million) in 1985 to over CFAF 1.8 billion (US$5.2 million) in 1986, thanks
to new tax measures on imports and higher tax on other goods such as beer
and cigarettes. However, since this increase will permit Chad to cover
only two-thirds of its estimated 1986 debt service, the Government intends
to seek rescheduling for its debt to the level of CAA's available
resources.
Government Objectives for Development
17.       Since 1984, production in the formal sector has been supported by
numerous aid agencies (including many non governmental organizations -
NGOs).  Long-term perspectives have, therefore, been neglected and the
ministries have had difficulties in controlling or coordinating their
operations--particularly  in  agriculture.   However,   relative  political
stability and improved climatic conditions led Chad to move from ad hoc
emergency operations to longer term structural development.   With UNDP
assistance, the Government prepared the Interim Development Plan (1986-88)
presented to donors at a UNDP-sponsored Round Table Conference in December
1985.  The  Plan's  main  objectives  are  to  (a)  achieve national food
security;  (b)  resettle  populations  displaced  by  the  drought;  (c)
reconstitute the livestock herd; (d) improve rural water supply and combat
desertification; (e) rehabilitate the transport system; (f) rebuild the
industrial sector and exploit the country's petroleum resources; (g)
intensify and diversify non-cotton exports; Ch) rehabilitate commercial and
financial structures; and (i) provide basic health care. The Government
intends to reach these objectives by maintaining liberal policies for the
rural sector, centered on limited public sector intervention, restricted
growth of the civil service, and promotion of private, mostly small-scale
autofinancing and traditionally rooted initiatives. Producer prices are
uncontrolled and, apart from cotton, farm inputs are unsubsidized (subsi-
dies for cotton production will be eliminated by 1988).
18.       The Interim Plan outlines nearly  200 projects which require
further study. The Government is now working with the donors to define
appropriate sector strategies and to aggregate these projects under a



-6-
realistic public investment program which will take Into account Chad's
financial constraints and limited administrative capacity. The first draft
of a public investment program for 1987 has been prepared with the help of
the World Bank and other donors.  At the 1985 Round Table Conference, the
donor community pledged to assist the Government in building its capacity
for  development  planning  and  investment  programming.    The  Bank's
lnvolvement in helping to focus and coordinate actions into realistic
priority projects and programs will be particularly important during the
transition toward an orderly long-term development strategy.
PART II. WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD
External Assistance and IDA Operations
19.       Before the civil war, Chad received a significant amount of
external assistance. From 1971 to 1975, aid disbursements averaged US$57
million per annum, and the yearly total rose from about US$11 per capita to
over US$20 during the five-year period.  About 30% of this aid was for
technical assistance and 80X vas grant aid.  Although the absolute annual
amount of grant aid more than doubled during this period, the share of
grants fell from 86% in 1972 to 77% in 1975 as a result of increased
borrowing. Nevertheless, Chad's external indebtedness has remained fairly
low and on favorable terms. By the end of 1975, IDA lending amounted to
about 20% of Chad's borrowing from official sources.
20.       Since 1968, Chad has received 15 IDA credits totaling US$113.5
million: seven (amounting to US$21.7 million) have been fully disbursed or
cancelled; four (US$37.7 million) are still disbursing; two (US$19.1
million)  were   cancelled  before becoming  effective  due to civil war
disruption; and two (US$35 million) have recently been signed. Of the 13
operations, seven were for agricultural or rural development, three for
education, and three for highways. All Bank Group operations in Chad were
officially suspended in July 1979 because of accumulated arrears on IDA
credits, at a time when escalating hostilities had already halted project
activities and led to considerable damage to project assets. Most official
donors and NGOs withdrew from Chad during the war, although many returned
in 1982 and 1983. The status of the present Bank Group operations in Chad
Is given in Annex II.
21.       Of the seven IDA agriculture/rural development projects, six were
financed between 1960 and 1979: one in livestock development; two in
medium-scale irrigated crop production; one as a drought relief effort; and
two in small-scale rural development. The seventh is the Emergency Cotton
Sector Program approved in FY86.  Hitherto, the focus for crops was on
increasing food production, and, for livestock, on health services and
marketing.   The  six  earlier projects  faced  a series of planning  and
implementation problems.   Only two were completed but without reaching
their full objectives.    In May 1985, the Third Education Project was
reactivated and the four remaining agricultural projects were consolidated



-7-
into two (Satlgui-Deresia Irrigation Project (Cr. 489-CD) and Rural
Projects Fund (Cr. 664-CD)). The formr lnvolves rice production under
gravity-fed irrigation, and the latter involves development of small-scale
irrigation plots and construction of rural water points, feeder roads, and
village stores in specific locations.
22.       Disbursements on these redesigned projects resumed in September
1984, when Chad made its first payment on a plan to settle US$1.9 million
in IDA arrears.  The two agricultural projects  that were resumed are
progressing satisfactorily: under the first, about 1,000 ha of irrigated
rice were cultivated in 1986; and the four sub-components of the second are
active. By May 1985, the arrears situation was settled, paving the way for
new IDA lending.
23.       Since 1983, the donor community has contributed an average of
US$118 million per annum, 90Z of it as grant aid. On average, more than
half of this amount has been for emergency assistance, including large
amounts of food aid; US$11 million for budget support (mostly from France
and the U.S.A.) and US$45 million for project-related development
assistance, including Chad's entire development budget.  The large number
of donor and NGO activities after the civil war has accentuated the need
for better aid coordination--an issue raised at the Round Table Conference
in December 1985.  At that time, the Bank agreed to take the lead in
coordinating donor assistance for cotton, transport and petroleum, and FAO
for agriculture and rural development.
Relations with the IHF
24.       In September  1985. Chad purchased SDR 7.0 million under the
compensatory financing facility following a merchandise export shortfall
largely due to the drought that adversely affected the 1983-84 cotton
production.   In  1986, Fund missions  conducted Article  IV consultation
discussions with the Government and began discussions on a possible
Fund-supported adjustment program. The IMF Is considering the possibility
of assisting Chad with Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) financing.
Bank Group Strategy and Future Operations
25.       The Bank's  current  country  assistance  strategy  supports  the
objectives of Chad's Interim Development Plan and focuses on stimulating
economic development, particularly in the agriculture and transportation
sectors. The strategy reflects the Government's priority program and
includes actions to: (a) achieve sustainable national food security; (b)
overcome the cotton crisis; (c) -rehabilitate and Improve essential
infrastructure, especially the road network; (d) diversify production,
especially by developing alternative cash crops, increasing offtake in the
livestock sector and exploiting oil resources; and (e) strengthen
administrative, economic management and policy analysis capabilities
through institution building. These goals are being pursued through policy
dialogue, lending, and economic and sector work in the transport,
agriculture, petroleum, and education sectors.



-8-
26.       IDA signed emergency credits for a Cotton Sector Program and a
Highways Maintenance Project in early FY87. A petroleum project and an
education project are being prepared. These programs are briefly described
below. In addition, the Bank, in collaboration with FAO, has been asked to
help define strategies and to coordinate assistance for accelerating rural
development. This is the basic objective of the proposed project, which is
presented in Part IV. Future IDA projects being prepared for the rural
sector include a Livestock Development Project, a Rural Development Fund
Project, an Agriculture Sector Project, and a supplemental credit for the
Cotton Sector Program.
27.       The Emergency Cotton Sector Program (Cr. 1716-CD). The program,
which constitutes the Bank Group's first direct involvement in Chad's
cotton sector, will, through its first set of reforms, deepen knowledge of
the sector and examine possibilities for reorganization and diversification
under a second phase. The total cost of the Emergency Program, net of
taxes  and duties, is about US$47.4 million.   The credit will permit
COTONTCHAD to continue operations during a two-year transitional period.
The program aims at (a) financing COTONTCHAD's inputs; (b) improving
COTONTCHAD's management and financial control through external audits,
provision of technical assistance, training and studies to help prepare a
medium-term restructuring/diversification program; and (c) supporting the
operation and reorganization of key institutions in the cotton sector,
particularly  extension  services  and  research  activities.   The  timely
implementation :f the agreed cost reduction actions and management
improvement measures, in conjunction with financial assistance from the
cooperating donors, is expected to coincide with a steady improvement in
the world market and to gradually make COTONTCHAD's operations profitable
again. A supplemental credit to the Cotton Program utilizing resources
from the Bank's Special Facility for Africa is being prepared for FY88.
28.       The Road Transport Program.  As part of a five-year comprehensive
transport program, the Bank will coordinate donor efforts to (a)
rehabilitate roads and eliminate key bottlenecks in the network; (b) start
routine and periodic road maintenance, to be progressively financed from
domestic resources; (c) help finance maintenance operations over an
extended period; (d) assist in establishing an efficient, competitive
transport industry; and (e) strengthen the Government's institutional
capacity for planning, maintenance, and supervision in the transport
sector.  The Emergency Highway Maintenance Project  (Cr.  1728-CD) will
support this program and complement and coordinate efforts undertaken by
other donors.
29.       The Petroleum Development Program.  Following a meeting held in
Paris in July 1986 between the Chadian Government, the Bank and the oil
companies, the Bank is preparing a project consisting of wells in Sedigui,
a pipeline to link them to N'Djamena, a micro-refinery and modifications to
the power stations in N'Djamena and other major cities.  The proposed
petroleum project would require significant cofinancing, partnerships with
private enterprises and technical assistance to develop Government's
management of the sector.
_         .              ;~~~~~~~~3



-9-
30.       The Education/Training Sector Program.  The program's objectives
are to: (a) mount a training scheme (probably with UNDP financing) that
would increase efficiency in the Ministry of Education and, possibly. the
Human Resources Division of the Ministry of Planning; (b) provide
operational training in sectors identified as having top priority for the
reconstruction of the country; and (c) prepare, on the basis of sector work
to be conducted in FY87, a project to restore the basic education system
and develop flexible training formulas in order to respond speedily to
emerging employment needs, especially in the productive sectors.
PART III. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
31.       Agriculture  dominates  the  country's  economy,  providing  a
livelihood for about 85X of its population. The performance of the sector
has been severely affected by civil war and by the ensuing degradation of
infrastructure and services, and has been further aggravated by drought and
the collapse in world prices for cotton, the main export crop. Planning
and technical services, infrastructure and project implementation capacity
particularly  suffered.   The  Government  is  committed  to  reverse  this
situation and to realize the potentia1 for increasing production in the
medium- to long-term.
A.  Agricultural Production
32.       The main agricultural products include cotton, food staples, and
livestock. Cotton is produced in the tropical Sudanian zone and, apart
from cattle, is the only significant export. There is a large potential to
increase production, but due to depressed prices and the risks involved in
concentrating on a single export crop, Government policy is to limit annual
cotton production to about 100,000 tons in the medium-term. The principal
food staples are millet, sorghum and cassava which are cultivated in the
semi-arid areas and account for two-thirds of the diet.  In the higher
rainfall areas, along rivers and near Lake Chad, maize, wheat, rice,
groundnuts, vegetables and fruit are also grown, and there is some sugar
cane and tobacco cultivation in the South.  Yields of food crops are
generally low and unreliable because of the absence of improved varieties
and the impact of periodic droughts.   Fertilizers and crop protection
chemicals  are  mainly  applied  to  cotton  and  sugar  cane.   Recession
production of staple crops on the main rivers is a traditional practice and
the main potential for irrigation is from perennial rivers and from wadis
(natural depressions in the land which develop shallow sub-terranean water
storage). Total potential for irrigation is estimated at as much as 1
million ha but, at present, only about 10,000 ha are effectively irrigated,
mainly for rice production. It is important to ensure optimum cultivation
so as to preserve the fragile status of soils in the semi-arid areas in the
north of the Sahelian zone. Some progress has been made recently in
rehabilitating existing irrigation schemes, and there is also scope for
further rehabilitation and expansion in other areas. Furthermore, studies



- 10 -
are needed to review the economic feasibility for expanding rice production
and to investigate opportunities for improving productivity of staple crops
and diversifying cash crop production.
33.       There  is  significant  scope  for  improving  production  of
traditional crops, first by slmple actions to improve cultural techniques
(seed selection, timing, plant density, etc.) and to minimize losses by
improving storage and, second, by selecting and distributing improved seed
varieties  and  introducing modern  inputs.  The  proposed  project  would
activate these developments through actions for training, extension,
applied research and seed production. Such actions would need to define
the most appropriate channels for supplying agricultural inputs to
smallholders. Similarly, as there are no formal channels for rural credit,
it is important to assess the demand for, and relative importance of,
credit for developing the rural sector. These requirements would be met
under the project through sub-sector studies.
34.       Livestock production is important in Chad and the country has
major fodder resources  in good rainfall years.   In  spite of several
disruptions (civil war, a Rinderpest outbreak in 1983, the drought in
1984), there remains 4 million head of cattle, 4 million goats and sheep
and 0.9 million camels, horses and donkeys.   Most are in herds which
migrate seasonally between the Sahelian and Sudanian pastoral zones in Chad
and neighboring countries. Sedentary livestock raising, including animals
for traction, is concentrated in the Sudanian zone.
35.       Livestock development is promising for sector growth.  Not only
is the country self-sufficient in meat, but there are export opportunities
within the region (especially to Nigeria). Besides making an Important
contribution to increased export earnings (which are estimated at US$33
million for I984), livestock could contribute substantially to increasing
the overall efficiency of crop production: there is still considerable
scope for expanding the use of animal traction and other forms of
integration with agriculture.  However, there are no reliable estimates of
annual rates of offtake.  Furthermore, sales are generally made "on the
hoof" between owners and butchers or traders, and no production monitoring
is done.  The proposed project would include studies to clarify this
situation and to provide information for the preparation of a livestock
project.
36.       The forestry sub-sector is important for supplying practically
all household energy needs in the form of fuelvood and charcoal. Although
there is evidence of severe degradation of forest resources, the Government
has no defined policies for forest development or resource conservation.
Studies and trials are needed to assess the situation and make appropriate
recommendations, demonstrate soil conservation techniques and establish
tree nurseries. The proposed project would focus on this issue.



- 11 -
Past Performance and Food Situation
37.       There are no reliable data concerning agricultural production
(except cotton, see Part II) for the last ten years, and all records and
information services were destroyed in the civil war. The disruption of
economic and commercial activities throughout the country affected the
fragile food balance situation, and the succeeding drought caused serious
food deficits.   Support  from emergency  assistance,  and  a better  than
average rainy season in 1985 over much of the country, resulted in normal
crop production. The recent threat of infestation by locusts has abated
and the 1986 harvest was good. Nonetheless, Chad's food security position
is fragile.  Except in the drought years, self-sufficiency has generally
been realized by cereals supplemented with vegetables, pulses and livestock
products. In the northern Sahel and Saharan zones, livestock products are
generally more important than cereals as nutrient sources.
B. Support to the Agriculture Sector
Rural Development Institutions
38.       There are two principal ministries involved in rural development:
(a) Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR); and (b) Livestock and Water
Development (MEHP) (para 45). In addition, the Ministry of Tourism and
Environmental Protection (MTE) is charged with resource conservation and
the  Ministry  for  Food  Security  and  Displaced  People  coordinates
resettlement and the procurement and distribution of food supplies
(including food aid). The headquarters of all ministries are in N'Djamena
and the MADR and MEHP operate through administrative department centers in
the Sudanian and Sahelian zones-although these are stili very weak. The
National Office for Rural Development (ONDR) is a parastatal organization
attached to MADR, responsible for providing services, including free
training and extension advice, in the two zones. Hitherto, its actions
have concentrated in the South; however, in the wake of the cotton crisis,
redirection of activities has commenced, and actions under the proposed
project would help to consolidate it. The National Office for Village and
Pastoral Water (ONHPV) is a parastatal organization under MEHP in charge of
coordinating and supervising the planning, rehabilitation and construction
of water points.
39.       All of these institutions ceased to operate during the civil war,
and  their  facilities  are  largely  destroyed  or  dilapidated.   The
departments heads are for the most part competent but young; however, the
numbers and qualifications of departmental personnel are inadequate and
there are no coherent training programs. There is a dearth of funds, both
for refurbishing buildings and facilities and for operating expenses.
Consequently, the ministries have been reduced to rudimentary operations.
This is epitomized by the MADR, which is unable to control or supervise the
plethora of agricultural development actions which arose from the emergency
situation and which lack a coherent policy framework, operational



- 12 -
strategies and administrative coordination.   This situation has arisen
despite active assistance by the donor community since 1983, particularly
PAC, CCCE, FED, UNDP and FAO, whose efforts have generally involved
small-scale, fragmented developments which are generally localized and lack
coordination. Despite this rudimentary status, the existence of separate
ministries for crop and livestock production and their constituent services
are considered appropriate for coordinating Chad's immediate development
needs.   Studies  under  the  proposed  project  would  consider  possible
reorganization of the ministries for long-term development needs.
40.       As recommended by IDA, the Interministerial Office for Studies
and Planning (BIEP) was created in 1984 under MADR to coordinate the
planning of rural development in the ministries concerned and, thereby, to
accelerate Chad's redevelopment. BIEP has a competent Chadian director and
a staff of eight Chadian planning officers, assisted by five technical
assistance specialists. This team works with the different ministries and
aid agencies to focus assistance on priority projects.  Until now, its
operations focused mainly on day-to-day operations in response to ad hoc
demand. The project would reinforce BIEP's planning and monitoring role,
so as to Improve coordination and implementation of projects. To increase
its effectiveness, the Government proposes to transfer shortly BIEP to the
Planning Ministry attached to the Office of the President (HDPCP).
41.       In addition to its role for coordinating national planning, the
HrDPCP controls the Management Unit (MU) for the IDA-financed Rural Projects
Fund (RPF) Project whose actions involve several of the rural development
ministries.  The MU operates well and currently consists of a competent
administrator, an accountant (United Nations volunteer), an accounts clerk,
and support staff. With additional resources, the MU would be capable of
fulfilling all administrative aspects for the proposed project (para 70).
C. Agriculture Sector Issues and Development Strategy
42.       Realization  of  the  potential  for  expanding  agricultural
production is affected by diverse constraints:
1.   Institutional Operations.  The dislocation and neglect  provoked
by the civil war have imposed serious constraints on the
operational capabilities of key departments in the rural
development  ministries.   This  affects  services  for  applied
research, seeds production, training and extension, rural
engineering and livestock production, as well as development
coordination. Past research has not focused on Chad's special
needs: food crops and improved seeds production have been
neglected; training and extension are not oriented to farmers'
needs; and approaches for rural constructions, e.g., small dams
and simple irrigation structures, are uncoordinated.  Although
the basic requirements for revitalizing these services are well
understood, detailed review of current operations is required in
order to develop precise plans for institutional development.



- 13 -
Furthermore,   the  significant--although  localized--assistance
provided by numerous NGOs and the potential for involving local
communities in designing and implementing small-scale projects
need to be properly directed to ensure optimum impact. Actions
proposed under the project for institution development and
training, supported by highly experienced technical assistance
personnel and special studies, would help to restore government
services  and  ensure  coordinated   strategies  for  priority
developments In the rural sector.
2.   Rehabilitation of Productive Facilities.  Damage  and  neglect to
productive facilities are blocking economic recovery in the rural
sector. Funds for rehabilitating buildings, renewing equipment
and restarting operations, for both public sector enterprises and
rural development services, would help to reverse this situation.
3.   Technical Developments.  Chad's variable climate is a  constraint
to reliable crop production and food security, and to the supply
of hygienic water in rural areas.  These constraints could be
tackled by developing and extending simple irrigation techniques
and ensuring the maintenance of existing modern water points.
4.   Sector Planning.  Although Chad's geographic isolation aggravates
economic and marketing problems, they can be countered by
improving existing crop production efficiency and identifying and
developing   opportunities  for  diversification  by   exploiting
neglected  sub-sectors,  e.g.,  livestock   and   forestry,   and
providing the  necessary  inducements,  e.g.,  credit.   However,
rational diversification is impossible in the absence of data and
studies  relating  to  the  present  situation.   Similarly,  the
emphasis on fragmented emergency actions, which characterizes the
current national recovery process, obscures the definition of
long-term policies and development strategies. These constraints
could be countered by strategic sector planning linked to
identification and demonstration of technical and organizational
approaches for improving crop and livestock productivity.
Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
43.       The agriculture sector is the keystone to Chad's economic growth.
However,  the  Government's  long term  objectives,  and  consequently  its
strategy, have not yet been clearly formulated. Although the three-year
Interim Development Plan (1986-88) identifies the main issues and
establishes the objectives for government policies and the underlying
strategy, the resulting actions are likely to constitute only elements of a
response  to  resolving  the  current  situation.   Because  of  its  broad
experience in institution development, planning and policy formulation, the
Bank is uniquely placed to help formulate strategies and to provide a
cohereut framework for rural development programs and for coordinating the



- 14 -
activities of different donors. The proposed project would focus on these
key issues and provide the vehicle for active collaboration with PAO in its
coordinating role for agriculture and rural development.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Origin and Objectives
44.       The project was identified in November 1985 as part of an IDA
package of emergency actions (focused on the agriculture and transportation
sectors) for rehabilitating the economy; it was prepared with the
assistance of FAO/CP and appraised in March 1986. An advance of US$0.5
million equivalent under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was granted
in August 1986 to finance the cost of essential preparation activities.
Negotiations  were  held  in  Chad  from December  10  to  12,  1986.   The
Government delegation was led by His Excellency Soumalla Nahamat, Minister
of Planning attached to the Office of the President. There is no separate
Staff Appraisal Report.  The project file contains a series of detailed
background working papers, agreed terms of reference for resident experts,
consultants and studies, and the technical and organizational proposals for
the pilot actions under the project (list in Annex VII). A supplementary
Project Data Sheet is given in Annex III.
45.       The project was designed on the basis of an initial assessment of
urgent rehabilitation needs. However, in view of the constantly changing
situation in Chad and the fact that international aid is not yet
coordinated, project design has been kept flexible. Any need to adjust the
proposed components would be decided at biannual review meetings with the
Association and based on proposals contained in the project's progress
reports. The supervision of the project would, therefore, require above
average  resources.   The  project  would  have  two  distinct  objectives:
restoring the development of the agriculture sector and establishing the
basis for expansion through future projects.   First,  it would improve
coordination   through   the   development   of   key   rural   institutions
(organization charts in Annex IV)  and the emergency rehabilitation of
productive facilities in the rural sector. Second, for the longer term, it
would enhance the Government's ability to guide agricultural planning and
development by implementing pilot actions to establish optimum approaches
in rural development and by carrying out key sub-sector studies.
46.       To attain these objectives, the project would consist of the
following components, to be implemented over a three-year period:
1.   Institution  development  would  include  provision  of  resident
experts, consulting services, training, vehicles and equipment
for reactivating and improving the operations of key services in
the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR), and the



- 15 -
Ministry of Livestock and Water Development (HEaP), as well as
the Planning Bureau (BIEP), and the Rural Projects Fund
Management Unit (MU).
2.   Emergency rehabilitation of productive facilities  would  involve
re-establishlig and developing immediately-productive facilities
in the rural sector, both for public sector enterprises (e.g.,
the Farcha Laboratory for Livestock Vaccine Production and
Veterinary and Zoological Research, the Farcha Abattoir, seed
farms, and farm implement manufacture) and for key rural
development services (e.g.. research, trailning, extension and
rural construction).
3.   Pilot  actions  for   technical   developments  would   focus  on
testing and demonstrating optimum organization and technologies
for   expanding  food  crop   production   and   water   resource
maintenance.
4.   Sector  planning  would  include  the  re-establishment  of  data
collectioni services and key sub-sector studies, focusing on (a)
conmodities with high potential for economic development; (b)
livestock production, processing and marketing; (c) forest
production and resource conservation; and (d) rural credit
analysis.
B.  Detailed Features
1.   Institution Development (US$6.0 million, including US$0.3 million
for PPF refinancing)
47.       To help alleviate the serious constraints affecting the operation
of key rural development services, the project would provide support and
training for defining policies and strategies, for reorganizing key
ministry departments and for ensuring proper coordination of operations.
To this effect, the project would include seven resident experts (2-1/2
years each) and several specialist consultants-together with the necessary
vehicles, equipment, facilities and operating costs-to be assigned to the
following entities:
(a)  in  MADR, four  resident  experts  in  the  fields  of  applied
agricultural   research   administration,   seeds   production,
agricultural training, and extension would review current
policies and operations and help devise and initiate strategies
through the relevant departments for the phased improvement of
crop production over the medium- and long-term and corresponding
proposals for reorganizing MADR services;
(b)  in MEHP, one resident livestock production economist would  focus
on defining policies and strategies aimed at increasing
productivity and economic development in the livestock sector.



- 16 -
and on devising programs for accelerating livestock development
and corresponding proposals for reorganizing MEHP services;
(c) in BIEP, two resident experts would be provided: a rural
development specialist to devise procedures for accelerating the
design and initiation of priority projects for meeting production
objectives and to monitor implementation progress; and a
financial analyst to introduce financial planning procedures for
new projects and to prepare budget, financial analysis and audit
procedures for ongoing projects;
(d) in MU, consultants would assist, during periodic visits, in the
preparation and implementation of the Unit's work program.
48.       The expertise required for the resident posts is an essential
addition to the human resources already in place. The experts would work
directly with the department heads who are already in post. Detailed terms
of reference for the work of experts, designed to focus on areas not
covered by other technical assistance personnel, have been agreed with the
Government and were reaffirmed at negotiations. Recruitment would be the
responsibility of a sole consulting firm which would also provide technical
and logistical back-up from its headquarters office and periodic
supervision of the resident experts by a senior director.  One of the
experts in Chad would be designated as team leader on behalf of the firm.
Supervision would be ensured through quarterly progress reports (para 69)
produced  for  the Government by  each  expert.  These reports would be
scrutinized by frequent IDA missions. Government would recruit experts,
following Bank procedures, and a contract satisfactory to IDA would be
signed between the Government and a reputable consulting firm as a
condition of credit effectiveness. The contract would include a schedule
for the appointment of consultants who will most likely commence work in
Chad in June 1987. Flexibility in the appointments would be ensured by
providing contingency funds to finance additional expertise in line with
changing circumstances.
49.       Organization.  Although the present organization of MADR and NEH
is  satisfactory  for  immediate  operations.  some  reorganization  and
rationalization are desirable for improving efficiency and reducing
government    expenditures.     However,    decisions    on    institutional
reorganization can only be sensibly taken once new policies, strategies and
development plans have been devised. Meanwhile, there is an urgent need to
improve the operating efficiency of the key departments and to upgrade the
capacity of the existing personnel to enable them to meet immediate
development objectives. Therefore, as a first priority upon arrival, each
resident  expert  would  prepare  plans  for  medium-term  organizational
improvements in the department of assignment and an associated training
program. A consultant specialist in institution building vould be hired to
coordinate the departmental plans into a coherent, medium-term plan for
reorganizing rural development institutions. These plans would be reviewed
annually and amended if necessary to reflect changing circumstances or
decisions made in the context of sector studies.



- 17 
50.       Training.  A master plan for the training of staff in the rural
development ministries (outlined in the Working Papers) was reviewed during
negotiations and will be further elaborated by individual experts upon
their  arrival.   Thus,  each  resident  expert would  be responsible  for
elaborating training programs for key national staff in his department.
Training programs, which would commence shortly after the arrival of each
resident expert and continue for the duration of the project, would focus
on developing training related to the planning, operation and coordination
of  technical  services.   Specific  provisions  under  the project would
include: (a) in-service training for staff at all levels, provided on a
continual basis by each resident expert, as well as specific in-country
courses (e.g., training for trainers, organization of extension services,
financial planning); (b) international training for technicians and
managers, involving courses with similar personnel and visits to similar
operations in other countries; and (c) fellowships for professional
training to be completed either during this or subsequent projects, or
through assistance from other aid agencies. All training programs would be
designed with the central objective of reducing as soon as possible the
dependence on resident experts. An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that individual experts would present training programs for their
departments within three months of their arrival and that comprehensive and
coordinated plans for medium-term organization and associated training
programs would be submitted to IDA within six months of the arrival of the
resident  experts.   The Director  of  the MU would be  responsible  for
coordinating the project's training program, for monitoring its progress,
and for providing specific details in quarterly progress reports.
2.   Emergency Rehabilitation (US$3.0 million)
51.       Most public services and commercial businesses ceased operations
during the civil war, and the lack of financial resources and commercial
servicing facilities  is  affecting  the rehabilitation  of property and
equipment of commercial and technical organizations associated with MADR
and  MEHP.   Although  bilateral  assistance  is  being  provided  for
rehabilitating a few offices in key ministries and government organiza-
tions, these programs are generally not assisting smaller organizations
which before 1979 were providing valuable support services for the agricul-
ture and livestock sectors. Similarly, for the foreseeable future, there
is no capacity for the private sector or foreign investors to assume these
responsibilities.  Therefore,  the project would provide assistance for
emergency rehabilitation for restoring immediate operations of the Parcha
Laboratory (paras 52 and 53), the Parcha Abattoir (para 54) and other
public sector enterprises (paras 56 and 57) but also for initial restora-
tion of key facilities of government rural development services (para 58).
For the public sector enterprises, the proposed project would provide for
the first phase rehabilitation of buildings and the replacement of worn out
equipment, initial operating expenses and approximately six man-months of
consultancy services for the design and supervision of, inter alia, the
vaccine laboratory, abattoir, seed production farms, and farm implement
factory.



- 18 -
52.       Farcha Laboratory (US$0.6 million).  The Farcha Laboratory for
Livestock Vaccine Productlon and Veterinary and Zoological Research is
attached to MEHP.  Before 1979, it operated commercially and played an
important role in international vaccination campaigns to eradicate
livestock diseases, both by preparation and distribution of vaccines and by
analytical work in livesto.ck diseases and pastures (in liaison with the
International Center for Agricultural Research in Arid Zones - ICARDA).
Although the laboratory structure remains, it has since then fallen into
disrepair, its larger equipment is worn out, and the persistent shortage of
operating funds has drastically reduced analysis work and vaccine
production and has halted operations of the herbarium and library.
Nonetheless, existing Chadian management is good, a highly motivated staff
team still exists and, given the necessary funds, would be capable of
restoring operations to their previous level.
53.       Project funds include operating and maintenance costs and would
complement assistance from FAC and FED also totalling US$0.6 million
equivalent and for which work will commence in early 1987. Project funds
would provide for (a) a limited engineering study and construction of
protection works against erosion by river action adjacent to the laboratory
site, and rehabilitation of the buildings and services; and (b) initial
equipment renewal, restoration of the herbarium, library services and the
laboratory's   activities   for   diffusing   information   to   affiliated
organizations, and operating expenditures for two years on a declining
scale.  This work is expected to be completed during  1987 and it is
anticipated that after two years the proceeds from sales and fees would
cover the laboratory's operating costs.  This site has also been designated
for the development of a soil and water resources analysis laboratory, in
support of the planning for pilot developments for small-scale irrigation
and wadi sites (para 56(c)).
54.       The Farcha Abattoir (US$0.1 million), also attached to MEHP,  was
operated as a commercial enterprise until 1979, but since then its
operations have been reduced and It has fallen into disrepair due to lack
of government funds for rehabilitation. The sub-sector study of livestock
marketing and processing to be funded under the project would include
detailed review of abattoir requirements and management. The resulting
proposals might be financed through a livestock project. However, in the
meantime, funds under the proposed project would complement ongoing
assistance from FAC/CCCE (totalling US$0.8 million equivalent). Project
funds would complete financing for structural rehabilitation work
(estimated at US$0.1 million equivalent), to enable the abattoir to restore
its operations to pre-1979 levels.
55.       Emergency  rehabilitation  assistance  for  the  laboratory  and
abattoir would be executed in direct collaboration with the investments
being financed by FED, FAC and CCCE.   Collaboration would be ensured
through formal discussion between the Director of MU, the managers of these
facilities and the aid agencies, for agreeing and approving plans and
budgets, and through the final approval process of the investment committee
(para 57).



- 19 -
56.       Other Emergency Rehabilitation Actions  (US$2.3 million).   For
other emergency investments, detailed proposals are not yet available.
Types  of  investments  that  would  be  considered  include:  (a)  the
rehabilitation of centers for the multiplication of food crop seeds for the
Sahelian zone, selected by MADR's research service, would include
production, treatment/storage and cash sale to farmers; (b) the design,
manufacture and cash sale of tools, implements and equipment for both hand
use and oxen, for the cultivation and processing of crops or transportation
of goods; and (c) the development of small-scale facilities for processing
and marketing cereals, vegetables, spices, fruit, wood and fish products.
Such actions would be defined and prepared with the assistance of
consultants at an early stage during project implementation. To qualify
for emergency rehabilitation funds, proposals relating to public sector
enterprises would have to:
(i) relate directly to the agriculture sector;
(ii) include physical, financial and organizational details; and
(iii)  have competent management and clearly demonstrable financial
and economic impact within 12 months of funding approval.
57.       The MU would be responsible for periodically inviting investment
proposals from representatives of the various ministries concerned with
rural development at central and regional levels. The MU would evaluate
and prioritize proposals in line with the above criteria for approval by an
investment committee composed of the Director General and the Director of
Planning of MDPCP and the Director of BIEP. The MU Director would be the
secretary to the committee. Following approval, the MU would monitor the
implementation of each investment. Investments estimated to cost more than
Us$0.1 million equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior approval. Other
approved investments would be checked during Bank supervision missions and
examined in detail during biannual project review meetings between the
Government and IDA (para 69). Assurances on the above were obtained at
negotiations.
58.       Emergency  rehabilitation  funds  would  further  be  used  to
rehabilitate Government's key rural development services.   These funds
would cover initial rebuilding work and re-equipping for, inter alia: (a) a
preliminary restoration of activities at a key research station (e.g.,
Gassi) and experimental centers (e.g., Bokoro, Am Dam, or Am Timan) in the
Sahelian zone; (b) pilot actions for technical training and extension
operations in two priority departments, e.g., Chari/Baguirmi in the
Sahelian Zone and Moyen Chari in the Sudanian zone; and (c) demonstration
of sfimple water control measures (e.g., earth dams in Ouaddi and communal
construction of access roads to small-scale  irrigation sites).   These
investments would be identified in PY1 as a result of the planning work of
the resident experts. Detailed proposals, decided on the basis of the
above criteria and production priorities contained in the Government's
Interim Plan for NADR and MENW, would be submitted to the investment
committee for approval before being incorporated into proposed work



- 20 -
programs for PY2 and PY3. The availabillty of such a flexible but closely
monitored funding source is crucial in the Chadian circumstances to enhance
the effectiveness of the resident experts and particularly to glve them an
opportunity for lnitiating action in immediato response to the potentials
and needs that they identify in the field. Because of the current weakness
of many of these services, all credit funding for government rural
development services under the project would be conditional on prior IDA
approval. An assurance on this aspect was obtained at negotiations.
3.   Pilot Actions (US$2.7 million)
59.       To  accelerate  technical  development  appropriate  to  Chad's
variable climatic conditions, the project would include a series of
selected pilot actions designed to evaluate existing operations, consider
Improved technologies and demonstrate optimum approaches for: (a) riverside
cultivation; (b) wadi cultivation; and (c) maintenance of rural water
points.   Detailed  proposals  have been  prepared for each pilot action
(detailed in Working Papers) and work should start within six months of
credit  signing.   Planning  and  implementation  services  would  be  the
responsibility of ONDR for pilot cultivation (sale of construction
materials, pumps, seeds and inputs, plus training, extension and marketing
advice) and ONHPV for water point maintenance. As with the ongoing small
irrigated   schemes   project,   the  MU  would   have   coordination   and
administrative responsibility for the pilot actions. The proposed project
would provide constructions, vehicles, equipment, consultant services (46
man-months), technical and organizational studies, and operating expenses
for these pilot actions. All of these actions would emphasize beneficiary
participation in the selection, financing, and maintenance of investments
and, as with the ongoing project, smallholders would pay annual fees to
cover  equipment  purchase  and  operating  costs.   These  fees  would  be
collected and saved by the committee of each farmers group for payment to
the MU, private suppliers or ONHPV, as necessary.
(a)  Riverside Cultivation (US$0.5 million).  Project actions would
reactivate recession cropping on river banks and develop clear
procedures for the planning and equipment of small-scale
irrigation sites. The pilot irrigation component would be sited
in the PIC ("Perimetres Irrigues du Chari") project zone in
Guelendeng, about 200 km south of N'Djamena. By drawing on this
experience and others in Chad or ecologically similar situations
in neighboring countries, the proposed project actions would
complement and extend the existing operations by developing 25
separate pilot sites (already identified) whose size would range
from 3 to 15 ha of irrigated or semi-irrigated land. Each site
would be divided into individual plots and cultivated (in two
seasons) by a group of up to 15 siallholders working in
collaboration and pumping water from rivers or simple wells.
Production would focus on sorghum, rice, groundnuts, vegetables,
and fruit (depending on the season), and surplus produce would be
marketed by producer groups through local traders.



- 21 -
(b)  WadI  Cultivation  (US$0.8  million).   Project  actions  would
concererate on developing systems for optimizing production from
wadi satos while protecting the dolicate ecological balance.
Actions would focus on Moussoro in tho Kenom prefectute, a
priority area for resottlement situnted about 200 kmt north of
N'Djamens. Actions would include: (M) improving traditionnl
techniques for the construction of simple shallow wells and for
the irrigation of small plots; and (ii) establishing planning,
training and extension services for 6 wadis, covering about 60 ha
in totnl and involving some 250 smallholders who would be
organized into groups of up to 15 families.  Production would
focus on improving traditional crops (wheat,  millet,  sorghum,
groundnut,  vegetables  and  spices)   through  two  cultivation
seasons, using simple, manually operated irrigation techniques
from shallow wells.  The need to decide on the optimum human
population for each site and to coordinate crop and livestock
production would be key aspects of the initial site planning to
be done by existing ONDR personnel using short-term consultants
as necessary.
(c)  Soils and Water Laboratory (US$0.2 million). The soils and water
analysis laboratory, to be established under the project in
association with IRCT, would be important for improving planning
efficiency for this development work.
Cd)  Rural Water Point Maintenance Program (Us$1.2 million).  Project
actions would focus on the national coordination of rural water
point maintenance through the creation of a special division at
ONHPV. Based at a new store/workshop to be built in N'Djamena,
the new division would report to ONHPV's Technical Department.
Six existing geographical sub-divisions would be reorganized to
provide community-oriented services and two others would be
created in the South of the country (Moyen Chari and Moundou); in
addition, the project would finance the creation of pump
maintenance units to provide technical advice and spare parts for
the manual pumps on boreholes and some wells.  For this pilot
operation, a first unit would be establishctd at Moundou (110
pumps), with  a view  to  expanding  the  operatieon nationally.
Project actions would emphasize community responsibility for
water  point maintenance  through  the  aavelopment  of  training
facilities  (vehicles, equipment and perionnel) for ONHPV.  The
short-term consultants would help to develop and organize
maintenance programs, introduce systematic prospecting methods
for new water  points,  create  traininc  programs,  and  devise
procedures for recovery of maintenance co6:;s.
p.~~ 



. .n                   -22-
4. Sector Planning (US$3.1 million, including US$0.2 million for PPP
*  reflAnancing)
60.       To respond to the constraints imposed by the dearth of production
data  and, the ' lack  of  Insight  Into  the  potentials  for  diversifying
production Lu. the rural sector, the project would finance the following:
(a) two statistics specialists (plus logistical support) for two years to
assiet in data gathering on crop and livestock production (US$0.8 million);
(b) & forestry And rasource conservation specialist for two years to help
Aevel&p  sielf-finanicing  tree  nurseries  (for  firewood  and  fruit)  and
establish soil conservation demonstrations in vulnerable areas (US$0.5
million)"; and (c) associated 3tudies on sub-sectors with high potential for
economic development (US$1.8 million).
61.       Specialists.  The two statistics specialists would be assigned to
the e,irsting, but barely operational statistics services of MADR and MEHP.
The .statistieians wouild organize the surveys and develop and implement
simple systems for collecting, processing and interpreting key data and for
purchasing   ass-ociated   information  (satellite  imagery)  relating   to:
(a) crop production; and (b) livestock population trends and production.
Project funds would be used to improve existing facilities and to hire
addittonal survey personnel for the statistics services.  The forest and
resources conservation specialist would be assigned to the conservation
department of thi Ministry of Tourism and Environmental Protection. He
would work it, association with the forestry and conservation study at
establishing tres nurseries and at initiating soil conservation trials. As
with the resident experts for institution development, the terms of
reference for these specialists emphasize intensive training for existing,
but  largeLy isiperative,  counterpart  staff,  the development of routine
training ptira, and organizational improvements.
-Z.       S-tudies. - Four major sector studies would be carried out under
tie project to provide basic information and the insight needed to
elaborate a long-term development strategy for the rural sector.   The
priority studies to be initiated in PYI relate to:
Ca) crop production and diversification, involving analysis of the
existing situation and evaluation of the potential for: (i)
improving  output   from  traditional   crops   (e.g.,   sorghum,
groundnuts, dried vegetables, and spices); (ii) expanding rice
production; and (iii) developing industrial crops others than
cotton  fe.g.,  oil  palm  or  oil  seeds)  either  for  import
substitut'.on or for expanding exports;
. (b) ,lestock. production  and  marketing,  involving  technical  and
-7      xeconomc. -evaluation  of  the  potential  for:  (i)  raising  the
productivity from existing herds; and (ii) developing marketing
and processing opportunities to increase offtake, restore past
performance and exploit newT outlets;



- 23 -
Cc)  forest production and resource conservation, involving technical
and economic evaluation of the potential for national forest
development and the need and approach for soil and water
resources conservation, to make specific proposals for project
development and recommend procedures for planning and monitoring
the abstraction of irrigation water, e.g., by organizing a water
resources committee; and
(d) rural credit needs, involving analysis of the existing situation
regarding savings and credit, evaluation of potential demand, and
recommendations for meeting the credit requirements for small
farmers, livestock owners and fishermen, agricultural production
companies, agro-industries, and agricultural traders.
63.       The. study work would be coordinated by the Director of BIEP.
Terms of reference, detailed in the project Working Papers, have been
agreed with the Government and were reaffirmed at negotiations. The studies
would be initiated with PPF funds and results would be available by
mid-1987.
C. Project Costs and Financing
64.       Project Costs.  The total project cost, net of taxes and duties,
is estimated at US$17.6 million, including a foreign exchange component of
some US$13.1 million  (74%)  equivalent.   Cost  estimates  are based  on
December 1986 prices. Physical contingencies of 10% have been included on
all costs, apart from emergency rehabilitation actions, resident experts
and consultants, and price contingencies have been calculated on the basis
of 9% for local expenditures throughout and 6.8% (1987 and 1988), 7.0%
(1989), and 7.1%  (1990) for foreign expenditures.   Total contitgencies
amount to 19% of base costs or 16% of total project cost.
65.       Financing.  The project would be financed by an IDA credit of
US$17.4 million equivalent. This credit would finance 99% of project costs
net of taxes and duties, including 100% of foreign exchange costs and 95%
of local costs. The remainder, for local salaries and operating costs,
would be financed by the Government (CFAF 70 million, or US$0.2 million
equivalent). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government
would contribute these CFAF 70 million to project cost in quarterly
installments. The opening of a Project Account with an initial deposit of
CFAF 10 million would be a condition of credit effectiveness. As part of
its monitoring activities, BIEP would carry out a review of the financial
implications of ongoing projects, including their future impact on MADR and
MEKP's budgets when external financing is no longer available.
66.       During implementation, the incremental operating costs due to the
project would rise to about US$1.1 million in PY2 and decline to US$0.7
million in PY4. These costs would be largely financed through the proposed
credit. After credit closing, the continuing recurrent costs due to the
project (about US$0.3 million) would be covered by self-financing



- 24 -
operations or would be assumed by other projects. A national s:heme for
systematic cost recovery from farmer groups for irrigation facilities and
water points would be specified in the resource conservation study and
implemented by ONHPV under the supervision of the proposed water resources
committee. The Government has supported the principle of cost recovery for
collective equipment and, at negotiations, an assurance was obtained that
specific regulations and institutional arrangements would be enacted by
December 31, 1987, after consultation with IDA.
D.   Procurement and Disbursements
67.       Procurement.    Resident  experts  and  consultants   (Annex  V)
totalling about 36 man-years would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines.   Because of the emergency nature of the project  and the
importance for the resident experts to commence work urgently (and the
post-war scarcity of housing and vehicles in N'Djamena), procurement of
houses for the institution building component would be arranged either
directly by the selected consulting firm or through the UNDP Office of
Project Execution (UNDP/OPE). Apart from this, contracts of US$0.1 million
or more for imported vehicles and equipment, totalling about US$2.6
million, would be awarded through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Contracts between US$20,000 and US$100,000 equivalent for civil works,
amounting to a total of about US$1.7 million, would be procured following
existing Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures which operate under the
ongoing projects and are acceptable to the Bank.  For contracts under
US$20,000 (mainly for small equipment), direct procurement (on the basis of
at least three quotations) would be allowed up to a total of US$200,000.
Procurement arrangements are given on page 25.



- 25 -
AMOUNTS AND METHODS OF PROCUREMENT a/
(US$ million) b/
Items                            ICB       LCB       Other     Total
Civil Works                             -          1.7       -          1.7
(1.7)               (1.7)
Vehicles                                0.5        -         0.3  c/   0.8
(0.5)               (0.3)      (0.8)
Equipment (including spare parts)       2.1        -         1.6       3.7
(2.1)               (1.6) cl  (3.7)
Resident Experts                        -          -         3.6  d/   3.6
(3.6)     (3.6)
Studies, Training/Fellowships           -          -         4.8  d/   4.8
and Consultants                                           (4.8)     (4.8)
Local Personnel                         -          -         1.4        1.4
(1.2)     (1.2)
General Operating Costs                 -          -         1.1        1.1
(1.1)     (1.1)
Project Preparation Facility            -          -         0.5       0.5
(0.5)     (0.5)
Total Cost                           2.6        1.7      13.3      17.6
Total IDA Financed                          g    Zf 7 (13.1)    (17.4)
a/   Amounts in parentheses denote IDA contribution.
b/   Including contingencies.
cl   Contracts for vehicles and equipment below US$0.1 million would be
mwarded through prudent international shopping following Bank
guidelines.
d/   Resident experts, consultants and studies would be procured following
Bank guidelines.
68.       Disbursements.   The  IDA credit  of US$17.4 million would be
disbursed to cover 100% of the costs of civil works and construction
materials,  vehicles  and  equipment,  resident  experts,  consultants,
training, studies, and incremental operating costs, including incremental
local salaries on a declining basis (95% in FYI, 602 in PY2, and 30%
thereafter). Disbursement of emergency rehabilitation funds would follow
normal Bank procedures. All disbursements from the IDA project account



- 26 -
would be fully documented, except for operating costs and for contracts
valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent, for which certified statements of
expenditures would be used and the documentation retained by the MU for
inspection by supervision missions. The project implementation period would
be three years, but, to allow for possible delays, the credit is scheduled
to be disbursed over four and a half years. This period is reasonable
because:   (a) a consulting firm to provide resident experts has been
selected; and (b) the contracts for resident experts would be for 30
months, and for the sub-sector studies they would be for less than six
months. However, disbursement profiles for the Western Africa Region show
that technical assistance projects are disbursed on the average over a
seven and a half year period.  If credit disbursements were to extend
beyond the scheduled four and a half years to seven and a half years, the
total project cost would increase by about US$200,000 equivalent per year
and would be covered by adjusting the size and scope of investments for
emergency rehabilitation actions.
E.  Accounts, Audit and Reporting
69.       The MU would establish and maintain consolidated accounts for all
project expenditures. This would include a Special Account identifying
separately:   (a)   routine   project   operations;   and   (b)   emergency
rehabilitation operations. These accounts and supporting records would be
audited annually by auditors acceptable to IDA, and audit reports would be
submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each calendar
year. The Special Account and statements of expenditures would be the
subject of a separate statement from the auditor. Each service supported
under the project would produce quarterly progress reports on the physical
and financial performance of the project and on its institutional impact.
These reports would be consolidated into a single report by the MU for
submission to IDA and would present detailed analyses and recommendations
for discussions at the biannual review meetings. The content and form of
these reports, to be reviewed by IDA, were discussed at negotiations.
F.   Project Organization
70.       Each component would be managed by the departments directly
concerned, as indicated above, while overall project administration would
be assumed by the MU in the existing RFP Project. This Unit would be
strengthened by the appointment of the following local personnel: a Deputy
Director, an Accountant, and a Coordinator for the Emergency Rehabilitation
Fund with additional support staff. The new decree covers the creation of
a deputy director post, and recruitment for these posts is underway and
should be completed by May 1987. The MU would coordinate the annual work
programs and budgets for the project, based on the proposals for individual
components as prepared by the departments. This would include details of
specification, designs construction and equipment/spare parts procurement
for pilot actions and for investments under the energency rehabilitation
component. These programs and budgets would be sent by the Government to



- 27 -
IDA for information and comment before August 31 of each year, i.e., one
month before the start of each project year.  The MU would also be
responsible for administering all project funds and for the monitoring and
evaluation of MU project actions. To ensure flexibility for responding to
the changing situation in Chad, adjustments in project operations would be
decided through biannual progress reports which would be prepared by the MU
and reviewed during  IDA supervision missions.    Issuance of a decree
designating the NO to administer the project (together with provision of
sufficient office facilities) would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
71.       The sub-sector studies would be coordinated and supervised by the
Director of BIEP.   No particular organizational arrangements would be
required concerning the responsibilities of the resident experts working in
various technical services of MADR and NTE, as they would report directly
to the heads of these departments.  Precise administrative arrangements
between the MU and MADR, MM,F. MTE and BIEP regarding their respective
roles in project execution, between the MU and ONDR for extension services,
and between the MU and ONHPV for water point maintenance have already been
prepared and reviewed, and would be formalized not later than Nay 31, 1987.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
G.   Benefits and Risks
72.       The project would have both short- and long-term benefits.  In
the short-term, it would strengthen key rural development institutions and
rehabilitate immediately-productive facilities in the rural sector.
Concomitantly, improved planning capacity would result in the adoption of
policies,  strategies  and  operating  procedures  for  existing  rural
development organizations. For the medium- to long-term, it would indicate
directions for rationalizing the rural development ministries and for
specific action programs for future projects for financing by the Bank
Group and other agencies. Specific results expected from the project would
include a greatly improved statistical data base in the main agricultural
sub-sectors, training or retraining of key staff in MADR, MifF and MTE, and
the rehabilitation of key rural development facilities.
73.       There are two main risks which might prevent the project from
attaining its objectives. First, in spite of the successful efforts of the
Government to restore peace through its reconciliation policy, fighting
continues in the far north. The security situation in the areas vhere
project activities are planned is good and the Government is firmly
established. Second, the project's high dependency on the performance of
the technical assistance personnel has been minimized by establishing
precise terms of reference and recruiting procedures (i.e., contracting
with a single reputable consulting firm).  This risk would be further
reduced by providing frequent and close supervision during project
implementation.



- 28 -
PART V.  RECOMMENDATION
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposal.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
March   , 1987
Attachments



- 29 -
REPUBLIC O  CHAD                                                     ANNEX I
Pae  1of 2
ECONIIIC INDICArofS
6RSS NIESTIC PRODUCT                     19S5               1906 lost.) IINUAL RATE OF 6OWTH OF GOP 12. constant 1977 pricn)
.......-----      .....  _._...  ..... ............. .
US IlKn.     1                                1977-1982    1903-1904   1994-05    1915-86 (It.)
DP at lariat Prics                     33.0      100       751     IO
Current kAeomt Blance               -117.9       -19     -112       -15            -3.2         -b l         23.4         1.4
Exprts of Goas, IIF                   99.2       Ib       113       15
lmports of Gook, IFS                -293.2       -45     -315       -42
VALUE HDDED DY SECTOR                                                          0DVIINI FINANCE
Central  overmeot
I15               19b6 (tnt.)                                     CFAF  ie.          I2 of 6DP
USS Kin.     I    US NII.       I                                     -
1995    1996     1975      1995     1991
Agriculture                          279       44       330       44
Industry                             127       2D       150       20          Current Receipts           21.0    17.9      14.0      7.7      6.6
Smrrices                             220       31       270       3b          Current Expmnditures       25.9    24.1      16.0      9.1      9.9
Current Balance           -3.9    -6.2      -2.0     -1.4       2.3
Total                              633       I00      751       1OO
9GEV MD CREDI1
Ibillions of CFAFJ                  1502      1993     1994      1905     1906
h;ey and Dasi-mnomy                   34.6      42.4     67.9      71.9     73.1
Dma  Credit to Public Sector           11.9     11.0      10.5      3.6     7.0
Dank Credit to Private Sector         30.0      32.5     45.9      65.0     72.9
Haney and Quasi-moey as   GOP          17.9     10.9     30.4      25.3     27.1
Annual percentage change in:
Dank Credit to Public Secto                     -6.9     -4.5    -66.7      200.0
Dank Credit to Private Sector                    9.3     41.2      41.6     12.2



- 30 -
REPUBLIC OF CHAD                                                            ANNIX I
Pg9 Z-   o af 2
TRADE PlAYENTS AND CAPITAL FLUPg                                                           o
DWAACE F PAVIENTS                                                         NERCIANDISE EXPORTS IAVERE 1912-E1
1993     1904    1IS5   196 I                                                  NIH. I tatal
eldllieas of U1
Cott.                                  60.5       II
ExprtIc of lands, IS                106.0   117.9   9S.2    113.3           Total Nerchandi Ee  oras                74.9      100
Imports of Bwds, IF5              -195.8  -226.8  -293.2  -314.7
Reource Imp (deficit * -I          -89.8   -79.9  -195.0  -201.4
EXTERNIL DIET  lSillims of SO)
Interst Pyasmts and                                                                                             mid-I185 enid-196 let.)
O-thr Fator Paymnts lIst)           -6.3    -9.2    -5.3    -7.0
Net Transfrs                        07.4    76.9    72.4    96.4           Public I Pub. luarantud Debt              155      165
-  -         ---          Mn-uat.ed Private Debt                    n.a.    n.a.
blance on Current AccDunt           -9.7   -10.3  -117.9  -112.0
Total hkt, hutstudivg I Disbursed         155      165
DirKt Foreign Investment            -1. 1     7.3    52.3    50.0    DOT SERVICE RATIO I7 dhe)                      1985     1996
Net ILT Borrowing                   -1.9    -1.0       9.6   3J.9
Short-term Capital,
Errors ad hissimns                  20.3    10.7    25.0        0.0       Public I Pub. 5uaranteed Debt             8.1      8.0
Exchange  uarantee                    3.2     4.9       2.7     0.0        bo-guaranteed Privatt Dbt                n.a.    a.a.
Total Debt, latstandiug i Disbursed       8.1      9.0
Overall Balance                      11.9    19.5   -20.3   -23.2
I estimted
IRDWIDA LENmIN,  eceser 1905 [lUl. of US0
IBM      IDA
RATE OF EIEISGE
1993    1984      1985    199        Oiutstanding I Disbursed                   0.0    43.7
Undisbursed                               0.0    10.1
CFAF/USS                            301.1   437.0    449.3   360.0
htstandinq, intl. Indistursed            0S0    53.8



a                               - 31 -
ANNEX II
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS*
Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(as of September 30, 1986)
Amount (less cancellations) 1/
US$ millions
Credit
Number       Year           Borrower            Purpose             IDA   Undisbursed
Nine credits fully disbursed or cancelled 2/                        48.68
489-1-CD      1976              Chad        Sategui Deressia
Irrigation
Supplement             8.00      0.46
664-CD        1976              Chad        Rural Project Funds   12.00      3.79
739-CD        1977              Chad        Sahelian Zone           1.90     0.52
811-CD        1978              Chad        Third Education         8.30     5.33
1716-CD        1986              Chad        Cotton Program         15.00    15.53
1728-CD        1987              Chad        Highway Maintenance   20.00    20.75
TOTAL now held by IDA                                 113.88    46.38
of which has been repaid                                4.66
Total now outstanding                                 109.22
Amount sold                                4.66
of which has been repaid                   4.66         0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA 31                     109.22
Total undisbursed                                      46.38    46.38
1/   Begining with Credit 1716-CD, Credits shown here have been denominated
in Special Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the
dollar equivalent at the time of credit negotiations for the "IDA" amounts and
the dollar equivalents as of September 30, 1986, for the "undisbursed" amounts
(I SDR = US$1.21342).
2/   The second Livestock ($11.5) and Third Highway ($7.6) Projects were cancelled
before becoming effective on October 16, 1980. Supplemental credits were
approved for the First and Second Education Projects and for the Sategui
Deressia Irrigation Project.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
*    The status of the projects listed In Part A is described in a separate
report on all Batk/IDA financial projects In execution of which is lipdated twice
yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



N
4
I  Q
I..                                                                                                  ..



- 33 -                     Annex III
Pagei 1 of 2
CHAD
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
SECTION I - TIMETABLE OF IEY EVENTS
(1)  Time taken to prepare project            8 months
(2)  Project prepared by:                     Government, IDA,
PAO/CP and
Consultants
(3)  Initial discussions with IDA:            November 1985
(4)  Appraisal mission:                       March 1986
(5)  Negotiations:                            December 1986
(6)  Planned date of effectiveness:           July 1987
SECTION II - SPECIAL IDA IMPLEMENTATION ACTION
Provision has been made for PPF financing to cover the costs of
Initiating sub-sector studies and the recruitment of technical assistance
personnel.
SECTION III - SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF THE CREDIT
1.   Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)  The Gbvernnent would sign a contract satisfactory to IDA with a
reputable consulting firm for the recruitment of the resldent
experts (para 48);
(b)  the Government would establish a Project Account for its share of
the project operating costs (local salaries) and deposit FCFA 10
million therein (para 65); and
(c)  the Government would issue a decree designating the Management
Unit of the Rural Projects Fund Project to administer the project
and would provide sufficient office facilities for this purpose
(para 70).



-34-
ANNEX III
Pag 2 of 2
2.   OtheT Conditions
(a) each expert.financed under the project would prepare a work plan
and a training program within three months of his arrival in Chad
and a coordinated program would be presented by the Governmant to
IDA within six months of the arrlval of the experts (para 50);
(b) the Government would apply criteria satisfactory to IDA in
selecting emergency rehabilitation Investments and would ensure
that investments for public sector enterprises exceeding
US$100,000 and all investments for rural development services
would be submitted to IDA for prior approval (paras 56 and 57);
(c) the Government would contribute CFAF 70 million to the cost of
the project and would replenish the Project Account quarterly
(para 65);
gd) the Government would introduce regulations and institutional
arrangements for recovering maintenance costs for water points
and investment and maintenance costs of collective equipments by
December 31, 1987 and after consultation with IDA (para 66); and
Ce)  separate and detailed arrangements would be formalized, not later
than May 31, 1987, specifying organizational and administrative
responsibilities, between the Management Unit and MADR, MEHP, MTE
and BIEP regarding the employment of resident experts and
consultants and the execution of sub-sector studies, between the
MU and ONDR for extension services; and between the MU and ONHPV
for water point maintenance (pars 71).



CHAD
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR)
Organlgram
Secr kcw     1f                           es
Director
Genrwal
GlLa
Director Of                                               d E-*.c..r            I
Agriculture                   R                       Natiornl Meteorology                     Tratg
Agriculture        Agricultural       1Food Crop                                       Professknci        5 0 . . -.
Rosearcn           Paoductlion        Production                                      AgrkcunurM     9-1c" lwi  TecnTuiobd Trn.
Division           Service     |       Sevice                                       Trainig Center   JJi    sJC4*            C d                    -. .
Aglu                Orgon.a_.
Key
8IEP  I lntermrnistereol                                N..flonal                                                 O I A -ffc a
Office for Studies                                Office for         Lake Chake d   AofLS    I Iura
Development       Mse  ete
and Programs                                        Rurol                               and Forestry                      i
Devebpment            Society          Coprthe                ei                   4F>
'Not operotlocxcl                                       [ONR)                 AC              [CMMw    | 5    I OM           |}       "^
'ONDR Organigrom Annex IV Figure IA                                                 __p I L                                  jI 
YkMd 8an-30S9Q.AI
olb:



CHAD
AGRICULI'URAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
National Offlce for Rural Dev-slopment (ONDR)
Orgcnlgrani
Present Organization
>                       -                 .                           NoNonal ~~~~~~~~~url 
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ua    .                                                 --        uI            -   Anchisis and       Rnrew
Secrtarx-|  Ovebpmor.  1 .-    productfor i  Program*kv Agooun
. |   .    Dlvlsion       _     Divisin    ]Gvislon_                        Dision
Admninbtrrion. *
Depwrmenl
I  -                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~Deporhnnt                                Division
I   l                                ~~~~~~~~~~Sudonlan                                  Sahnw
Inputsrzone                                                                                              fLa
L - ~Exlenslon and                        Bdenasn ond|
Urcnin            Prodcwtion                                        Prodsuction  |
Sub-Region (3)
Seto (9                                              Sa) (7
I                                                 I
Sub-Sector (33                                    Sbo  [22!
Wol Ilm-3069:                       2 
1
Ws
Fh



CHAD
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ministry of Livestock and Water Development (MEHP)
Organigrom
Genel                                   1
DEPARTMENT                                                                                                                                                                    L
DEPARTMENT    |    ~~~Director of   |D|irector dof|t 
|Trolnino and Rsomrch |                                       {      t P kriduscln      j L   Deolmn
SUBDEPARTMENT  r-- a,ti,,0q<onal School               Animal              Animal             Proect            i 1 ommtio 
for UVestock              Health            Production        Monogerment            unn              Conrd uni
,K,,                                        LIVESTOCK    PARASTATAL   ORGANIZATION
SIEP - Interrninsdteie                      I                  1
Ofce for Stucdies                                                                           Refi g_rated*
and Programs                      Society far          Animal                                                     ch.: fc4,
Hkies and          Prodiuction         Velednary           Abttorso*ric110
'Not operotkxnl                           Skins              society             Strores             am             foFr DOpigQ              Mro
"ONt.1iV Orgnigrarm                    Processlng           (SOtWA)A           Manabemenor                         AnhanAl so              ONHVeon
Annex rV Figures 2A and 20                                               ~~~~~~~Farcha        STJ                  tU
Woeld 90k-306W.4
U'



CHAD
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
National Office for Water Development (ONHPV)
PRESENT ORGANIZATION
National
Director
ONHPV
Deputy
Director
ONHPV
Adiministratlon     Accounts          Studies            Wells *Borehole"                   prto             ewwbeRroVd
Service          service             Unit            Service           seMAce            SeraviceErg Serviae              RuralpWater
Sub-                                                            Sb
DMsionisDison
(7)                                                             4
parny existung
*Curntyoperatino as one dMsion
'Ito be created
World Bankc-30699:2                 D
'-4
' ,:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



CHAD
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITAJION PROJECT
National Office for Water Development (ONHPV)
PROPOSED REORGANIZATION
DIrector General
ONHPV
Deputy General
Manager ONHPV
AdmInistrotive      Personnel        Study and         Works                               nte
ube.Sub Dept.    Morkeing         Sub Dept.                           Sub Dept.              .      
Sub Dept.                ~~~~~~~Sub Dept.
Accounts and                   WeMaGinefcrle                               tenanc            Cod~ Shsa
Finance                                    Gaaeasoe                    fWtrPit.        Spare pof
Sub Dept.                    sulcU          Service        SevcesriowePf
Reglonal
Centers (4)
Sub-          etc,
Divisions (14)
w                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11!
Wold 8ank-30M99:3
O U
; .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



: - . -
=: ::
: : - ':
- =- .E
ws - .
l
AyR/? -"Jev tow
- <:>F -
:
: ; :



-41-                                   AM        V
ACRTCUL1URAL RIIBILTTATTON PRtoiz
Summry of Resident Experts mad Consultants
Total     Study
Asuignnmnt Te              Assigment TSiuit
Conent and Post                         Period at uimbere  19B7   18u   1989    1990
(months)
1. Tratitution Develpment
Resident Experta
Applied Research                        30       -        4      12      12       2
Seed Production                         30       -       4       12      12       2
Agricultural Training                   30       -        4      12      12       2
Extension                               30       -        4      12      12       2
HEHP
Livestock Production Econmist           30       -        4      12      12       2
BllFP
Project Develop.enc SpeciaList          30       -       4       12      12       2
Finmncial Analyst                       30      -        4       12      12       2
Plroject Unit (Conseltants)
Accountant                              12       -        4       6       2       -
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist    21      -        4        6       6       2
Contingency for Technical Expert        30      -         4      12      12       2
2. Project Kanaenent Office (Consultants)
Civil Engineer (Farch.)                  1      -         L       -       -       -
Other Specialists                      5       -        2       3       -       -
3. Pilot Actions (Consultants)
Sball-Scale Irrigation Development
Soils/Water Analyst                    3      -         3       -
Snriologist/Analyst                    6      -         2       2       2       -
Wadt Development
SoilstUater Analyst                    2      -         2       -       -       -
Conservation Specialist                1       -        I       -       -       -
Rural Water Points Muintenauce
Planning Engineer                     is      -        4        6       6       5
Hydro-Geologist                        6      -         3       3       -       -
Rurel Trainer                         10      -         3       7       -       -
4. Sector Planning (Consultants)
(a) Agricultural Production and                      b
Diversification Study                 11.5    5-        6     5.5       -       -
Agricultural Statistician               24      1         6      12       6
(b) Livestock Production ard                         c/
Marketing                             10.5   5-        6    4.5         -
Livestock Statistician                  24      1        6       12       6
(c) Forest Production and
Resource Conservation                  7.5    5-        6      15       -
Resource Conservationiat                24      1        6      12        6
(d) Rural Credit                             4.5     e       45 
at SummaEr of Assignments
1. 273 -n months (for details see Project Working Paper Z)
2.  6  "    "    (Eor details see Project Working Paper 2)
3. 46  "
4. 106n "
rotal 431  n      (approx. 36 -  years)
bf TeS specialists: food crop sgronomist, industrial crop agronamist, crop processing,
agro-economist, sociologist.
T Ieaa specialists: livestock production, livestocklproducts srketing, abattoir development,
hides and skins production, livestock econasics.
dl Team specialists: forestry production, soils conservation, water conservation, agricultural
economics, institutions development.
Tel Te, specialists: credit and savings, aicultural economics.



:- e -; :
-
: - :: r
- BS -
- ;-
: 4::
l  -  ::       |
- :



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
AGRICULTURAL REHABDILITATION PROJECT
Summarv Account by Project Cosponent
(US $ '000)
INSTITUTION                                                   SECTOR               Phyuical
BUILDING -   PLANNING   PROJECT      EMERGENCY              PLANNIN6 -           Continseneies
MADR AND MERP SUPPORT   MANAGEMENT REHABILITATION   PILOT   BUD SECTOR
DEPARTMENTS    BIEP       UNIT        ACTIONS      ACTIONS  STUDIES    Total       Z    Amout
I* INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                            -         -           -           1266      239                1J505    1.6      24
Bt VEHICLES                             243        46          70               -      308                  648   10.0      67
C. EQUIPMENT                            113         -          25           1,152      974                2,165   4.7    101
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               2.348       783                        -            -               3v130    0.0       0
E. CONSULTANTS                             -        -         383             197      533         912    1.914   0.0        0
F. TRAINING                              72        29          10               -       26           -      138   10.0      14
G. STUDIES                               78        29                                    -       2P343   2v450   3,0        75                 w
-- - - - -     - - - -  - - - - -    - - - - - -   ---- -  - - - - -      -  --       -   -
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                   2.955       887         488           2,605   l1.9l        3.155  11.970   2.3    290
IlI RECURRENT COSTS
A, LOCAL PERSONNEL                     361       113         153              93      365           -    1.084   9.1 
BD OPERATING COSTS
MAINTENANCE VEHICLE                 472        94          71               -      273           -      911   10.0      91
OTHERS                              382       128          26             279       72           -      887   6.9       61
Sub-Total OPERATING COSTS              854       222          97             279      346           -    196    8.5    152
Total RECURRENT COSTS                    1.215       335         250             372      710           -   2.892    9.7    251
Total BASELINE COSTS                      4.070     1,222         738           29977    2,691       3.155   14.953   3.6    531
PhusAcel Contingencies                   172        44          36               -      216          64      531    0.0       0
Price Contingencies                      714       227         126             175      520         387    24191    4.4      97
----  - -- --  - -- --    -- -- - -  -- - -- -- -
Total PROJECT COSTS                       4996      1.493         901           3.152   31427        3,605   17.574    3.6    629                t
Foreign Exchane                        3.702     1.095         595           2.225   29467        2.957  13J040   3.0    389
__ -- - -- -   ------------ ------------ ------------ ----------- ------------ ------------ ----  ------



REPUBLIC OF CHD
AGRICLTUAL REHABILITATION PROCT
Stauur Accots by Year
(US S '000)
Base Costs               Foreign Exch
87/88  8089J  89/90  90/91  Total       I     Aunt
auu--         s,s i-sMMS-             ---- _ -
Is INVESTMENT COSTS
________________
A. CIVIL WORKS                    256    448    477   324   1,505  6U.0          978
B. VEHICLES                       421    157     74     15      68    90.0       601
C. EQUIPMENT                      300    584    701    579   24165    90.0     1.948
Do TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE           925  1JOO    790    415   3130    90.0      2.917
E  CONSULTANTS                    858    555    343    158   1,914   90.0      1.723
F. TRAINING                         9    39      51     39     138    80.0       110
6, STUDIES                      1,404    625   335      96  2,450    8.0       1,960 
-------------------- -----
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             4.173  3,40   2,772  1.617  11970    8467   10,138
II, RECURRENT COSTS
A. LOCAL PERSONNEL               305    337    279    164   1.084     0.0         0
B. OPERATING COSIS
MIINTENANCE VEHICLE           206    287   264    153    911    80.0         729
OTHERS                        218    266   242    161    997    40.0         355
Sub-Total OPERATING COSTS        424    553   508    314   1,799    60.3      Is0                      4df
Total RECURRENT COSTS                729   870   786    477  29882    37.6    1.084                        0
Total MSELINE COSTS                 4.902  44297 39559 2.095  14.853    75,6   11.222
Physical Contingencles             171    154    129     77    531    63.0        335                    w
Price Contingencies                367    603   708   514   2s191    67.7       1484
Total PROJECT COSTS                 5s440  5.054  4s395 2465  17.574   74.2   13,040
Foreign Exchange                 4,175  3.730  3.202  1,934  13,040    0.0          0



REPUBLIC OF CAD
AGRICULTURAL REHAILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
CUSS' 005
IDM  FY    Disbursement      Cuaulative       Region-wide               17                                                  ,-
and Seecster  by suoester       Disbursement      Profile (I1
_                                      _- -  ------                           -
14 -
1988     I     1,500 ad          1,500               I                      -
II     1,900            3,400               5
1989     1     2,400            5,500               II
11     2,400            9,200              20                   t/
1990     1     2,500            10,700              29                   10
11     2,500           13,200              39                                                                                                                            4 _
1992     1      1,900           15,100              49
11     1,300           16,400              59         -          7
1992     1      1,000           17,400              68
It                                         77         a-         B
1993     1
II                                         90                       _
1194     1                                          95                                      -S.-,
If                                         99                     2   /
1995     1                                         100
1-
____ ______ - -_ - - ---------------I                                                                                                      I            I      I        
Notai IDA kstin Africa Region profile for technical                          155H            1agg                     1iai         1512          01R          1134         1nB
assistance projects; Septeuber 1915.
IDA Fiscal Yeuar  July I - June 30.                                                                     IDA  Fiscal Years
Project Yearut  ctober I - Septecbur 30.
Negotiations Decrbu 1986.
Target Date for Effectivenessi July 1987.
a/ Including 5 0.5 million PPF.                                                                                                                                              o
0   i
:I



: ::; 
::
- ir -
X/s vou Se s/< e
=s =:
:f_=':  '   S  - .
. -, , -:



-    -                           ANNEX VII
CHAD
AGRICULTURAL REHAILITAT ION PROJECT
Analytical Information Contained In the Project Working Papers
Code No.
1.   General Description of the Agriculture Sector (production,
institutions and organization).                              D00757
2.  Tents of Reference:                                              D00758
(a) Resident Experts
(b) Sub-sector Studies.
3.   Detailed Description of Pilot Actions:                          D00759
(a) Small-scale Irrigation
(b) Wadi Development
Cc) Soils and Water Analysis'Laboratory
(d) Rural Water Points Maintenance Program.
4.   (a)  Project Organization and Management                        D00760
(b) Snunmary Master Plan for Trai-ning
5.   Emiergency Rehabilitation Operatio-ns (Farcha Laboratory and
Abattoir, and other developments).                           D00761
6     i    i    an                P-s.                              D



w:                                                                                                                                               V :      s2          
AGRICULTURAL  i                                                            f                                                              _O
REHABILITATION
.    .       PROJECT                   k/                                /                                                                £ d  ,,'-
-TO      *  PILOT CULTIVATION SITES               J                          I                                  /              N.                        24        
*   PILOT WATERPOINTS DEVELOPMENT SITES    !               /     u I                                 /
*   LOCATION OF ANALYTICAL LABORATORIES   |              /                                         /
W. 1MITS OF AGRO-ECOLOOICAL ZONES                         /                                         /
ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS            |              /                                         /
o   PREFECIURE CAPITALS                              /
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL
-- SUB-PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES           I
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES '
o    -. -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIESA
APPROAIMATE BOUNDARIES
|  /                             ~~~~~OF4er        1 
j           SA HA R AN  Z/ N E/ 
./S,                                                 I            /                   ___q__~0oyEo,.o, 
I'
/ 7-
N I G E R/ 



7/                                         ______                     S  U    D   A    N
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
_    _   _   _      __r_               _   _    _   _      _   _   _   _      _   _    _   _     _    _   _   _      __I_               _   _    _   _     _    __                                  Ir    .



