D.imof
The World Bank
FM OMRCAL USE ONlr
Reot No. 12227
PROJECT CONPLEmoC  RPrT
CED
ARCEJLIR   RIR   PROJECr
(CREDIT 1775-CD)
AUGUST 6, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
uture Operatin  Dii    Report No: 12227
Sahellan Departmnt              Type: PCR
Afric Regional Office
I  &I documet bas a wesuicted     ned&W    mWay be used by reciplems ony In the poesfrnma   of
O0cial duties. Is cuttntsany out othervis. be diI .sed w.totWorl ..k aodiz.



t ~~              ~          ~          ~"    et                 
UV3                  sa dmlamtm        maw std"at de
t             g          taho
am         SWAkoM t*Lm  deaSaaag* vddi e~t de do
is_d kopn   "a boom" a_w      u
cc           _oats, *a Codt 4mwdAt ALomal.  _ed
aamit awat                 q
Cs           Cmtt$ dzso   Lgaml  de tl -  l m  tub
ats          autAs iatemaldiA.1e It"eT do 1014
MAl emA gauln ZaleciaA*AlZp eMAtdShA
fol Chd C@tu COOP&")
'           camp" do Nola emlut a _coa. too"
CS          _OmpL SlielAl do PtcO4n 1t400I1Xa Pvul.
aegoal.  (at_d by =a)
am2            OmiAl VuebG*qqO lwalmAuAs4i&51 de
Get         Gob " now
Me"Cl IQ "§s De P^m"t
UP.       nloasln   0O9ailq    agoaSe
Rtm                      0:0192a4, et  aota d& I Sta1
(I.805oflIgal Cialiul @551t)
t_aiali dil t  &          at do
Oalsl    miniaqo &tuseahu at   ae
_   " o r  Developent)
lowAni    de I'dlotAw at dI
11a,ta,cminm&Lefty11 of ?msimo Mad
an          wAibog de 1t       - e de
@1,13      off Au. de tsum so blues di Saudgt.
,_go"" t4tt05  smtOg   so,utpal of
amD OttOff    a atia de                    imat
IU&tAumi "0111*5      oft#0,viw
an 1*50351 Vtes1)
Comm             ittA. dB Mabtasa  soufigm et
_l            etttMrMAddeo  aVftg  di - Obuu
-t om-0t   , U Aft"l Wl          s
SW ~ ~~       _,   _,as 1*1116*
tft  aw  t t -
Off      ftb  et" _t    _^            }
an            mPdhlllsUfm diftto Ssaa *2a"*s
(OgsAmllutal at010
00$ 3.00 * Om Wm0.?
=WI.*    a_ -o                      q 
ftO _Ak 5t PI  00 *   US.Wt M
.nsumaea uuW~ I - OseMies 31
99u14dts 001606I - gmatdiz 30
as t auway 302



International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FOR   OCIAL USE ONLY
Sec9S3-898
PRCMs  Vice President and Secretary                      August 209 1993
PR,Ccoal&=
Chd:s Ahcult3al ehabi1Itt±gA            Proiect
(Credit 1775-CD)
Attached is a copy of a _morandum frm Mr. Picclotto with its
accompauying report entitled Projset Completion Report: Chad - Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project)" dated August 6, 1993 (Report No. 12227) prepared by
the Africa Regional Office, Part II was prepared by ths Borrower.
DistribQtion:
Executive Directors and Alt.rntes
Office of the President
Executive Vice Presidents, IPC and MICA
Vice Presidents, Bank, IPC and MICA
Directors and Department Bead., Bank
.~~~~~~
I :.is -ocumlent s a fsuted distdbutio and may be us  b rnedbyonts cly in t..-
u : of thei oficis dutesi. ltcontAts ynot oiherwiwbe dstodwi hwut Wword la4k*hodrtio*
* 4 -7.  ze; . ,, o # *; 5 . . > . o * ^. t w ONV;



FPOR OMaCAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wasington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OHfb, of DIW.G.n"
Opertln .valn
.
SUBJIECT Project Completion Report on Chad
Aultural Rehabilitation Proect (C:redit 177S-CDL
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Chad - Agicultura Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 1775-CD) pepaed by the Africa Regi    Offr   Part II was prepared by the
Borrower.
e proect was in response to Chas multiple setbacks of 1979.1986 (cvi war,
drought and colapse of the cotton sector). It aimed to provide short term rehabilitation
assitance for productive rural falitis and longer term devc!opment of key rurl sct
institutions, mainly through technil assistance (TA) and training (about half of project costs).
Results for rehabilitation components were mixed, with five succeedig (a
slaughterhouse soil and vacine laboratories, see pro tion and rural water poits), while four
other components faied because of lack of farmer and government interest (particulaly as two
duplicated existing activis) Th  uess of the rural water points component is attrbuted to
demand by benefiaries and thek fudl involvement in implmenta  and maintenance. Resuts
of the institutional components were dspinting because of poor conmitmnt by govarmnt,
low staff incentves, lak lustre performance by an undul large TA group and the absence of a
formal traiing program. Monitoring and evaluation was ineffective.
An economic rate of retun was not estimated for the project, but the operation is
rated unssoy, with uncetain sustainability (for all but the water points component)  The
project design was an unhappy maiage of short term rewvey  vestments and longe term
institution building, the latter by methods which prowved largely  effece.      Bank filed to
cogne the general lack of interest of government in the institutional objctives With
hindsight, a better approach might bave been to limit the project's scope to high priord activities
clarly demanded by beneficiaries.
No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard KOpp
Attachment
I%b do t h a Uut                   dW mbe                * k d
aM     "I. ft co"   my #  o bofe dWc fteot Wodd WON _ttMor



i.
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETIO REPORT
9~~~
CHAD
AORICULTURAL EILMATIQ  PROECT
(C:RDtT 1775C)
TABLE OF CONTUTS
EVALUATION 8ilumOR                                                                     i
PART . PROi=C  MRNV!RV  PRM 31K   URPCI     .....        
a. Project identity.   ......*. . . . . . . . . . .1
3. Project Dsackrnd . . . . . . . .   .         l       .
C. Project Objectives andDescription   ...... ....               2
D. Project Design and Organisation  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
B. Project Iplemetation 9 . * . . ..* * 0      .      . . *  *  .*. . .  3
P- Project Results  . . . . . . . . .  * . . . . . .   . .   .   4
.P rojec sustaility . . t.  ..................    S
1. Bank Performnce . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .   .   6
I. ?.450fl Learned  . . . . . . . . * * * * * * . * * 6 *  * *
Jo Borrower Performace . . .     . . *.. . . .   * . *  . . . .  7
_A tM U. PROJUOT REVIEW PROM RORROWER' S PIRSPEOTIVE . ...........   8
PFAC          . .... .                                                 8
A. Projectl  mlation and Appraisal  . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
a. Project Exection  . . . . . . . .  .     . .                 11
C* Achievements .   .      * #* * * *  * *           *          14
D. RavLo  of DA Pefoamne   .    .    .    .    .    0   0    *     16
D.e vIofa                     ...................................... 17
PAR3;. Les IonsLaRned. . . . . ... * . . . . . .  . ..  .*.*     . 19
1. Related Bank Credits . . . . .  . . . .   .  *. .  .. . . . .*..  19
2. Project Timetable. . . . . .  . .  . . .  .  .. . .   . . .*.   . .  19
3. Credit Disbursemets              9 . . . .    .         * * 20
4. Ptoject Implemetation .9. . . . . . . . . . . . * . . . . . 21
S. Project costs and Fiacing*  . . . . . .  . . * *  - . * *   22
6. Project Results. . . . . . . . . * * -        * - 9  *   * -  23
7. Status of Covenants. .      9    9               ..... a    * 9 9 o  9  9 *     *   * * 24
8. Use of Bank Resources. * * *     . * a  . . * * * * o   *  * *   * 25
c~~~tgm hais tw*            tfut  *DW so.d be *W byp-!
Oft* o4ffialdties. Its coatsUt May notohes*Ao f diclosd wiho WoUl RUth Wf   Ik
0< .- ,,,~.,4X.I  ^Ft .....................................   



Thio is the Project Copletion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Reaill'ation Project in Chad, for which Credit 177S-CD in the amount of
8DR 14.5 Alllon was approed on larch 31, 1987. The credit was closed on
Mtarch 31, 1992. The last disbursement was on August 4, 1992 with a
remaining undisbursed balance of IDO 3,142,077 which was cancelled on the
same date.
The PCR was prepared by the agLculture Operations Division,
Sahelian Department of the Africa RegLon (Preface, Evaluation Sumumary,
Parts I and 11). Part 11 was prepared by the Borrower.
This1CR Mi based,  ter  alia, on the Credit Agrementl supervLsion
reports;                betwee  the Bank and the Borrower; and internal
Bank memoranda.



- ii -
(     7)BDIT 177
1.   The projet was designed as an emrgecy opeation for Chad to
restore the institutional bases for agricultural deelopment following a
destating civil war (1979-82), a sers drought (1984), and an unpre-
cedented crisis in the cotton sector between 1984 end 1986. The project
had two main objectives. Z4j=, it aimed to improv coordination through
the developmt of )ey rural institutions and the emergency rebabilitation
of productive facilities in the rural sector. jeconC, for the longer
tem, it aimed to enhaee the  overnment*s ability to guide agricultural
planning and devlopmnt, by implementing pilot actions to establish
ptimum approache in rural development and by carrying out key suj-sector
studie. The project was to be implemented over a four-ya period.
IM_Se_t_m n    _nc
ii.   The project implemntation period was coaslistent with the oaiginal
five-year excution plan, but with a six-month delay in Credit
Zffectiveness, and a three-mnth extension in Credit ClosLng. Bowever,
due to a slower than exected disbursement schedule, total project costs
represeted about 80% of original estimates, leaving a canceled balance of
SDR 3.1 million. Key factors responible for this slow digburcmnt weres
(a)  delays in Procurement decisions due to Governmen  heavy and
inefficient procedurs for approving annual proect activities and
budgetsl (b) inadequate provislon of _10MI conterpart. fund due to
misint rprtion by Goverment of the  quWilred level of local counterpart
fund, lead        to a suspension of dsburmts u r the Special Account
for on year.
iii. The results of the project were mixed but overall poject
performance wa less than satisfactory. The project sooftwre  component
--the institutional developnnt actions-which claimd over 508 of project
eitpnditures fell short of       t in  rural development plainlg and
strategy formulation capact.  Nowvr, the nharAerew componet-
emrpency rehabilitation and pllot actions to tegt new development
approahes focusing on benofiiaTy participation-fared btt.  Iuch of
th  rehabilitation program ws xexuted and one of the three pilot
actions, the rural water points maintenance program, was successfully
impimmented  and benefitted  about 55,000 users.   The institutioal
delopment progrm was largely handicapped by ineffective monitoring and
evaluation arrangnts. This ituation was further exacerbated by biases
among Many high Government officials in favor of rehabilitation
activities, and who tended to perceive the project as a way of fiancing
the opeations of their own a      sation.
.       .                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- v-
iv.  The project'a most outstanding benefit, the rural water program
which is being managed by users themselves is likely to be sustained. In
fact, the design of this program has been a source of inspiration for
subsequent operationa financed by other donors.   The rehabilitation
program for productive facilities bnefitted mainly the animal vaeccie
laboratory, and the N'djamena slaughterhouse. Currently botb enterprises
a  benefittaig from other donors* support. The sustainability of these
activities is hard to assess. First, political/mlitary factors still
play a major role.   Second,  a        t  and policy issues are also
critical.  Government has envis on   priv zti:ing the slaughterhouse to
ensure the sustainability of Lts   ratons, but the process has been
slow. For the Labotatory however, ustainability of its operations--like
moat animal vaccine laboratories in Sub-Saharan Africa-involve complex
issueso the fees currently charged to livestock owners may need to be
raised by several times, and/or animal vaccine production may nee to be
viewed  from  a regional per"pective with the  con        e  that the
activities of many national laboratories would have to be phased out. The
prr~ject also helped restore the production of seed for food crops.  The
sustainability of this activity is likely because key oupporting measures
e.g., agricultural extension are planned in the context of the upcoming
agricultural services project.
Cmmtnt ont Ol    m'  Vie
v.   The Borrower prepared an extensive draft PCR (Part  I).  nowevor,
the draft fails to describe the likely impact of the project. The Bank
ha informd the Borrower of the shortcoming of its PCR and requested an
updated version, but no reply has bee received.
Pindi. an Lessons Land
vi.  The combination of an emergency rehabiltation program with
institutional developmnt activities appears in retrospect to have led to
an unduly omplex project, combining components which are too different in
terms of the tim  required for preparation.  The cexity  f the
project's overall maage        appears to he been       retate        n
addition, there  hould have been less Government interforenc  in the
managemnt of the rehabilitation component. This would have redued the
conseuencs  of  biase   among  heads  of  ministries  in  favor  of
rbabilation activities. The project opeated in parallel with in-line
depatmetal services which reinforced to som  extent the bises of
Government officials in favor of fiacg  rehablitaton activities.
These, combined with Government's limited       atv  capacity, led to
an ineffective monitoring and administration of the lintitution
development component.
vii. The amount of technical assistace included in the project wa too
large. Nine resident technical advisers were appointed for a 30-month
assi    t each in the rural minLstries or servics, n addition to other
¢onsuting  services.   Although  it wa  anticipated  during  project
Prepration that adjustments to project design could be made during
implementation, the length of the technical assistants' contracts was too
constraining to make usful restructurLng of the project.



PARS I  ROJUCT        gm ROM     . PRSPC V
A.
Projet Jame                  Agricultural Rhbllitation Project
Credit Not                   1775-CD
1WP units                    Africa Region
Country:                     Chad
sectors                      Agriculture
1.   With a per capita income of about US$130 in 1985, Chad is clasified
a. one of the pooret mad least developed countries in the world.
Agriculture, including livestock, forestry and fishing, dominates chad' 
OcOnomy. It provides a livellood for about 85S of the population and
geuerates 44% of GDP. Food crops account for about 50% of agricultural
GOP, cah crops (mostly cotton) for 10%, and livestock ad fishing for
40%.
2.   Prom the late 1970a to the early 1980s, prospects for agricultural
delopment in Chad were being jeopardizod by a devastating civil war
(1979-82), followed by a seve  drought in 1984 and an unpected
crisis in the cotton sector in the 1984-86 period. Durig the civl war,
political administration at all levls ceased to function, and public
utilities and government sevices wore abandoned. Much infrastructure and
physiLal capital were destroyed or dlIapidated; the road network, in
particular, deteriorated severely, crippling internal trade and producLng
economic fragmentation. The 1984 drought had immediste and widesprad
effects, particularly In the 8ahelia zone, creating a flux of refugees in
the South. Food production droppd significantly, meeting only half of
total requirements. In the cotton sector, a 40% drWp in world prices
during 1985-86 period contributed to losses for the national cotton
company at levels beyond Governmt'o abillty to support or to correct.
3.   Govrnmnt efforts to recover from the conseec  of the civil war
were encourlagi.  in 1983, a program of national reconciliation was
launchd, and resulted in the beginning of economic recovery with a growth
in rel GDP of S.St.  However, this was short-lived due to the 1984
drught and the cotton crisis. Donos reaction to the drought were quick
and effective.   A   NDP-coordinated relief effort carried out with
GovermentIs full cooperation succeeded in averting widesrea famine, and
displaced pop         were settled in productive agricultural areas. Good
rainfall in 19f5 allowd food production to nearly regain the self-
sufficiency levl, but the situation remained fragile due to the continual
tjreat of drought# the risk Of a preatuW  return of displaced populations
to ecologically unstable areas in the Sahelian zoe, the dilapidated road
network, and the lack of agricultural support services. Preparatory work
&% t   /   .   ,>7   o   ''   \A  <   '   '   '   '  -  *'   '  '   '   i   s  wt   *  *   ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
X $ ..--3  Z ;.o va4



-2-
bw Governmet and donors, including the Dank, to address the urgnt needo
the cotton sector was underway in 1985. By mid-1986, the Bank approved
a credit to support a Cottc  mergency Program for Chad.
4.    Until early 1985. because of the difficulties faced by the conom,
most activities in the formal sector had boen supported by the aid
agenies, including nuzmrous N00. Public expenditures had remaoined low,
and civil servants were reciving only 60% of their 1978 salaries in
noiAnal toers, or about one-third in real terms.  Rural development
activities consisted of a plethora of agricultural devlopment actions
which arose from the emergency situation and which lacked a coherent
policy framework, operatLonal strategies, or admLnistrative coordination,
thus, long-term porepectives had been neglected.
S.   The Goverment was comitted to reversing this situation and to
realizing the potential for increasing agricultural and livestock
production in the medium to long-term.  Bowver, the activities of the
three ministries involved in rural devlopment, naely the Ministry of
Agricultsre and Rural Deelopmnt (ADR), the Ministry of Livestock and
Water Devolopmt (MM), and the  iLnistry of TourLm and Environment
(ET) had been reduced to rudimentary operations. Plannirg and technical
services, as well as project implementation capacity within these
mnistrie   wer  particularly  weak. There was a real need for an
institutional develOpsmnt program, thus the rational for the AJgricultural
Rehabilitation Project.
C. IjoL9hmnkat"_a  anhAgLhimSD
6.         a               The project had two main objectivess restoring
the devlopment of the agricultural sector and establishing the basis for
xasion  thrugh  future  projects.    ZLXSt,  it  aimd  to  improve
dination through the development of key rural Lnstitutions and the
mrgoncy rehabilltation of productive facilities in the rural sector.
Second, for the longer term, it aimed to enhance the Governamnt's ability
to guide agricultural plannig and development, by implmnting pilot
actions to establish optimm approaches in rural development and by
carrying out key sub-sectbr studie.  The project was to be implemnted
over a four-year period.
7.            P            The total prject cost was estimated at
8s$ 17.6 million, 98% fro  the IDA credLt and 2a from Govrfient's
contribution.   It was allocated  mong five components as follows:
Institution Development (37%), Sub-sector Studies (21%), Pilot Actions
(19%), Emrgeny Rehabilitation (18%), and Project angent Unit (5)t.
Project  coats by  category  wer   distributed  as  follows:  Technical
Assistance ad Consultants (34%), Vehicles and quipments (19%), operating
Costs (19%), Studies (17%), Civil Works (10%), and Training (1%).  The
following main itms and activLties were finawed under the different
components:
(a)    attutima Deveopmet involved technical assistance and
training to help define policies and strategies, to reorganize
and to rectivate key rural miistries', dtand
agencies, and to ensuou    pr cordinato  of oraton.
Activities to be fn          inluded provisn  of rit
experts, consulting services training, vehicles, and
equi-mnt.
(b)        eOf Poductive acilities involved (1)
the rhabilitation of the anima  Vaccine laboratory And the
N'djamena slaughterhouse; and (1i) upon Govermentt's propooal,
the restoration or initiation of operations for other rural



-3-
services during project implemntation. Buch services would
include research, training, extension, fam equipment, small
scale agricultural processing, and rural construction.
(c)  Pilot Actionm  focused on testing and demonstrating optimum
organisation and technologies for expanding food crop
production and water resource management. Specific activities
included  riverside  cultivation,  wadi  cultivation,  and
maintenance of rural water polnts. Also Included was the
construction of a water and soll laboratory.
(d)   Sector Planning  lncluded  the  re-establishment  of  data
collectLon services and key sub-sector studies which would
feed into the Lnstitution development program, focusing ons
(L) commodities wlth high potentLal for economic development;
(LL) livestock production, processLng and marketing; (Lii)
forest production and resource conservation; and (iv) rural
czedit analysis.
D. Proect Des1an MO Onmimatio
8.    *nQnS 22gLa  The project was desLgaed on the basis of an initial
assessmet of urgent rehabilitatLon needs-there was no staff appraisal
report.  Proje.t design was kept flaxible because of the constantly
changing situatLon in Chad and because international aid was not
coordinated. Thus, any need to adjust the project orlglnal components was
to be deaided at biannual revlew meetings with the Bank (para. 10).
9.   Paile   praanlk atlon. The project was organized as follows: (i) a
Project Management Unit (PMU) housed withln the Ministry of Planning was
to asume overall managemnt of the project; (ll) an Interministerial
Management ComaLttee (CTIG) which consisted of five Ministers or their
representatives was to administer the PIW and to approve the project's
annual budget; (iLL) on Investment Committee was to approv emergency
rehabilitation activities; and (iv) a Committee within each mdiniterial
department was to monitor project activities for the department.
10.  aesponsLbility for the exeution of the project components was
handed ovr to the miniLterial departments directly concerned (MADR, MEHP,
UTZ) and to other rural development agencies within these departments.
The sub-sector studies were to be coordinated and supervised by the
Director of 31ZP, the It erministerial Office for studies and Planning.
The P3W was to coordinate and monitor impleentation of the project's
annual work program and budget, based on proposals for indLvldual
components as prepared by the departments.   Adjustments to project
operations to respond to changing situations Ln Chad were to be dcided on
the basis of bi-annual progress reports whlch would be prepared by the PMW
and reviewed durLng the Banks supervLoLn missions.
11.    W12Z  1MleMentti*n Prc   ad _Coss.   The actual project
Implementation period was cosisLtent with the original plan and took
slightly less than four years. Credit effectivenes was delayed by six
months due to slow Govermnent bureaucratic procedures to issue required
legal documents, and a three-month extenion of the credit was granted to
allow for the completion of som activities. Final project cost fell
short of the origLinal estimate of SDR 145 million, due to a slower than
expectd disbursement schedule. A credit balance of SDR 3.1 million,
representing about 21% of the credLt amount, wa canceled at the credit
closing da.
. a



4
12.  Critcal Pctors Affeatia Projega  ImolmntatloM.   Two ftors
larely contributed to the slow pace of credit dlsbutement. First,
pwcu      t 4decisains were delayed due to inefficient administrative
procedures. Project executing agencies were alow in specifying item to
be procuredr agenciso' directors or heads of departments were alow in
apprving procurement proposals, and ZGCR,  the State Central Control
Office, which was entrusted with a priori approval over expenditures was
slow in exercising its tasks.   Nevertheless, procurment mechanims
including the recruitment of technical assistants followed Bank
procedures, thanks to the familiarity of the Director of the P1W with
these procedures.
13.  Second, the project foiacing plan was misleading regarding the
level of Government counterpart funds. Governmnt's understanding of the
level of local counterpart funds was based on Section 3.03 of the Credit
Agreemnt which stated mistakenly a total contribution of CFAF 70 million;
the disbursement percentages in Schedule I of the Credit Agreement implied
a larger level of local counterpart funds from Government. One and a half
years after project effectiveness, the bank statements of the Special
Account showed    gap.   Disburements under the Special Account were
consequently suspended. They were resumed one year later after Government
agred to pay, by tranches, the total amount of the gap into the Special
Account. Government completed all the required payments a few weeks
before the closing date.
14.  Proi i. Original assesment of project risks focused on the
uncertain oecurity situation in Chad, and also on the possibility that
project execution could be highly dependent on the porformance of the
technical assistants. Project execution was affected in late 1990 when
President Sabre was expelled from power in a milltary coup. Thli led to a
temporary freese of project activities as diaburemsents under the Special
Account wwer suspended for three months. For the technical assistance, it
was anticipated that precise terms of reference, as well as close
supervision of project activities would reduce the risks involved. In
retrospect, it appears that the capacity of the Chadisn administration to
digoet the large amount of technical assistance involved was overlooked.
. P,iw 
15.  Ovral Proisgt UMulte. The ovorall results of the project were at
best marginal and project performanc  w   loe  thn satisfactory. The
proict -software componentinstitutional development and studies-which
claimed over 50% of expenditures clearly failed to achieve Its objective,
namely the strngauhening of Institutional capacity and the training of
local staff. The whardwre  compo--rnoy rehabilitation and pilot
actions to test new development approacheo geared around koneticiary
participation-fared such better. Much of the  mergncy rehabilitation.y
program was executed, and for pilot actions, a highly successful approach
has been developed in one case, and important lessons were learned from
other cases (para. 16).
16.  PilghJ, ctLS'M. Clearly, one outstanding benefit of the project was
achLeved through the rural water points matenance program carried out
under the project pilot actions. Water point user groups were sot up
includLag approprLate procedures for the pa nt of mainten        costs by
the beneficiaries themselves, and a msyst   using private
blacksmiths and spare-parts dealers. About 55,000 users have benefitted
from the program. Also, the construction of the water and soLl laboratory
was fully completed. However, Implementation of the two other sub-
cm ponents, nmely wadi cultLvation and riverside cultivatLon was however
quickly discontinued. The objective was to promote beneficiary
participation for the development of improved watr management for
irriation, but it soon became apparent that there was little enthusiasm
for the initiative neither frm farers, nor the executing agecy.



- 5 -
17.     -n          bllitation Of ProdctWi   ltle.In addition to
the support pray dad by other donor&s, project activities clearly
contributed to restorLng the operations of the animal vacacne laboratory
and the MI'djamen slaughterhouse. The project provided assistance to
replace worn out or destroyed equipont, as weill as to cover maintenance
costs. Project asseitance also contributed to the restoratLon of seed farm
productLon operatLons includLng fruLt tree nursorLes. in addltlon, several
rural water points were constructed and equlpment was provIded to selected
rural development servLoe. However1  activltLes pertaining  to the
construction of farm implements and to small-scale agricultural processing
actLvltLes were canceled due to the lnabilLty of Government to submit
adequate proposals to the Bank.
18.  IMUFtio  Dvlgmnt mg Sa-cr Planaig. The project faLled to
strengr.hen the Lnstitutional capacity of the rural administration,
partlcularly with respect to providing effective asi stance for definLng
agricultural sector polLcies and strategies.   First,, the anticipated
support to be provided by the expatriate technical assistants was not
oefective. Training of local staff was inadequate and the Bank's repeated
requests that a formal training program should be developed were never
honored. The sub-sector studies were completed, but except for one study
on agricultural statltlces that presented useful results, the studies were
gonerally descriptive and failed to prosent adquate or operatlonal plans
of action. Second, there was no adequate administrative and institutional
set up to ensure feed-back from relevant mLnistries on the work done by
the techaLcal assistants. This situation was further aggravated by the
high turn-over in ministerial appointees. Thus, the technical assLstants
operated in Lsolation from the local adminLitration, in particular durlng
the process of information gatherLng, processing, and analysis of
findings.
19. VPJefct Documentstion and Data. although there was no appraisal
report, the project-related working papers provided both the Bank and the
Dorrower with a useful framework for project implementation. Assets and
files were lost due to civil unrest. However, lt was easy to retrLeve and
reconciliate flnancial data because the fLnanclal consultant had backup
computer dLikettes.
6. Z±ek.JZshabL±t
20. The project's most outstanding benefit, the rural water point
maintonance program, is likely to be sustained. This program, along with
other pilot action (par&. 16), was geared around strong beneficiary
participation. it is successful and sustainable because it meets water
supply needs and its design is approprte.  one important clue to the
sustainablity of thie program is the willingness of benficiaries to
contribute to the cost of this operation. The results of this program
contrast with those of the other pilot operations, namely the wadi and
riversLde cultivation, whlch also sought to promote beneficiary
participation. Here, it quickly became apparent that these activities
were not considered high priorities by the intended beneficiaries,
particularly as nuerous donors, includLng SOOs, had operatLons in these
felsds whlih called for little or no beneficLary participatLon.
21. The sustainability of the rehabilitatLon program, whlch partioularly
benefLtted the animal vaccine laboratory, the N'djamena slaughterhouse,
and the seed farm, is hard to assess largely due to the stlll uncertain
polLtiLal/military situatLon ln Chad. in additLon, several other factors
wlll have an impact on the sustainablilty of thLi program. First, the
sustainability of the vaccine laboratory and the slaughterhouse is linked
to both   gement and pollcy isues.  For the slaughterhouse, donors'
support h  provded both management assistance and addltlonal investments
to improve Its  ffLciency.  However, lt is lkely that priLatlsatLon of
the slaughterhouse, an option beLag considered by Government, is necesoary
,.4-~~~~;     



-6-
to sustain its activities. For the vacclne laboratory, operations have
largely improved, thanks to addltlonal support by donors and by the Bank
ln the context of the ongolng national Livestock Pro3eat. In the longer
term however, whether or not animal vaccine production wvi1 be self-
sustaining will depend on Government'u willingess to raise the fees
chrged to livestock owners by several times. Eseopt ln a few countries
such asDotswana, most vaccine production activltles in Bub-Saharan Africa
still depend on externl support to oustaln their operations. Second, the
activitles of the seed farm productlon are lkely to be sustalied, but
only provided that other supportlig measures, naly in the areas of
marketig  an  grliultural extension, are put in place. These supporting
activities are enalsioned ln the context of the Dank-finaned Agrlcultural
Services Project under prearWatlon.
22.  Bank missions contributed positively to project implementation by
deeloping supportlve worklng relationships and providing professlonal
advice.  Bank Staff's recon Lendatlon to iove project management was
effective.  Short-term missions by a specialist in flancial  nagnt
and adinisratlon proved approprlate both for the training of local staff
and for the overall operatlon of the P3W. Purtherm, the Dank's
contributlon to resolving implementation constraints was critical. For
instane, as soon as the Goverrmt decided to reimburse the gap in the
Special Aecount within an agreed-upon timetable (para 13), the Bank's
response was proPt in amnding the Credit Agreement. This led to an
ica  to 100% of the credlt flnancing for the remainlng disburments.
23.  The number, the copositlon, and the timLng of Bank missions were,
however, not appropriate, given the complexity of the project and
Government's limited organizational and administrative capacities. An
verage of only 1.75 misLsons per year by the task mnage were conducted
during project implementation, with two missions during the flrst year,
onemission duri each  of the subsequent two years, and three missions
duri  te  fourthtyeW.
X.  ^_4  Osd
24. The comblnation of an emergency rehabilitation program wlth
instLtutional dovlopuent actvites aear in rtrospect to have led to
an unduly    ple  project, with c     ntwhich are too different in
terms of the ti   reqursed for prr tLon. The emergency mature of the
rehabllitatLon  component ment that projet preparatLon  had to  be
completed quickly without formal appraisal work.  However, thorough
preparaiLon of the instLtutLonal component could have improved
implemntatLon by identifyLng key problm areas and specLfying priorlty
Actions.
25. The complexLty of overall project overall management lnvolving
several Ministrie, Departments and Co tt (paras. 9 and 10) appears
to havo bee  underestimated.  The rehabilitation componet should have
bee managed wlth less Governeet interfernce, e.g., usin an AGUIP type
of management. This would have reduced the consequences of bLases among
heads of miaLstries in favor of rehabllitatLon activitLes.
26.  The Project Management Unit operated in parallel with in-LiO
departmental servLacs which reinforced to sme extent the biase  of
ornment officials in favor of fLnancing rehabiltation actLvitLes.
These, ombined wlth Goernant's limited administratLve capacity, led to
an inffective monitoring and administration of the project's
institutional doelopmet actions, the pilot actlons, and the sector
planning coGmpent.



27.  The asount of technical assistance included in the project was too
large. Nine expatriate technical advisers were appointed for an average
contract of more than 30-monthe each, and over 30 man-months of short-term
consultant services wer included. Moreover, the potentLal contributLon
of the teohnl¢al assistance to upgrade LnstLtutional capacity was
handLeapped by: (i) the frustration of badly-paLid eLvll servants which led
to a partial rejectLon of the technlcal assLstantsl (LL) the lack of
organizatLonal arrangements to ensure effectlve follow-up from mLnistries
to  proposals made by the technical assistants.   Although  it was
anntclpated during project preparatLon that adjustments to project doeLgn
could be made durlng  lmplementatLon,  the  length of the technical
assistants' contracts were too constraining to make restructuring of the
project useful.
'J IPZrrSoI*PerI"ARCmac
28. Delays were encountered in submittLag the audlt reports, but the
Project Management Unit performed satisfactorily in terms of accounting
and financLal management.   The maLn shortcomings of the Borrower's
performance weret (i) failure to provLde counterpart funds in a timely
manners (iL) frequent staff turnover; (Wii) long delays in procurement due
to the lengthy and cumbersome review procedures imposed by the State
Central Control Office (IbCE); and (iv) delays in approving annual project
budgets by the Interministerial Management Committee.
29.   The Borrower prepared an extensive draft PCR (see Section ST).
Unfortunately the draft is largely descriptive and lacks analytical
content for the project achievements and impact. Moreover, tho draft was
prepaerd three months before credit closing, and the data was complete.
ZDA inforasd the Borrower of the shortcomings of the draft PCR and
reueated an updated version whlch, to thls date, has not been received.



PART  II,--RJECT REVIEW FROJM  LOROWE'S PESRPETIVE11
The present provisional PCR concerns the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project for which an IDA credit (1775.O.CD) for SDR 14.5 million was
granted to Chad in 1987.
The report was prepared by the Administrator of the Management Unit
in collaboration with the technical departments of the ministries involved
in implementation of the various project components.
In light of the project's complexity and of the inexperience of the
local capacities contributing to the PCR, the unusual step was taken of
requesting expert assistance in this task. The choice of Mr. Samba Tacko
Ndiaye, former internal auditor with the Management Unit, was not made at
random, since he was asked by the World Bank in 1989 to help prepare the
PCR on the Rural Projects Fund (Credit 664-CD). That report was completed
on schedule and sent to the World Bank.
In the case of the RSA Project Completion Report, the process was
reversed. In performing their ex-post evaluations, the local officials
involved in the PCR took account of certain provisions of the World Bank's
guidelines on Agricultural Rehabilitation Projects and of the advisory
assistance provided by Mr. Ndiaye.
All of the ex-post evaluations, taken as a whole, constitute the
Government's viewpoint on execution of the RSA project.
The report is based on:
-     reports and data prepared by the Management Unit;
-     the project document;
-     the summary minutes of credit negotiation and the Credit
Agreement (1775.O.CD);
-     the supervision reports;
-     the financial audit reports;
-     the consultant's recommendations to the Management Unit and
the OMVSD on administrative, financial, accounting and
computing organization;
-     the notes and records of the MU's internal auditor;
-     the subproject activities reports;
-     the end-of-mission reports of certain technical assistants
assigned to the technical departments of the ministries
involved in implementation of the various project components,
etc.
The Administrator of the Management Unit wishes to thank all those
who have participated, either locally or from a distance, in preparation
of this Project Completion Report.
I/ This text has been translated from the original French version and
i-s the Borrower's unedited product. Its contents are not attributable
to the Bank.



A. PVo0Jeat ForOulation aid Auraistal
30.   Background data on the aaricultural sector in Chad.    Agriculture
dominates the country's economy, providing a livelihood for about 85% of
its population. The performance of the sector has been severely affected
by civil war and by the ensuing degradation of infrastructure and
services, and has been further aggravated by drought and the collapse in
world prices for cotton, the main export crop. Planning and technical
services, infrastructure and project implementation capacity particularly
suffered.  The Government is committed to reverse this situation and to
realize the potential for increasing production in the medium to long
term,2V/ thanks to financing from IDA.
31.   Region. Having been designed on the basis of an initial assessment
of urgent rehabilitation needs, the project was organized very flexibly in
that provision was made for subsequent modificatic of its components as
required to reflect the findings of the supervision missions and the
proposals contained in the activities reports.
32.   Identification. The RSA project was identified and presented at the
Geneva Round Table in December 1985 and at the follow-up meeting in
November 1986, within the framework of the Chadian Government's emergency
plan for accelerating the recovery of the national economy.
33.   Prkuaratlon.  The project was prepared with the help of FAO-CP and
appraised in March 1986, in close collaboration with the Directors General
of the Ministries of Planning and of Rural Development, the chiefs of the
various departments concerned, and the Directors of ONDR and BIEP.
34.   AwrJsal.  There is no appraisal report as such.  The project file
contains all the principal working papers, including the agreed terms of
reference for resident experts, consultants and studies, and the technical
and organizational proposals for the pilot actions. /
35.   Necotiations. Negotiations took place in N'Djam6na from December 10
to 13, 1986.
36.   gbJec&Ji.  The project had two separate objectives:
-     stimulation of Chad's economic recovery through institutional
development and emergency rehabilitation of productive
facilities in the rural sector;
-     enhancement of the Government's planning capacity in this
sector.
37.   DeSerpti2n.  The RSA project as defined in the Credit Agreement
comprised:
-     a large technical assistance component
-     an emergency rehabilitation component
-     a pilot actions for technical development component
-     a subsector studies component
j/    Report No. P.4391-CD of the President of the World Bank to the
Executive Directors on a proposed development credit for an
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project, March 1987.
V     Project working paper (World Bank).



- 10 -
38.   ProNect S2t.  The total project cost, net of taxes, was estimated
at the time of preparation at US$16.8 million, or approximately SDR 13.66
million. It was subsequently increased to US17.8 million, or 8DR 14.5
million.
39.   Sources of financing.  IDA was initially committed to finance $16.6
million of the project cost and the Chadian Government US$0.2 million.
During negotiations, IDA's participation was increased to US$17.8 million,
or SDR 14.5 million, while that of the Government remained at US$0.2
million.
40.   Credit breakdown by cateaorv of exyendLtur.4/
SDR               US$               CFAF
1.  Civil works              170,000            209,100            62,730,000
2.  Vehicles, equipment   2,160,000           2,656,800           797,040,000
and spare pirts
3.  Consultants'           5,710,000          7,023,300         2,106,990,000
services, studies and
training
4.  operating costs        1,170,000          1,439,100           431,730,00G
5. Emergency fund
(a) civil works           1,080,000          1,328,400           398,520,000
(b) equipment and           500,000            615,000           184,500,000
spare parts for public
sector enterprises*
(c) equipment and           420,000            516,600           154,980,000
spare parts for rural
development services*
(d) consultants'            170,000            209,100            62,730,000
services
(s) operating costs**       340,000            418,200           125,460,000
6.  Refunding of PPF         420,000            516,600           154,980,000
advance
7.  Unallocated            2.360.000          2870.40.000
TOTAL            14,500,000         17,835,000         5,350,500,000
Translator's Notess
*     The French drafter has used the term "part disponible," which
translates as "available share," and not as "Ppare parts" (Credit
Agreement).
**    The French phrase used here translates as "cost of using the
equipment," and not as "operating costs" (Credit Agreement)
4/ ThiB reflects the original credit breakdown.



- 11 -
At the tim of negotiations, the SDR was quoted at US$1.23 and the dollar
at CIA? 345, that rate chaning to C0A1' 300 during project execution to
take account of fluctuations in the dollar.
41.  Recurren gggls. After cloaure of the credit, initially scheduled
for December 31, 1991 and then postponed to March 31, 1992, the recurrent
project costs, estimated at US$300,000, wero to be covered by self-
finaced operations or taken over by subsequent IDA yrojects.
B. EWJot Wttloa
42.    t        Although the project was slated to start in 1987, actual
start-up did not take place until 1988 with the original objectives and
components, because of various administrative, legal, financial, human and
technical problems originatLng both internally and externally (IDA and
Goverment).
43.  tSduLcatis-   Two major modifications were noted.  The first
concerned the revolving fund, and the second the extension of the
completion dates and the closing dates for disbursement OAn certain items
(agricultural research, soils, water and plant analysis laboratory, seed
production).
44.   I moJgM"a&1cn timetable* Project implementation was scheduled over
a period of 30 monthe for the technical asistance and pilot action
como=nents, 23 amonths for the subsector studies (A, a, C .and 0) component,
and 12 months for the emergency rehabilitation component. It was noted
that only the subsector studies component was executed more or less to
schodule, thunks to the PPF. This delay wa due in part to IDA's blockage
of the speal  account, intervention by ZOCG  and the Intermlnistry
Monitoring Comalttee, and the events of November/December 1990. The World
Bank's refusal to grant advance funds to the subprojects for works in the
interior (&ls).
45.  CrdLt 1sget&ma.  The Ozdo              a authorizing the loan and
ratifying  the credit agreement were publishd by the aovernment on
December 15, 1987 and recorded,              under the numbers 026/PR/87
and 027/PR/87.  The Credit ag       t  as    ned on July 1S, 1987 and
besam effective on January 12, 1988.
46.  ZUttSn  in glace of  roiect resources.  In August 1986, an advance
in the equivalent of US$500,000 wa granted by IDA to the Gveornebnt from
the Project Preparation Facility (PPr credit P. 396 CD) to cover essential
project yreparation-related expenditures. Thanks to this advance it was
possible to make a payment of 25% on contract no. 007/87/IDA for studies
A and D, and of 15% on studies B and C, and also to finance the first
support isLsion to the Management Unit to help aft up an administrative,
financial and accounting organization Consistent with the complexlty of
the RfA project. These paymnts represented a total of CMA? 112,449,675
(contract 007/87/IDA), CFAP 53,583,925  (contract 008/87/1DA),   CIAF
54,813,750 (a1a), and support to the Management Units CPAU 4,052,000.
47.  The key pearsnnel assigned to the technical assistance coMponent at
MDR, NEEP and the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, were recruited on
schedule, except for the experts in seed production, animal hudbandry and
afforestation, in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Local
staff were recruited as and when the need arose.
48.  The Disbursements Division of the Loan Departmnt set a 1etter to
the Minister of Planning and Cooperation on January 28, 1988, enclosing
two schedules to Credit Agreement 1775..0CD and a certified  Istteent of
expenditure form. Schedule 1 highlighted the catgories of items, the
description of the categories, and lastly the percentage of expenditures
to  e financed by IDA in foreign exchange and in local currency.
..~~~~~~ .,                                   S 



- 12 -
schedule 2 focused on the revolving fund mechaniam, the currency of the
account, its domiciliatSonp the initial deposlt, access to the account,
replenishments, admissible expenses, regularity of replenishment requests,
the balance of the spcial account, closing of the special account, any
interest accrued, and the funds authorized for deposit in the special
account. The certified statement of expenditures form was to be used for
data to be furnished to IDA concerning expendituree of less than US$20,000
equivalent.
49.  On March 3, 1988, the Disbursements Division was authorized to
credit th special account opened at the NWDjamna branch of the STCD with
the sum of CPa? 70 million, transferred to the account on March 15, 1988
by the Bank's technical staff. The first disbursements were effected 15
days following this transfer to finance the revolving fund. Following a
Goven ment request dated May 5, 1988, IDA increased the authorized amount
of the special account from CFAF 70 million to ClFA 200 million, effective
May 12, 1988. The initial amount was judged inadequate in view of the
volume of expenditures to be comiitted locally during project start-up.
50.   The Chadian Government contributed ClAF 143.6 million instead of
CFAF 70 million to project financing. The main reason for this was that
the initial counterpart sum  had been underestimated.   Since this
modiflcation was not made in time, the Management unit, in the interests
of cost-effectiveness, decided to use Special Account funds right from
project start-up to finance all of the subproject operating expenditures.
This was regarded by the Disbursements Division as contrary to the
provisions of the Credit Agreement, in particular those of Schedule 1,
which establishes the percentages of xpenditure  ligible for financing
under Credit 177S.O.CD, and those of paragraphs Sections I and VI of
Schedule 5, concerning use of the apecial Account.  In cseuence, the
account was blocked by the Disbursements Division from July 1989 to July
1990. Wishing to regularize the situation, ID asked the UcveenA n to
pay back into the Special Account the amount illegally removed from it,
following a repayment schedule that enabled the account to be unblocked
upon payment of the first installment, and also to amend the provisions of
Schedule 2 to the Credit Agreement, thereby providing for IDA financing of
100% of the  roject e
51.       nIstrti*<Xmpim"=. The involvement of several ministries
and their executing agencies in the various project components led to the
creation of an Int rministerlal Managing Committee to administer the
Project Management Unit.   This committee was created by Decare  No.
073/1f/MaPR/PLlW/87 on May 26, 1987, enacted in the Council of MLnisters
at the proposal of the Minister Delegated to the Presidency of the
Republic with Responsibility for Planning. Tt comprised the Directors
General of the Ministries involved in project execution, and was chaired
by the Director General of the Mlnistry of Planning and Cooperation.
52.  During project execution, a project monitoring committee [Coeit6 de
Su1vi du Projetj was set up at the ministerial level.
53. Requests for financing under the emergency rehabilitation componeft
were reviewed and approved by an "investment committee."
54.* Tahni4al o5n=Lmatiow' * The technical exeoution of the various
project components was entrusted to specialLzed local agenaies:
-    Pilot actions*'
PC. (small-scale irrigated perimeters alog the Chari
river) and wadis in Xansm departments to ONDR;
water points maintenances   to OHVJP (Water Points
Maintenance DLvision);



- 13 -
*    soils, plant and water analysis laboratorys  to the
Agricultural  esearch Offics  (Directorate Genral of
*  ~arioulture) I
-     institutional  devlopent  MADR  (Directorate  Ooneral of
agrwiculture) I
-     institutionl  delopnt    P   (Directorate  General of
Livestock); 
-     %natitutional developmnt BD5P (Dlrectorate General RI3P)i
-    berogency rehabilltation (NP, MR, Ministry of Planning and
Cooperation).
55.   inawiaL and accountin    n       t of the     eet. he project'
f inancia  and accounting  a        was carried out on a consoldated
basis by a   gen Unit headed by a National Director appointed by
DeCree 147/ /Mb of August 27, 1987, enacted in Council of Ministers. In
itg daily operations, the Directo" of the No was asisted bys
-     an assistant director
-     a management auditor
-     a chief accountant
-     an internl auditor (expatriate)
-     accounting clerks and support staff (secretari,es drlvers,
messnger, etc.)
56.  The consolidated poject accounts were kept by the Maagemnt Unit
in accordance with the rules and practice  of double-entry bookkeepig.
The 03 duplicating system [syste par d4aZoque O0BO3 was cho   by the
IM  Director with 1DA's approval.  It was set up by a conult   in
administratie and financial organization, with the cooperation of MU
staf. Supported by the necessary documentation, this acconting system
tracked all of the income and ependiture transactions taking place
betwee October I each year and the followinSeptmr 30.
57.  No       I       were effected by the acounting service without due
auth     tion from the M mangement auditor, and from the 1005, for local
payments. Direct payments required only the endorsemet, of the
manageme  auditor, the chief accoutant, and the signature of the NU
Director.
56.  zxpenditures were comitted by the heads of the e uting agecie
(subprojects) who had to bear in mind certain constraints, such as:
-    budgetary restrictions
-    the fact that those  xpnture had to correspond to a work
program examined and approved by the project 0magement bodies
(CTIG, CIS, CZ and IDA)
-     if the expenditures were contract related, the contracts
needed to be approv  regularly by the competent agencies.
59.  Payment of any minor currnt expenditures was authorized by the
adilnistrators of the advance funds. or all other expenditures, the
supporting documents were forwarded, with a transmission note, to the MU,
which  then  performed  the  necessary  verifications.   Paymats  were
authorizd by the        ment Auditor, whose endorement wa  required
before a paymt order ould   issued. For the replenshment of advance
funds, the administrators of the funds wee required to provide evidence
of previoAu  espnditurs, and relenishment was offocted by means of a
payment order.
"J . ..



- 14 -
60.  111WAw0htI  l         Uierarchical link  existed mong the different
ministries and theiz executiLg  geSlies, but there were no such lir*s
betwee  the IM  md the exectLng agencLes  for the varLous comWonents
61.  Functional lin_ts.   Functional links were establshed  dlrectly
between the iiii  ireotor and the deAsignand  executing agencies.  Taking
these functional links into  account, the MU decided to sign a number of
protocol with the excoutLag agencies for the  aarious proe  components.
The principal .im of these protocols was to establih  a peanent
contractual framework and to defLne the responsblities of the MU and of
the executing agencies for the dlfferent components.
62.  Poig?t  SgWisin bv IDA.   To ensure that the project was
ipmd  satisfactorily and In a mnner conducive to the acco1ihment
of ts objectLves,  DA sent out regular supervioson mis       to monltor
the    ults and, ln partLiular, to arcertaLn that the funds were beLng
spet as agreed at the time of signature of the Credt Agreement.
63.  PrenaratL   of activLte  rs  ort.  The NU deslgned a form for
reporting on the progress of the project at quarterly, semiannual and
annual intervals, and this was sent for reference to the executLng
agencies for the various project components. This form was not submitted
to the project managing committees (CTZG, CIS, CZ and AID) for reviw or
approval.
64.  All the executing agencLes, exeopt for the MU, set in their
progrss reports, but thes  dld not gwenrally follow the suggested form.
These reports wer not comnoldated at the MU for IDA after they we
dupLated for the agencies and the project managing committees.  The
Sankl positLon on the MNUs technical role was the main reaon for this.
According to IDA, the MU was not qualLfied to deal with the technical
problem of the executLAg agencies.
65.  Proumen  of cods and erLcon. Overall, procurae t of goods
nd serviLes  and of civil works and perfon   of t   rectiv
contracts proceeded in a mannr acceptable to  IDA and the Can
authorLtLes concernd. The World Dank's OuLdelines for Pzocure t were
not appLied because of the spwifLc nature of the project an  of Chadian
regulations in effeft in this are. The contracts were genally ao
by the competent Chadian authorLtLes.  lo contract was started        a
statement of no objection from  IDA.  The technical components wer
prepae  by the project" a techncal eaxcuting agencies (subprojects), and
sent on to the MU for the drafting of the various documets.
c. 
66.  Sumirv of main roleat obectives. The AgrLcultural Pehabilitation
Project was designed within the context of the efforts being mde to
retore agricultural development following the literruptions over the
period 1979-82 and followin  a 1ng period of drought in 1984.  it
conssted of a package of emergency measures designed on the one hand to
strenghen the instLtutlons resonible for management of the agrLiultural
sector and on the othe to lead to preaatlon of a development strategy
for that sector and to the study of projects suLtable for submission to
internatioal donors. Lastly, the project proavided for an Lategrated
approach to the subeotors of agricultural, lilvestock and forest
resourc", the only rational alternative ia the fragLie environmet of
this lahelian country.
67.  -12  itU    "'i "". The resident experts required for the various
components (agrLiultural research, sed productlon, agrlcultural extension
ad trn, monitoriAg and evaluation of livestock production,, financial



- 15 -
aalysis, preparation and organization of rural projects) were recruited.
one of these, however, the f ancial analysis expert, resigned before the
end of his 30-month contract fr personal reasons.
68.  Theme exel#rts wee recruited within the framework of two major
contracts  *siv#d  between  the  consulting  firm  of  Louis  Berger
Zuternational, BDPA-SCZT-AGR?, and the Chadian Goverrment, in accordance
with IDA and Government procedures. Some of them left and-of-mission
reports on which, regrettably, no comAnts from the user departments were
recorded.
69.  Consultants were hired, including one resident (a UNV specializing
ln financial nalysis), for the administrative, financial and accounting
organization of the MU.
70.   The local personnel made available to the p-oject were trained
abroad in widely varied fields associated wlth development project
implementation.   The vehicles and key item  of equipment were also
purchased and made available to the user departments. During the events
of November/December 1990 some of these assets were lootedt these were
replaced, as an exceptional concession, ln order to enable the technical
deparme  ts concerned to carry on their respective activities.   The
buildings allocated to the project were rehabilitated.
71.  Solo=  rehaitalLton. Most of the planned investments for the
Farcha Laboratory for Livestock Vaccine Production and the Farcha Abattoir
did actually take place, despite the delay.
72.  The civil works planned by the technical departments of the Ministry
of Rural Development for the country's interior were carried out. The
related equipment was also made available to the local officials.
73.  Considerable work wa done in the area of village boreholes and
rehabilitation of administrative buidings.
74.  The ONV8D recived a large operating subsidy under the project.
certain costs relative to the liquidation of this Office were also covered
by the project following the decision of the Government and the statement
of no objection frm IDA.
75.  Subsector           Th.&g. Th following studies were carried outs
A     studies in support of production evaluation and economic and
technical study for the expansiaon and diversification of crop
production;
B     studies in support of evaluation of the national herd and
study of livestock productivity and prospects for expansion of
marketing of live animals and of livestock products:
C     forestry development potential and resource onservation: ad
D     agricultural creit.
Thes  studies were completed on  chedule and were commeted on by the
technical depatme   involvd.  Iowever, they were not subjected to a
higher-level (Government) review for rational application of the different
paramees mentioned by the authors in their re cnendations.
76.  Pilot action. Two major studies concerning diagnosis of the PlC.
and wadi components were carried out by local  9ancies (ONMD, B31P,
Directorate Generalof the mm0, etc.)-
. 1
.   .   .            ..             .        .    .      ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



- 16 -
77.  The national policy of water points maintenance was better defined
by the Govrnment and satisfactorily grasped by the donors and the
inhabitat concerned.
78.  Te soils, plant and water analysis laboratory has received its most
essential equipment and is awaiting deliveries of products in order to get
to work.
79.   *b c .   Jobs at both the lnternational and national levels
were financed under the project, as well as equipment purchase. and the
execution of certain civil works.
80.  Adi of acagun.   The project accounts were audited by two
independent fime of fiancial auditors, as required by IDA. During these
audits, the strengths and weaknesses of project execu4 ion were brought to
the attention of the Director of the NO (Government, nwd IDA (finncing
agncy) by the auditors.
81. _.SuRK miM     fr 0eR&sIM mif    The MU, which was
responsible for handling the consolidated project accounts, made the
transition from the duplication [d6ca.que] to the computerized system in
xecord tim., thanks to the consultant s experience in the area of
administrative, fnancial and accounting organizatlon.
82.  The administrative and financial monitorLng of the activities of the
OMD  was also performed by the same consultant, who had contracts with
the HU and the OMV8D.
83.  The Directorate General of the NDR called upon BDPA-SC3T-AGvR to put
in place the preliminary phasos of the project monitoring and evaluation
unit of the MDR.
84.  The water points maintenance division signtd a contract with SURGS%P
for use of a village water system extension agent, who played an extremely
key role in ensuring the satisfactory progress of the water points
maintenance component.
as.   Q                     A d  at the date of completio   of the components
(subsetor studies, small-scale lrrigation (P1Cs) and wadi pilot actions,
water points maintenance pilot actions, agricultural statistics, livestock
statistics, herd monitoring and evaluation,  etc.) the total amount of
credit disbursed was 8DR 9,131,806.76 out of a total of SOR 14,500,000,
broken down as followss
*    FUND                       475,953.20
*    unallocated                      0.00
1.   Civil works                      288,535.21
2.    Vehicles, equipment, spare      707,353.51
parts
3.    Consultants' services,        S,OS8,963.37
studies
4.   A.  op. cost                     792,888.73
S.  op. cost                    252,837.51
C.  op. cost                     6_,096.05
5B.                                     9,960.05
SA.   Civil works                     494,543.34
S.    Spare parts (public sector)      48,068.48
C.    Spare parts (rural sector)        9,306.28
D.    Consultants' services            S9,263.43
S.1  op. cost                        S37,047.67  -
3.2  op. cost                         71,380.08
z.3  op. cost                              QeOO
6.    Refinancing of PIP.P.           264,608.44
Leving a remainder of SDR           S,368,193.24
gjl. The sorrower's part of this report was dated December 31 1991,



- 17
therefore theoe figures were compiled long before the last disbursement,
whlch took place on August 4, 1992. This accounts for any discrepancy.
86.      _      =aUs of ggMLUtme.  Overall, all of the Governments major
commitmats were honored.
D. ReviLe af "A Perom-ange
4
87.  On  _i nectiv  side. Freezing of the special account had several
consequencews
refusal on the part of the local suppliers to execute project-
related orders because of unpaid billes
no field missions were conducted by the tejhnicians;
wages and compensation were not spared by this cash-flow
situation;
IDA refused to acknowledge the poor wording of the Credit
Agreement, particularly in the financial part;
comitment of expenditures for contingencies without the MU's
opinion;
delays in exchanges of important correspondence betwen
Wasbington and N'Djamna;
the recormendations of the supervision missions (much more in
the nature of directives).
S8.  On the noitive dLde.
-     increase in the amount of the revolving fund;
-    expansion of the various components (soils, plants and water
analysis laboratory, seed production, agricultural research);
-     statement of no objection to replacement of the physical plant
looted during the events of November/December 1990;
-     amendment to Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement;
-     assistance from IDA in preparation of the MA project.
89.  -      The expatriate technical assistants hired by the Government
should be more involved at those stages of development project
preparation   that   are   considered   crucial   (design,
identification, preparation and appraisal), so that the phases
of project negotiation and implementation can be better
prepared;
The Chadian counterpatt staff need to be made more aware of
their role in the 'application of IDA's guidelines, so that
good relations with' IDA may be maintained;
the Chadian officials ned to be motivated by reasonable
material incentives to guaranteo their greater participation
in project execution;
,, - .            ,      '                  .   .    ' '  O.,  t



- 16 -
-    rigorous and egfficient mangemt is a basic prorequisite for
the success of a project, but steps must be taken to esure
that the Goverrnent supervisory machnism put in place is not
oumersome or likely to gnerate long delays;
-    ongoing assessent of the pwformnce of the technical
aasLstance team in light of the term of regerence;
-    better monitoring  of  IDA  supervision  missions  by the
authorLties concorned (before, during and after the missions) I
-    enstabIlhment of periodic progress reports upon completion of
each predetermined phase;
-    better clrculation of information concerni  the various
project phases;
-    advantage of having 22 subprojects managed by the KU;
-    efforts by the Goverment to find fiancing for continuation
of the programs under the various Rs& Project componets;
-    ongoig supervision and protection of project assets.
90.         __t _8&_I_
=    start preparation of future project completion reports based
n ongoing monitoring of the progress made, set ap&inst the
initial objectivest
-    entrust drafting of the PoRs to Chadian coanttees composed of
key indivLduals, under the supervision of the project
maagr.



19
4 Q
i)   Livestock Development          309-CD       2.2/2.2         72-77
ii)  Drought Relief Fund            445-CD       2.0/2.0         74-76
1i4.) Sateguil-Derssia              489-CD      iS.S/15.1        74-87
iv)  Lake Chad Polders              592-CD       5.0/3.8       75-80-84
v)   Rural Projects Fund            664-CD       12.0/12.0     77-8S-88
vi)  Imergency Cotton Program      1716-CD       15.0/15.0       87-89
vL) National Livestock            1912-CD       18.6/-          89-95
2.        Proleact Timetable
),  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
Identification                       _                      11/85
Preparation                      _                     12/85 to 02/86
Appraisal                                                   03/86
Credit Negotiations              12/12/86                 12/12/86
Board Approval                   03/31/ 87                03/31/87
Credit Agreement                 07/15/87                 07/15/87
Credit Effectiveness             07/31/87                 01/12/88
Completion                       06/30/91                 12/31/91
closing                          12/31/91                 03/31/92
There was a three-month extension of the closing date to Complete on-
going works for the sed multiplication component.
.                               



- 20 -
3.        CRdit Dimbursnevents
Cumulastive IBt)nated and Actual- DBuburemnents
(USS millieln)
Appraisal
Nutimnate    1.5   3.4  5.8   8.2  10.7  13.2   15.1  16.4   17.4  1g.8
Actual       3.6   5.2  7.0   8.3  10.5  11.7   12.4  14.8   14.9  16.3
Actual as
of % of      18%   26%  35%   42%  53%   59%    63%   74%    75%k  82%
Credit
Amount                  _____
21
20
Is
17
is
11
10
6
2
less         logo        10. e9                   1902
The above table shows clearly the negative Impact on disburnoewnts
resulting from the increasingj role of lGCE in 1989 and the civil unrest La
late 1990.



- 21 -
There was no sec8ific key indicator defined at   rasal.
.,.::  : 5 . i   .  :.    :(:t; apprisal)  . § at closing)
4:.::. *:t: ': f ll; lSL ' ' r -  fj   g ......    . 19S6)  '(1. ...... .,  ......992)
- Resident experts                273 man months       230 man months
- Consulting gervices             63 man months         30 man months
EMernsn   Rehabilitation of
todutive facilities
- tarcha vaccine laboratory  equipment renewal        done with cofin.
PAC and FED
- Farcha abattoir             equipment renewal       done with cofin.
FED, FAC, & CCCE
- Seed farmw                  training, equipment     completed
- Pars development            upon request            canceled
manufacture
- Rural development           equipment, vehicles
services                    and building,           completed
- Rural water points
. Logone                    60 boreholes            completed
. Zouar area                6 boreholes             completed
Pilot Ation
- Small-scale irrigation      Areas 150 ha
Nb. farm: 250           canceled
- Wadi development            Areas 60 ha
.b. farms 250           canceled
- Rural water points          User groups nbs:110     achieved
maintenance program         training of private
blacksmithsl            done
cost recovery &
private maintenance
policy measures         done
- Water and soil laboratory  construction,            rehabilitation
equipment, training     done
sector Plar.uina
- Data collection services   training, equipmnt       done
basic survey in the
Soudanian zone          completed
- Key sub-sector studies      * crop production &
diversification       completed
. animal production
processing, marketing   completed
.  forest production &
resource conservation   completed
.  rural credit         completed
G   v2_-                            'j.  '-



- 22-
S.         Psoge Colts and Winapning
to
3
2
0
ii~~ S
pF 87-35-U             FT t9-90               py go-st
A4reuItussI R.ftbItln Prnjat
CMI WtIa   I    TA & TrnR  E    O:.-tIn Cost        V hkius-3Wlpms¶t
% of 3xre.nLtures b-,Catgngies for sagh Fiscal  ea
Y001  mCuwi4qmxf2         1G~~S
Qof Toal jx nditurs b  Cateargies



- 23 -
S.1       Zgt jce  2g
- Civil Works                    1,250,000                  970,496
- Vehicles, Equipment            3,080,000                  764,728
- TA, Consultancies, &           6,300,000                5,382,83S
Training
_ operatin  Cost                 1,510.000                1,715,250
S.2       Proiaot Financing
Th project was to be financed 99% by the IDA credit and the remainder,
for local salaries and operating costs, by the Government (CFAP 70 million or
US$0.2 million eWivalent). Actually, the Government contributed a total of
US$0.4 million equivalent.
6.        Proleet Remulta
Direct Benefites    hA
Economic Impact:    NA
Financial Impacts   NA
;e~~w                                          



- 24 -
7.             _of Co ints
~~~~ _        .   .  .         *. ..  . . 
Te Dorower shalls
3.03 (b)      - quarterly replenish the Special         always met
Account in an amount of at least five     tardily.
million CPF (CFAF 5,000,000) up to an
aggrgate amount of seventy mllion CPA?
(Cp 70.000.000)1
3.05          - not later than December 31, 1987,       met.
introduce regulations and institutional
arrangements to recover water points
maintenance costs;
3.07 (a)      - maintain the activities of the NU of    Met.
the Rural Projects lund Project
established under Cr 664 CD;
3.07 (c)      - cause MU to coordinate annual work      met, but
program  and budgets and submit to IDA    ineffectivel
annual work programs    budgets not       always met
later than August 31 of each year;        tardily.
3.07 (d)      - cause MU to submit to IDA, not later    met, January
than May 31, 1987, administrative         1988.
nt  betwen M    e    Unit and
ONDR, OV, BIll, NHP, and MADRI
4.01 (a)      - cause NU to maiatain separate accounts  met.
for subprojectsl
4.01 (b) (i)    have the recards and acconts            amt.
including those for the Spec"l Account
for each fiscal year auditedl
4.01 (b)(ii)  - furnish to IDA uot later than six       _mt.
months after the end of fiscal year a
certified cop of the report of such
audit;
4.01 (c)      - for all expenditure made on the basis  met, but major
of statemnts of expenditure, cause to    documentation
be maintained records and accounts and    los sesduring
enour that such records and accounts      December 1990
are included in the annual audit;         events.
Schedule 1    - Disbursement condition                  met, but major
problem due
to inadeate
plan.
Schedule 3    Procuremnt condiLtions                    mt.
_ _ "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 25 -
8.        MM of Bank leoure
A. SAf f inm (1)
Preparation    .4    52.5 10.4  2.0 10.7
Apaisal                              12.8 18.6
Supervision -                              6.3 21.7 lb.1 18.1 16.4 1O.S
total          0.4   52.5 10.4  2.0 23.5 24.9 21.7 15.1 18.1 16.4 10.5
PrwaE otS    - 76;1 Esasa1 - 31.4; Euag .nuiAn - 88.1.
(1) Input an staff weeks. These flgures do not fully reconcile with Mission
Data (me below).
8. MJIAM1/
item          Konth   no. of  No. of    Date of  Performance Type of
/Year   Weeks   Person    Report    Rating        Problems
Appraisal        03/86    4       5          04/02/86
supervision 1   04/88     3       1 (A)      O5/24/88    2           3
Supervision 2    12/88    4       1 (A)      01/12/89     2          N
Supervision 3    10/89    4       1 (AX)    12/21/89      3          PUT
Supervision 4   05/90    4        1 (A)      06/06/90     3          Fm
Supervision 5   05/91     1       1 (A)      05/06/91     3          rPM
Supervision 6   08/91    3        1 (A)      08/26/91    2           F
supervision 7   12/91     1       1 (A)      01/09/92     2          34
Baat: Frm the above table, it can be rem that during the 1"t third of the
iplementation cycle, when overall project managemnt was deteriorating and
fiacg was nr above the moderate problem levels, no specific action had
been ta      Major problem  indee  arose from the political uncertainty,
however, the Dank should have addressed the issue of lAose project managment
and heavy and inadequate state control more forcefully.
Vj Compiled from Supervision Reorts. These figures do not fully reconcile
with staff input (se above).
2/ Specialization  rePresenteds  S-conomist A-Agriclturalist.
:  1 -" pro1blem free or minor problems;  2 - moderate problem; 3  m major
problem.
&/ F *  inancial;l 3  Managerial; P - Political; T  Technical.
.. .               
a    '                     '' U-f '; ,.X.      '    d  -       ).,.,~ .<    4.'   .,.  



