Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1775 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 15, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1775 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1987, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MU" or "Management Unit" means the unit referred to under Section 3.07 
of this Agreement;
(b)
"BIEP" means the Bureau Interministeriel des Etudes et de la 
Programmation, the Interministerial Rural Planning Office of the Borrower;
(c)
"BTCD" means the Banque Tchadienne de Credit et de Depots of the 
Borrower;
(d)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(e)
"MADR" means the Ministere de l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural, 
the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for Agriculture and Rural Development;
(f)
"MEHP" means the Ministere de l'Elevage et de l'Hydraulique Pastorale, 
the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for Livestock and Water Development;
(g)
"MTE" means the Ministere du Tourisme et de l'Environnement, the Ministry 
of the Borrower responsible for Tourism and the Environment;
(h)
"ONDR" means the Office National de Developpement Rural, the National 
Office of rural Development of the Borrower;
(i)
"ONHPV" means the Office National de l'Hydraulique Pastorale et 
Villageoise, the National Office for Village and Pastoral Water Development of the 
Borrower;
(j)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;
(k)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated 
October 10, 1986 and November 4, 1986, between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special account in BTCD on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled. 
Page  3
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 
1997, and ending December 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on December 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent 
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby Specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project jointly through MADR, BIEP, MEHP and MTE with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without any limitation or restrictions upon any of its obligations 
under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and 
thereafter maintain for purposes of the Project, a Project Account in BTCD for payment 
of expenditures under the Project not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; an
(b)
in addition to the initial deposit referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of 
this Agreement, quarterly replenish the Project Account in an amount of at least five 
million CFAF (CFAF 5,000,000) up to an aggregate amount of seventy million CFAF (CFAF 
70,000,000), so that the funds available in such Project Account shall at all times be 
sufficient to permit timely and efficient execution of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) select any additional Emergency 
Rehabilitation Actions referred to under Part B (3) of the Project in accordance with 
Page  4
the eligibility criteria specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) submit to the 
Association for prior approval any Emergency Rehabilitation Action for public sector 
enterprises exceeding the equivalent of $100,000; and (iii) submit to the Association 
for prior approval any Emergency Rehabilitation Action for MADR and MEHP services 
referred to under Part B (3) of the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General 
Conditions the Borrower and the Association shall, twice a year, exchange views on the 
implementation of the Project as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. One month 
prior to each such exchange of  views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
for its review and comment a progress report on the implementation of the Project, 
including the implementation of Emergency Rehabilitation Actions in such details as 
the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1987, introduce 
regulations and make institutional arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, to 
recover water points maintenance costs, and investment and maintenance costs of 
collective equipments financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) submit to the Association for comments the 
work plans and training programs prepared by all consultants and experts financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit within six months of their respective date of 
employment; and (b) update said work plans and 
training programs as part of the exchange of views provided for under Section 3.04 (b) 
of this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain the activities of the Management Unit of the Rural Projects Fund 
Project (MU), established under Cr 664 CD under the "tutelle" of the Planning Ministry 
attached to the Office of the President, and extend them in order to monitor the 
implementation of the Project as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(b)
employ for MU a Deputy Director, an Accountant and an Administrator for 
Part B of the Project, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project;
(c)
cause MU to coordinate the annual work programs and budgets for the 
Project among MADR, MEHP, MTE and BIEP, and to furnish to the Association for 
information and comments not later than August 31 of each year said work programs and 
budgets, including details on expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
for Part B of the Project; and
(d)
cause MU to submit to the Association for prior approval, not later than 
May 31, 1987, administrative arrangements entered into between MU and: (i) ONDR, and 
the rural construction service of MADR for the provision of services related to the 
pilot actions referred to under Parts C (1) and C (2) of the Project; (ii) ONHPV for 
the maintenance of water-points referred to under Part C (3) of the Project; (iii) 
BIEP for sub-sector studies referred to under Part A (3) (c) of the Project; and (iv) 
MEHP and MADR for technical assistance.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
Page  5
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the completion of the audit 
for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that the Borrower or any other 
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or 
disestablishment of MU or for changing its "tutelle" or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified: any events specified in Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date;
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the account referred to under Section 3.03 of this Agreement has been 
opened with an initial deposit of ten million CFAF (CFAF 10,000,000);
(b)
the Borrower has extended the terms of reference of MU, as provided under 
Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement, so as to entrust it with the administration of the 
implementation of the Project; and
(c)
the Borrower has signed a contract with a consulting firm, satisfactory 
to the Association, for the recruitment of resident experts under Part A of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Page  6
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower in charge of planning is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning attached to
   the Office of the President
BP 286
N'DJamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLAN
5201KD
N'DJamena
5248KD
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Mahamat Ali Adoum
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Page  7
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                             Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                      SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                      170,000        100% of foreign
    (except for                                     expenditures and
    Part B of the                                   95% of local
    Project)                                        expenditures
(2) Vehicles,
              2,160,000        100% of foreign
    equipment and                                   expenditures and
    spare parts                                     95% of local
    (except for                                     expenditures
    Part B of the
    Project)
(3) Consultants'                   5,710,000        100% of foreign
    studies,                                        expenditures and
    training and                                    95% of local
    services                                        expenditures
    (except for
    Part B of the
    Project)
(4) Operating                      1,170,000        95% for with-
    costs (except                                   drawals up to an
    for Part B of                                   aggregate amount
    the Project)                                    equivalent to
                                                    700,000; 60%
                                                    for withdrawals
                                                    up to an aggre-
                                                    gate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    1,000,000; and
                                                    30% for with-
                                                    drawals up to an
                                                    aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    1,170,000
(5) Part B of the
    Project:
    Emergency
    Rehabilitation
    Actions
    (a) civil works                1,080,000        100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures and
                                                    95% of local ex-
                                                    penditures
    (b) equipment and                500,000        100% of foreign
        spare parts                                 expenditures and
        for public                                  95% of local ex-
        sector enter-                               penditures
        prises
    (c) equipment and                420,000        100% of foreign
        spare parts                                 expenditures and
        for rural                                   95% of local ex-
Page  8
        development                                 penditures
        services
    (d) Consultants                  170,000        100% of foreign
        services                                    expenditures and
                                                    95% of local ex-
                                                    penditures
    (e) operating                    340,000        95% for with-
        costs                                       drawals up to an
                                                    aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    210,000; 60%
                                                    for withdrawals
                                                    up to an aggre-
                                                    gate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    300,000; and
                                                    30% for with-
                                                    drawals up to an
                                                    aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    340,000
(6) Refunding of                     420,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                                suant to Section
    tion Advance                                    2.02 (c) of this
                                                    Agreement
(7) Unallocated                    2,360,000
        TOTAL                     14,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
"Operating Costs" means all costs associated with the Project including 
local personnel salaries, and maintenance of vehicles, equipment and office 
facilities.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: (i) expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (ii) expenditures under Categories (5) (a), (b), (d) and (e) exceeding 
the equivalent of $100,000 unless the  Association has approved the additional 
Emergency Rehabilitation Actions for public sector enterprises in accordance with 
Section 3.04 (a)(ii) and Schedule 4 Part I to this Agreement; and (iii) expenditures 
under Category (5) (c) unless the Association has approved the additional Emergency 
Rehabilitation Actions for MADR's and MEHP's services in accordance with Section 3.04 
(a)(iii) and Schedule 4 Part II to this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to stimulate the Borrower's economic 
recovery through institutional development and emergency rehabilitation of the 
agricultural sector's productive facilities; and (ii) to enhance the Borrower's 
Page  9
planning capacity in the sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development and Sector Planning
 
1.
MADR: strengthening of MADR's technical departments through the design and 
implementation of agricultural and rural development policies and preparation of 
training programs for key national staff, the acquisition of vehicles, equipment, and 
office facilities.
2.
MEHP: improving livestock productivity through the design and implementation of 
livestock policies and the preparation of training programs for key national staff, 
the acquisition of vehicles, equipment and office facilities.
3.
BIEP: preparation of priority rural development projects through:
 
(a)
development of procedures for accelerating implementation of new 
projects;
(b)
preparation of financial, budgeting analysis and audit procedures of 
rural development projects;
(c)
studies on potential for: (i) diversification and expansion of crop 
production; (ii) development, processing and marketing of livestock and livestock 
products; (iii) national forest development and resource conservation; and (iv) 
establishing a rural credit system, and other  studies on matters to be identified by 
the Borrower and related to the objectives of the Project; and
(d)
design and implementation of training programs for key national staff.
 
4.
MU: preparation and implementation of MU's work program and management of 
Project's funds.
Part B:
Emergency Rehabilitation Actions
 
1.
Farcha Laboratory: (a) construction of protection works against erosion, and 
rehabilitation of buildings and services, including preparation of an engineering 
study thereof; (b) equipment renewal, restoration of the herbarium, library services 
and international association operations; and (c) construction and development of a 
soil and water resources analysis laboratory.
2.
Farcha Abbattoir: urgent rehabilitation works.
 
3.
Additional emergency rehabilitation actions for public sector enterprises, and 
MADR and MEHP services, including institutional development and sector planning under 
Part A above, selected in accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth under 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Part C:
Pilot Actions
 
1.
Riverside cultivation carried out by ONDR's sahelian subdivision: development of 
optimum techniques for the irrigation and cultivation of about 25 separate pilot sites 
near Guelendeng ranging from 3 to 15 ha each of irrigated or semi-irrigated land 
including planning, staff  training, extension services, maintenance of equipment, 
including input services and acquisition of water pumps.
2.
Wadi cultivation carried out by ONDR's sahelian subdivision: development of 
optimum techniques for manual construction of shallow wells and for irrigation and 
cultivation of small plots in 6 wadis covering about 60 ha in the Kanem department, 
including planning, staff training and extension services, acquisition of construction 
materials and production inputs.
3.
Rural water points maintenance program: (a) establishment of a special division 
within ONHPV for the coordination of rural water points maintenance; (b) establishment 
Page  10
of two pump maintenance units under ONHPV's supervision, including one at Moundou to 
provide technical advice and spare parts for manual pumps on boreholes and wells; and 
(c) development of training facilities for ONHPV including acquisition of vehicles, 
equipment and design of a maintenance and training program and the development of 
prospecting methods for new points and of procedures for recovery of maintenance 
costs.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Chad may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000 may be awarded either: (i) on the 
basis of local competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association; or (ii) by force account,
2.
Contracts for vehicles and agricultural equipment estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 may be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures  satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts: 
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works, vehicles and equipment 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in 
Page  11
respect of
such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ agricultural, financial, research and socioeconomic consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Emergency Rehabilitation Actions
(Part B of the Project)
Additional Emergency Rehabilitation Actions may be eligible for financing under 
Category 5 of the table in paragraph 1 in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided that 
they meet the following criteria:
I.
For public sector enterprises:
 
(a)
the proposed actions shall be directly related to crop and livestock 
production;
(b)
detailed work plans and budgets shall be submitted to MU with the 
proposed actions to cover physical, financial and organizational aspects thereof 
including precise proposals for procurement of goods and services;
(c)
the proposed actions shall, to the extent possible, range from $50,000 
equivalent to $250,000 equivalent;
(d)
the proposed actions shall be estimated to be financially self-supporting 
within 12 months of funding approval; and
(e)
the proposed actions not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 shall be 
approved by the Committee referred to in Section II of this Schedule. Proposed actions 
exceeding that amount shall be submitted by MU to the Association for approval with a 
draft financing plan, including an 
undertaking to present quarterly progress reports.
The proposed actions shall be limited to the provision of civil works and the 
acquisition of equipment and spare parts not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000 per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
These proposed actions will be invited each year by MU from representatives of 
Page  12
the different ministries concerned with agricultural production and livestock.
MU shall be responsible for appraising and submitting to the Committee a 
selection of said proposed actions in line with the above criteria. MU's proposals 
shall be considered by a Committee composed of the General Director and the 
Development and Planning Director of the Planning Ministry
attached to the Office of the President, and of BIEP's Director, and submitted to the 
approval of the Planning Minister. MU's Director shall be the Committee's secretary.
II.
For MADR and MEHP services:
 
Detailed work plans and budgets shall be submitted by the relevant General 
Directors to MU with the proposed actions to cover physical, financial and 
organizational aspects thereof including precise proposals for procurement of goods 
and services.
The proposed actions shall be submitted by MU to the Association for approval.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 5 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
70,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the
Association shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible 
expenditures.
Page  13
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, 
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
