CREDIT NUMBER 1775 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated        Jul( IS               , 1987


﻿CREDIT N9MBER 1775 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          IIJf   15          , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Coneitions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in th General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "MU" or "Management Unit" means the unit referred to
under Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
(b)  "BIEP" means the Bureau Interministeriel des Etudes et
de la Programmation, the Interministerial Rural Planning Office
of the Borrower;
(c) "BTCD" means the Banque Tchadienne de Credit et de
Dep5ts of the Borrower;
(d) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(e)  "MADR" means the Ministere de l'Agriculture et du
Developpement Rural, the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for
Agriculture and Rural Development;


﻿-2 -
(f)    "MEHP" means    the  Ministare  de  l'Elevage  et  de
l'Hydraulique Pastorale, the Ministry of the Borrower responsible
for Livestock and Water Development;
(g)     "MTE"  means   the  Ministere  du   Tourisme  et  de
1'Environnement, the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for
Tourism and the Environment;
(h)    "ONDR" means the Office National de D&veloppement
Rural, the National Office of Rural Development of the Borrower;
(i)   "ONHPV" means the Office National de 1'Hydraulique
Pastorale et Villageoise, the National Office for Village and
Pastoral Water Development of the Borrower;
(j)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(k)     "Project  Preparation  Advance" means   the  projet
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated October 10, 1986 fnd
November 4, 1986, between the Borrower and the Association; and
(1)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account In accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 3 -
(b)    The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in BTCD on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, aad
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991 -r
such later date as the Association shall establish.    The Assoc
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Assokiation
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent ( I
of IV) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not witli-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be canelled.
(b) The co)mmitment charge shall be paid: (i) at suoh plar-es
as  the  Association  shall reasonably   request;  (ii) without
restriotions of any kind imposed by, or in the territoryf of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Associai a.
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per c.ent, IT
of 1) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit witrwn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.16. Commitment charges and service charge .,,  >
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each ;'Lar.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1997, and ending December 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.111. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schadule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project jointly
through MADR, 8IEP, MEHP and MTE with due diligence and
efficiency   and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices, awd shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the kssociation shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedile 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without any limitation or restrictions upon
any of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall:
(a)   open, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association and thereafter maintain for pu-poses of the Project,
a Project Account in BTCD for payment of expenditures under the
Project not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(b)   in addition to the initial deposit referred to in
Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, quarterly replenish the


﻿-5-
Project Account in an amount of at least five million CFAF (CFAF
5,000,000) up to an aggregate amount of seventy million CFAF
(CFAF 70,000,000), so that the funds available in such Project
Account shall at all times be sufficient to permit timely and
efficient execution of the Project.
Sectioa  3.()4. (a) The   Borrower shall: (i) select any
additional Emergency Rehabilitation Actions referred to under
Part B (3) of the Project in accordance with the eligibility
criteria specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) submit
to the Association for prior approval any Emergency Rehabilita-
tion Action for public sector enterprises exceeding t e equiva-
lent of $100,000; and (iii) submit to the Associatior for prior
approval any Emergency Rehabilitation Action for MADR and MEIIP
services referred to under Part B (3) of the Project.
(b)   Without any limitation to the provisions of Section
9.01 of the General Conditions the Borrower and the AssoiAtion
shall, twice a year, exchange views on the implementation of the
Project as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. One month
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association for its review and comment a progress report
on   the   implementation   of   the   Project,   including   the
implementation  of  Emergency  Rehabilitation   Actions  in  such
details as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than Decem-
ber  31,  1987,  introduce  regulations and make    institutional
arraigoments, satisfa-torv to the Association, to recover wator
piints maintenance costs, and investment and maintenance easts of
collectile equipments financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Serio-  i. h. The    Borrower  shall:  (a) submit   t,  the
Association for comments the work plans and training proigramns
prepared by all consultants and experts financed out of the
proceeds  f the Iredit within six months of their respective ilte
of erplyment; and, (b) update said work plans and tr3>W
programs as vart of the exchange of views provi4ed for mai
Section 3.(4 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.1G. The Borrower shall:
(a)  maintain the activities of the Management Unit of thr
Rural Projects Fund Project (MU), established under Cr 6h4 CD


﻿-6 -
under the "tutelle" of the Planning Ministry attached to the
Office of the President, and extend them in order to monitor the
implementation of the Project as described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(b)  employ for MU a Deputy Director, an Accountant and an
Administrator for Part B of the Project, and provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project;
(c)   cause MU to coordinate the annual work programs and
budgets for the Project among MADR, MEHP, MTE and BIEP, and to
furnish to the Association for information and comments not later
than August 31 of each year said work programs and budgets,
including details on expenditures financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit for Part B of the Project; and
(d)   cause MU to submit to the Association for prior
approval, not later than May 31, 1987, administrative arrange-
ments entered into between MU and: (i) ONDR, and the rural con-
struction service of MADR for the provision of services related
to the pilot actions referred to under Parts C (1) and C (2) of
the Project; (ii) ONHPV for the maintenance of water-points
referred to under Part C (3) of the Project; (iii) BIEP for
sub-sector studies referred to under Part A (3) (c) of the
Project; and (iv) MEHP and MADR for technical assistance.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;


﻿-7-
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until     at  least  one   year  after  the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives  .to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
4'? in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Gunditions, the following additional events are specified,


﻿-8-
namely, that the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdic-
tion shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestab-
lishment of MU or for changing its "tutelle" or for the suspen-
sion of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified: any
events specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date;
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a)   the account referred to under Section 3.03 of this
Agreement has been opened with an initial deposit of ten million
CFAF (CFAF 10,000,000);
(b) the Borrower has extended the terms of reference of MU,
as provided under Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement, so as to
entrust it with the administration of the implementation of the
Project; and
(c)   the Borrower has signed a contract with a consulting
firm, satisfactory to the Association, for the recruitment of
resident experts under Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower in charge of
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 9 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning attached to
the Office of the President
BP 286
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINPLAN                             5201KD
N'Djamena                           5248KD
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
-N WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By                          FI      fkoum
JI            Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /S\ Sen Sa nd stro m
Regional Vice President
NovAi rl                      Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil Works              170,000            100% of foreign
(except for                                expenditures and
Part B of the                              95% of local
Project)                                   expenditures
(2) Vehicles,              2,160,000            100% of foreign
equipment and                              expenditures and
spare parts                                95% of local.
(except for                                expenditures
Part B of the
Project)
(3) Consultants'           5,710,000            100% of foreign
studies,                                   expenditures and
training and                               95% of local
services                                   expenditures
(except for
Part B of the
Project)
(4) Operating              1,170,000            95% for with-
costs (except                              drawals up to an
for Part B of                              aggregate amount
the Project)                               equivalent to
700,000; 60%
for   withdrawals
up to an aggre-
gate amount
equivalent to
1,000,000; and
30% for with-


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
drawals up to an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
1,170,000
(5) Part B of the
Project:
Emergency
Rehabilitation
Actions
(a) civil works       1,080,000            100% of foreign
expenditures and
95% of local ex-
penditures
(b) equipment and       500,000            100% of foreign
spare parts                           expenditures and
for public                            95% of local ex-
sector enter-                         penditures
prises
(c) equipment and       420,000            100% of foreign
spare parts                           expenditures and
for rural                             95% of local ex-
development                           penditures
services
(d) consultants'        170,000            100% of foreign
services                              expenditures and
95% of local ex-
penditures
(e) operating           340,000            95% for with-
costs                                 drawals up to an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
210,000; 60%
for   withdrawals
up to an aggre-


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
gate amount
equivalent to
300,000; and
30% for with-
drawals up to an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
340,000
(6) Refunding of             420,000            Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated            2,360,000
TOTAL           14,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures"; and
(c)  "Operating Costs" means all costs associated with the
Project including local personnel salaries, and maintenance of
vehicles, equipment and office facilities.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for: (i)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and        (ii)


﻿- 14 -
expenditures under Categories (5) (a), (b), (d) and (e) exceeding
the equivalent   of $100,000 unless the Association has approved
the additional Emergency Rehabilitation Actions for public sector
enterprises in accordance with Section 3.04 (a)(ii) and Schedule
4 Part I to this Agreement; and (iii) expenditures under Category
(5) (c) unless the Association has approved the additional
Emergency Rehabilitation Actions for MADR's and MEHP's services
in accordance with Section 3.04 (a)(iii) and Schedule 4 Part II
to this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to stimulate the
Borrower's economic recovery through institutional development
and emergency rehabilitation of the agricultural sector's
productive  facilities; and    (ii)  to  enhance  the  Borrower's
planning capacity in the sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Development and Sector Planning
1.   MADR: strengthening of MADR's technical departments through
the design and implementation of agricultural and rural develop-
ment policies and preparation of training programs for key
national staff, the acquisition of vehicles, equipment, and
office facilities.
2.    MEHP: improving livestock productivity through the design
and implementation of livestock policies and the preparation of
training programs for key national staff, the acquisition of
vehicles, equipment and office facilities.
3.    BIEP: preparation of priority rural development projects
through:
(a) development of procedures for accelerating implementa-
tion of new projects;
(b) preparation of financial, budgeting analysis and audit
procedures of rural development projects;
(c) studies on potential for: (i) diversification and
expansion of crop production; (ii) development, processing and
marketing of livestock and livestock products; (iii) national
forest development and resource conservation; and (iv) establish-
ing a rural credit system, and other studies on matters to be
identified by the Borrower and related to the objectives of the
Project; and


﻿- 16 -
(d)  design and implementation of training programs for key
national staff.
4.   MU: preparation and implementation of MTJ's work program and
management of Project's funds.
Part B:   Emergency Rehabilitation Actions
1.     Farcha Laboratory: (a) construction of protection works
against erosion, and rehabilitation of buildings and services,
including preparation of an engineering study thereof; (b) equip-
ment renewal, restoration of the herbarium, library services and
international association operations; and (c) construction and
development of a soil and water resources analysis laboratory.
2.   Farcha Abbattoir: urgent rehabilitation works.
3.     Additional emergency rehabilitation actions for public
sector enterprises, and MADR and MEHP services, including insti-
tutional development and sector planning under Part A above,
selected in accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth
under Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Part C:   Pilot Actions
1.    Riverside cultivation carried out by ONDR's sahelian sub-
division: development of optimum techniques for the irrigation
and cultivation of about 25 separate pilot sites near Guelendeng
ranging from 3 to 15 ha each of irrigated or semi-irrigated land
including planning, staff training, extension services, main-
tenance of equipment, including input services and acquisition of
water pumps.
2.     Wadi cultivation carried out by ONDR's sahelian sub-
division: development of optimum techniques for manual construc-
tion of shallow wells and for irrigation and cultivation of small
plots in 6 wadis covering about 60 ha in the Kanem department,
including planning, staff training and extension services,
acquisition of construction materials and production inputs.
3.   Rural water points maintenance program: (a) establishment of
a special division within ONHPV for the coordination of rural
water points maintenance; (b) establishment of two pump main-
tenance units under ONHPV's supervision, including one at Moundou
to provide technical advice and spare parts for manual pumps on


﻿- 17 -
boreholes and wells; and (c) development of training facilities
for ONHPV including acquisition of vehicles, equipment and design
of a maintenance and training program and the development of
prospecting methods for new points and of procedures for recovery
of maintenance costs.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Iii the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the
Republic of Chad may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin
of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$1,500,000 may be awarded either: (i) on the basis of local
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association; or (ii) by force
account.
2.   Contracts for vehicles and agricultural equipment estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 19 -
3.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under con-
tracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a)    With  respect to each    contract for civil works,
vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments   for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,     such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies  of   the  contract  r-quired  to  be   furnished  to  the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
(c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a)   and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall
be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.     The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 20 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ agricultural, financial, research and
socio-economic consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Emergency Rehabilitation Actions
(Part B of the Project)
Additional Emergency Rehabilitation Actions may be eligible
for financing under Category 5 of the table in paragraph 1 in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided that they meet the follow-
ing criteria:
I.   For public sector enterprises:
(a) the proposed actions shall be directly related to crop
and livestock production;
(b)  detailed work plans and budgets shall be submitted to
MU with the proposed actions to cover physical, financial and
organizational aspects thereof including precise proposals for
procurement of goods and services;
(c)   the proposed actions shall, to the extent possible,
range from $50,000 equivalent to $250,000 equivalent;
(d)   the proposed actions shall be estimated to be finan-
cially self-supporting within 12 months of funding approval; and
(e)   the proposed actions not exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000 shall be approved by the Committee referred to in
Section II of this Schedule. Proposed actions exceeding that
amount shall be submitted by MU to the Association for approval
with a draft financing plan, including an undertaking to present
quarterly progress reports.
The proposed actions shall be limited to the provision of
civil works and the acquisition of equipment and spare parts not
to exceed the equivalent of $100,000 per contract up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
These proposed actions will be invited each year by MU from
representatives  of   the  different ministries   concerned  with
agricultural production and livestock.


﻿- 22 -
MU shall be responsible for appraising and submitting to the
Committee a selection of said proposed actions in line with the
above criteria. MU's proposals shall be considered by a Committee
composed of the General Director and the Development and Planning
Director of the Planning Ministry attached to the Office of the
President, and of BIEP's Director, and submitted to the approval
of the Planning Minister. MU's Director shall be the Committee's
secretary.
II. For MADR and MEHP services:
Detailed work plans and budgets shall be submitted by the
relevant General Directors to MU with the proposed actions to
cover physical, financial and organizational aspects thereof
including  precise  proposals   for  procurement  of   goods  and
services.
The proposed actions shall be submitted by MU to the
Association for approval.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
through 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an      amount
equivalent to CFAF 70,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been Culy opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 24 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible  Categories   shall  follow  such  procedures   as  the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.


﻿- 25 -
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


