Document of
The World Banke W
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. .,P-3551-CH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTON AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$128.0 MILLIOt
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
May 3, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate has been floating since August, 1982. In 1983, the
Government has managed the float, within certain margins, to reflect the
difference between domestic and international inflation.
Currency Unit: Chilean Peso (Ch$)
Calendar 1982
Currency Unit            Average          March 31, 1983
US$1                 Ch$50.91              Ch$74.07
Ch$1                 US$0.0196             US$0.0135
Ch$1,000             US$19.64              US$13.50
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CNP         -  Corporacion Nacional Portuaria
(National Ports Corporation)
ECLA        -  The U.N. Economic Commission for Latin America
EMPREMAR    -  Empresa Maritima del Estado
(State Maritime Company)
ENAP        -  Empresa Nacional de Petroleo
(National Oil Company)
FFCCE       -  Ferrocarriles del Estado
(State Railways)
IDB         -  Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo
(Inter-American Development Bank)
*"ANCHILE    -  Linea Aerea Nacional de Chile
(National Airline of Chile)
MOP            Ministerio de Obras Publicas
(Ministry of Public Works)
MTT         -  Ministerio de Transportes y Telecomunicaciones
(Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications)
ODEPLAN     -  Oficina de Planificacion Nacional
(National Planning Office)
USAID       -  U.S. Agency for International Development
Vialidad    -  Highway Directorate in the Public Works Ministry



- i -               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
SECOND HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Republic of Chile
Amount:              US$128.0 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:         The project has been designed to arrest the serious
deterioration of Chile's major north-south road link (the
Longitudinal Highway), main transversal roads and other
selected roads and bridges through the reconstruction,
rehabilitation or periodic maintenance of the affected
sections. It includes: (i) reconstruction and, in a few
cases, widening of about 600 km of badly deteriorated
main paved highways; (ii) periodic maintenance of about
1,400 km of selected sections of main roads; (iii)
construction or rehabilitation of about 85 highway
bridges; and (iv) purchase of road maintenance vehicles
and other equipment. The project would also include
consulting services to help the Government coordinate and
supervise the project works, to strengthen its planning
*                            and management systems for road and bridge rehabilitation
and maintenance, and to prepare preinvestment studies and
an analysis of transport sector issues. The project
faces no special risks.  It is a follow-up to the ongoing
First Highway Reconstruction project (Loan 1927-CH of
FY81) whose execution is proceeding ahead of schedule.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs: 1/
Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
A.  Reconstruction and widening of highways          57.1       46.7       103.8
B.  Periodic maintenance of main highways            33.0       27.0        60.0
C.  Bridge construction and rehabilitation            9.0        7.4        16.4
D. Purchase of road maintenance and
laboratory equipment                           2.8        8.7        11.5
E.  Consulting services and local training            6.6        5.2        11.8
F.  Scholarships and training abroad                   -         0.4         0.4
Base Cost                                    108.5       95.4       203.9
Contingencies:  Physical                      10.3        8.4        18.7
Price                        26.8       23.9        50.7
Total Project Costs                          145.6      127.7       273.3
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                     -          0.3         0.3
Total Financing Required                     145.6      128.0       273.6
Financing Plan:  Bank                                 -        128.0       128.0
Government                       145.6        -         145.6
Total                       145.6      128.0       273.6
Estimated
Disbursements:          Bank FY:            1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
…--    (US$ Millions)--
Annual              30.4    38.7    29.8    26.6        2.5
Cumulative          30.4    69.1    98.9   125.5   128.0
Rate of Return: Approximately 40 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           Report No. 4320b-CH dated May 3, 1983.
1/   The project costs include approximately US$4 million in identifiable
taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE FOR
A SECOND HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Chile for the equivalent of US$128.0 million to help
finance a Second Highway Reconstruction project. The proposed loan would
have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic memorandum on Chile (Report No. 3406-CH) was issued on
September 28, 1981. The following paragraphs are based on that memorandum
as well as on the findings of a mission which visited Chile in February
1983. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Evolution of the Economy to the end of 1978
3.        In the four decades following the Great Depression, successive
Governments sought to reduce Chile's vulnerability to world market
fluctuations, accelerate economic development and achieve a more equitable
distribution of income. Following a policy of import-substitution,
Governments increasingly intervened in the determination of prices, erected
high protective barriers against foreign competition, offered special tax and
other incentives to investment and entered directly into production and
distribution activities while intervening in the allocation of credit and
foreign exchange. During 1971-73, the State played a particularly
interventionist role in the economy. The Government undertook a major
agrarian reform, expropriated a large part of the private industrial and
mining sectors, and followed highly expansionary fiscal, monetary, and wage
policies. The results of these efforts were not consistent with
expectations. By 1973, the Central Government deficit exceeded one-fifth of
GDP. While the economy had experienced periods of slow growth, rapid
inflation and balance of payments problems in the past, these were all
accentuated. In 1973, for example, inflation exceeded 500 percent.
4.        The present Government, which assumed power in 1973, undertook a
major transformation of the economy. Believing in the predominant role of
the private sector, it decided to make the role of the State a subsidiary
one, depending on the market for sending signals to the private sector.  The
Central Government's budget deficit was eliminated. Virtually all prices,
including interest rates, were progressively freed, most tax and subsidy
distortions to relative prices removed, and tariff and non-tariff import
barriers virtually eliminated. The currency was massively devalued in 1973
and thereafter periodically adjusted until July 1, 1979 (para. 11). Exchange
controls were largely eliminated and foreign investment encouraged. In
addition, major reforms were introduced in the tax structure, public sector
budgetary process and banking legislation. Finally, most of the enterprises
taken over by the previous Government were returned to the private sector.
Many of these reforms were consistent with advice long offered Chile by the
Bank and other international institutions.



- 2 -
5.        This major restructuring of the economy was complicated by
difficult short-term conditions. In 1975 real copper earnings fell 50
percent; the resource loss to the economy from the drop was equivalent to
about 10 percent of the 1974 GDP. Additional resources, equivalent to 2.5
percent of GDP, were withdrawn from the economy in the form of net capital
outflows and interest payments to foreign lenders. Because of the severe
foreign exchange crisis and continuing high levels of inflation, the
Government introduced a drastic austerity program in April 1975. Real GDP in
1975 fell more than 11 percent and open unemployment reached 20 percent of
the labor force of Greater Santiago, where about 40 percent of Chile's
population lives.
6.        The depression bottomed out during the first quarter of 1976 and
Chile, with its first current account surplus in 20 years, was able not only
to service its debt but also to increase its net official reserves
substantially. By 1977, GDP in real terms had returned to 1971-72 levels.
In most respects, the economy responded well to the reforms. Real economic
growth in 1976-80 -- 8.5 percent yearly -- was more than double the 1940-1970
average.
7.        The annual rate of inflation was brought down to 30 percent in
1980. The balance of payments position of Chile improved markedly; the value
of agricultural and manufactured exports grew more than sevenfold between
1973 and 1978. Copper -- which traditionally had supplied over 80 percent of
Chile's export receipts -- had been reduced to half of total export earnings
by 1979. Net foreign reserves averaged over US$1.5 billion. By 1978, real
wages and salaries had recovered to their 1970 levels and then rose rapidly
as worker productivity increased. The financial position of both the
Government and most State enterprises improved dramatically. Not only did
the public sector run an overall surplus in the later 1970s, but the State
enterprises that remained in the public sector--and these were considerable
in number and value of production--were greatly improved in efficiency. This
economic turnaround was accomplished notwithstanding relatively low real
copper prices until mid-1979 and a heavy debt service burden.
8.        Chile's accelerated growth during the 1976-81 period was
accompanied by a considerable lag in eraployment generation; the efficiencies
in labor usage achieved in both private and public enterprises, as well as
the considerable shift in relative prices, meant that the unemployment rate
dropped only slowly, to 8 percent by 1981. The Government responded to the
needs of the unemployed with a series of measures: an emergency employment
program which employed 7 percent of the workforce during the depths of the
1975/76 downturn and represented about 5 percent of Government expenditures;
a program of wage subsidies; reform of unemployment insurance; and an
expanded training program.
9.        While the Government was eager to reduce the role of the State in
both directly productive activities as well as in adjusting the factor and
product price signals perceived by the private sector, it was equally
determined to improve the quality of, and access to, social services provided
to Chile's poor. Some past income distribution policies and programs in
Chile -- such as price controls, public housing, cheap credit, direct
subsidies, tax exemptions and broadly-based social expenditure programs --
not only had perverse growth effects, but were often of equal or, in some



- 3 -
cases, greater benefit to the urban middle class as they were to the truly
poor. Since the current Government carefully channelled its outlays more
towards the extreme poor, its public social outlays -- which only reached
the 1972 level in real per capita terms in 1980 because of fiscal constraints
-- were at least as effective as those of prior Governments.
10.       Many of the Government's approaches were successful; some have been
innovative. Treatment and rehabilitation centers for severely undernourished
children and a preschool nursery program for the poor are examples of
promising new approaches in nutrition which are gaining worldwide
recognition. Fortified and protein enriched milk distribution programs for
a        infants, preschool children and pregnant and nursing mothers reached about 80
percent of children under 5. Nursery schools integrating nutrition, medical
care, and education for the most disadvantaged preschool children have been
expanded rapidly. One important result of the health program is that the
infant mortality rate has been about halved over the past dozen years.
Education was also reformed. University fees were raised -- with subsidies
provided for poorer students. Primary and secondary education, as well as
many health services and some infrastructure maintenance, is now being
decentralized to provincial and municipal control. While this will require a
major improvement in regional administrative capacity, the Government is
determined to accept this task in an effort to improve the responsiveness of
officials to local communities.
Economic Developments Since 1979
11.       After 1979, economic conditions began to change.  This was caused
by a major shift in macroeconomic policy and the ongoing world recession.
On July 1, 1979 the Government ended its pre-announced crawling peg policy
and fixed the Chilean Peso at Ch$39 : US$1. This, combined with greatly
lessened restrictions on external capital flows and public sector surpluses,
was expected to lead to a relatively quick adjustment of domestic inflation
to international levels. The Government's goal was not only to end
Chile's propensity for high inflation, but also to establish a monetary
policy virtually independent of Government intervention. Unfortunately, the
time lag in the adjustment of domestic inflation rates, combined with the
subsequent appreciation of the U.S. dollar and 1981-83 world recession,
produced an unsustainable boom followed by a pronounced economic
contraction.
12.       Between June 1979 and January 1981, domestic inflation was 60
percent; U.S. inflation was only about 20 percent.   The variation in peso
and dollar nominal interest rates was even more extreme; as a result, the
*        Chilean private sector borrowed heavily abroad.  Between end-1979 and
end-1981, Chile's medium-and long-term private external debt almost tripled
to US$8.1 billion, while the public external debt fell slightly.   As the
peso appreciated, much of the increased expenditure of Chileans went for
imports. The real value of imports of goods and nonfactor services (at 1977
prices) rose by slightly more than 25 percent between 1980 and 1981. The
openness of the economy, coupled with successive fiscal surpluses, ultimately
dampened inflation; by the end of 1981 and early 1982, Chilean inflation was
close to nil. Real fixed investment also grew 20 percent yearly;
construction boomed and major additions to industrial and transport equipment
were made. While real Government consumption dropped, private consumption
grew over 9 percent yearly during the two year period 1979-81.



- 4 -
13.       The appreciation of the peso -- when combined with the growing
world recession -- also had an effect on output of traded agricultural and
manufactured products after 1980. Nonmineral exports, which had seen
spectacular growth earlier, dropped in dollar terms in both 1981 and 1982.
Agricultural exports grew moderately in both years but the growth was wholly
in seafood products and fresh fruits; the latter grew 30 percent in volume
terms as prior plantings of new trees and grape arbors began to enter into
production. Manufactured exports began dropping in 1981, and dropped further
in 1982. Wood products (lumber, logs, pulp, and paper), which make up one
eighth of all exports, dropped precipitously in both years. While some of
the drop clearly resulted from declining world demand, other drops in
prepared foods and drinks, chemical products, and machinery were mostly due
to the less attractive real exchange rate. Concurrently, copper prices also
fell, from US$1.00 a pound in 1980 to less than 68 cents a pound in the
second half of 1982; in real terms copper was at its lowest price since the
Great Depression.
14.       The negative effect on industry as exports declined was exacerbated
as manufactured imports accelerated. Between 1979 and 1981, nonfood consumer
imports more than doubled; passenger automobile imports tripled. Since many
of the imports competed directly with domestic production, some companies
began to encounter severe problems as early as mid-1981. By the end of the
year, the economy was in a recession; during 1982 the recession deepened
rapidly.
15.       Manufacturing real value added dropped almost 22 percent in 1982.
Construction, which had boomed in 1980/81, dropped 29 percent; commerce and
transport value added dropped 15 percent and 10 percent respectively. Real
GDP -- which had grown by 5.7 percent in 1981 -- fell by over 14 percent in
1982. Real fixed investment dropped almost 37 percent. As conditions
worsened the unemployment rate rose rapidly. Open unemployment in Greater
Santiago was eight percent during July-September 1981; by the last quarter of
the year it was 11 percent; and by July-September 1982 it almost reached 24
percent. Over 60 percent of construction workers were unemployed as were 30
percent of industrial workers. The financial situation of many firms and
banks had been deteriorating gradually. As early as November 1981, the
Government had intervened some insolvent banks, but the situation worsened
considerably in 1982, when a series of bankruptcies -- combined with
interlocking ownership of banks and borrowing companies -- complicated
Government efforts to support those banks confronting liquidity problems.
Another major indicator of the severity of the 1982 adjustment was the drop
in merchandise imports by an estimated third in real terms; in dollar terms
they dropped even more -- 45 percent. Thus, in spite of a drop in 1982
export value, the current account deficit of the balance of payments was
halved; from US$4.8 billion to less than US$2.4 billion, or 10 percent of
GDP.
16.        The 1982 budget, prepared in September 1981, proved to be
optimistic. As revenues fell with depressed copper prices and worsening
economic conditions, public sector finances moved from a surplus in 1981 to a
deficit equivalent to 4 percent of GDP in 1982; the Central Government
deficit in that same year was about 2.5 percent of GDP. The Government found
it difficult to cut outlays, particularly for the social sectors. The Social
Security reform, which required fiscal resources to ease the transition to
private funds, required increased fiscal support as workers' contributions



fell with the increase in unemployment. The devolution of educational and
health responsibilities to regional and municipal governments proved more
costly than expected, and the Government decided to accelerate rapidly its
direct employment programs. The Authorities doubled the workers employed in
the emergency Minimum Employment Program. By December 1982, 336,470 workers
were benefitting from this program; one twelfth of the workforce. The fiscal
constraint remains strong. In spite of a major reduction in public capital
outlays, the 1983 budget will still be in deficit.
17.       In June 1982 the Government began to deal with the deepening
economic crisis by devaluing the peso by 18 percent and adopting a crawling
peg against a basket of currencies.  In early August, as the crisis worsened,
the peso was floated; as it floated downward a preferential rate of foreign
exchange was established for debtors in foreign exchange. By late September
the float became a managed one, within a preannounced range, and a policy was
announced which would unite the preferential rate for debtors with the
official rate during 1983. By end-March 1983, the peso had depreciated to
Ch$74 : US$1.
Short- and Medium-Term Prospects
18.       In January 1983, the Government began a short-term stabilization
program which the IMF assisted with an SDR 500 million standby and SDR 295
million access to the Compensatory Finance Facility. The goal of the standby
was to reduce the 1983 current account deficit of the balance of payments
even further -- to US$1.6 billion -- by reducing the fiscal deficit and
maintaining a stable, real exchange rate. While about five percent of
imports -- mostly agricultural products -- were subjected to temporary
anti-dumping duties of up to 25 percent, the Authorities decided to retain
liberal economic policies and initially ruled out raising the nation's 10
percent tariff structure or significantly increasing exchange controls.
19.       Two major assumptions of Chile's IMF-supported program proved
optimistic. One was that Chile's foreign commercial creditors would not only
maintain their present exposure, but increase it by US$1 billion. Another
was that the financially weakened banks and companies would slowly strengthen
their position with limited Central Bank support. In fact, the reluctance of
foreign commercial banks to lend throughout the Latin American region
affected Chile quickly and adversely; while declining to lend fresh funds,
the foreign banks liquidated short-term debt equal to over US$600 million in
the month of January 1983. Moreover, the Central Bank found itself
continuously confronting urgent needs for emergency peso financing from
various banks and/or companies suffering liquidity problems. The combination
of increased Central Bank credit and the desire by foreign banks to reduce
their exposure finally forced the Government -- with the consent of its
creditors -- to declare a "stand still" on amortization payments of external
debt. At the same time -- January 1983 -- the growing illiquidity of the
banking system forced the Government to intervene most of Chile's major
private banks as well as to liquidate two large banks. The Government is now
restructuring the finances of most of the domestic banking system and --
indirectly -- of a significant number of private firms. Much of the
liquidity for this restructuring will come from taxes introduced in early
1983 equal to more than two percent of GDP. These new taxes are mostly on
imports; the general 10 percent import tariff has been doubled. The



- 6 -
Government is now approaching Chile's foreign commercial creditors to seek:
(i) a maintenance of their short-term exposure; (ii) a rescheduling of the
private sector's 1983 and 1984 maturities; and (iii) fresh financing. The
Authorities believe these actions will permit them to re-establish their
original program with the IMF before the end of 1983. Until the financial
restructurings -- both internal and external -- are completed around mid-1983
and a recovery in OECD countries occurs, it will be difficult to expect a
strong Chilean economic recovery.
20.       Chile's medium-term prospects remain reasonably good.   The country
remains one of the world's cheapest producers of copper, a commodity which is
already recovering in price. Wood products exports are also likely to
recover assuming an OECD rebound. Tree crops will be accelerating in
production over the next few years. Other exports (e.g., chemical products
and machinery) are also subject -- as the past has shown -- to rapid growth
when the exchange rate is appropriate. On the import side, lower world
petroleum prices will benefit Chile, a net oil importer. Chile will also be
helped by lower interest rates. Moreover, the State enterprises remain among
the most efficient in the Hemisphere. While many private companies suffer
from financial problems, the overwhelming majority still have operating
profits and could recover once their financial situation is eased.
21.       Two major problems still remain.  First, the large foreign debt and
its concommittant interest burden on the economy will continue in the
medium-term to reduce the recovery's buoyancy. Secondly, in spite of
aggressive Government employment programs, the unemployment rate is likely to
decline only slowly -- as it did in the 1970s. Nevertheless, the Government
has demonstrated in 1983 a capacity to attack its problems in a pragmatic
manner which augurs well for the longer-term future prospects of the economy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHILE
22.       Among developing countries, Chile is the Bank's oldest borrower.
The Bank's first development loan was extended to Chile in 1948 and, since
then, the Bank has approved 27 loans to Chile totalling US$441.1 million, net
of cancellations. IDA has also extended a US$22.9 million credit to the
country for a road project.  Of these operations, 24 Bank loans and the
credit have been fully disbursed; as of March 31, 1983, overall disbursements
stood at US$401.7 million. IFC commitments in Chile as of the same date
stood at US$21.4 million, with US$15.2 million of this amount committed to
copper mining and the remainder to industry. The Corporation holds US$1.4
million of its Chilean commitments.
23.       Of total Bank and IDA lending to Chile, 30.9 percent has been for
power, 22.8 percent for agriculture, 20.3 percent for roads and 10.4 percent
for mining. The balance, 15.6 percent, has been for industry, education,
technical assistance and water supply.
24.       Historically, the volume of Bank lending to Chile has fluctuated
substantially in accordance, inter alia, with the country's economic
performance and the availability of suitable projects. Between 1971 and
1973, the Bank did not lend to Chile because of the severe deterioration in



economic and financial management referred to in Part I. On the basis of
negotiations substantially completed with the Allende Government, the Bank
cautiously resumed lending in 1974. Specifically, the amount of two existing
loans was increased by US$8.3 million to finance interest and other charges
under the fifth power and second highway maintenance projects. In addition,
a loan of US$5.25 million was made to help finance a technical assistance
project. In the FY75-77 period, the Bank made four loans totalling US$107.8
million to help finance projects in the agriculture, copper mining and power
X       sectors.  The Bank did not lend to Chile in FY78-79, but it approved a US$38
million loan for a water supply project in FY80 and, in FY81, two loans in
the amounts of US$36 million and US$42 million for a second agricultural
*       credit project and a highway reconstruction project, respectively.  The loan
recommended in this report would be the first to Chile since FY81.
25.       Execution of Bank-financed projects in Chile has, on the whole,
been satisfactory. During the 1971-73 period, however, owing to the high rate
of inflation, deteriorating conditions in the construction industry and a
shortage in counterpart funds, virtually no headway was made in
implementation of the three road and education operations approved in 1970.
Beginning in 1974, execution of these projects improved markedly and all
three were later completed. Subsequently, the copper sector and sixth power
projects approved in FY76 and FY77, respectively, experienced delays in start
up, but these difficulties have been overcome and the loans are now fully
disbursed. Disbursement of Bank loans to Chile is proceeding well. In FY82,
disbursements reached US$32.6 million, the highest figure ever to the country
and about a third higher than in FY81. Annex II contains a summary of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC commitments as of March 31, 1983, as well as notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
26.       In addition to the proposed Second Highway Reconstruction project,
the Bank's lending program for Chile for the next 12-18 months contains a
project for agricultural services and credit (partly for small farmers) and a.
low-income housing operation.
27.       By the end of 1981, Chile's medium- and long-term disbursed
external debt was US$12.6 billion; only US$4.4 billion was debt owed by the
Government or enjoyed a Government guarantee. The Bank Group's share of
Chile's external term debt is small: 4.1 percent of the public debt and only
1.4 percent of the total debt. The Bank Group's share of the 1981 debt
service was only 1.0 percent.
28.       In the past, both USAID and IDB have been active in Chile with each
agency providing the country with considerable development assistance. To
date, IDB has committed about US$1,020 million net of grants to Chile,
focusing on agriculture, industry, power and transportation. USAID's Chile
operations -- including about US$80 million in grants -- totaled some US$665
million through 1980; since then there has been no significant lending except
for credits for purchase of agricultural commodities (under the U.S. PL 480
program). USAID does not anticipate any new lending to Chile at the present
time. IDB plans to continue lending to the country, blending loans for
traditional infrastructure projects and credit schemes with lending for
socially-oriented projects.



-8-
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
29.       Chile covers an area of about 757,000 km2 along the Pacific coast
of South America.   It is wedged between the Pacific Ocean on the west and
south and the rugged Andes, which form the boundary with Argentina, to the
east. To the north, it borders on Bolivia and Peru. It is a long, narrow
country stretching about 4,300 km from north to south, but its width is no
more than 150-200 km in most places.
30.       Chile has a greatly varied climate and topography.  In the north
lies the sparsely settled, mineral-rich Atacama desert, the world's most arid
region. Moving south, the desert gradually gives way to the country's
heartland, the Central Valley, which is endowed with good soils, a
Mediterranean climate and numerous rivers to provide water for irrigation.
The region is home for approximately 70 percent of the country's 11.3 million
inhat,itants. Santiago, Chile's capital and largest city -- with a population
of about four million -- is located in the Central Valley as are Valparaiso
and Concepcion, the second and third largest urban centers. South of the
central region, precipitation increases markedly and dense forests, lakes,
fjords, glaciers and islands become dominant. The country finally tapers off
into a region of windswept steppes around the Strait of Magellan.
31.       Although there are east-west transport links connecting ports with
inlarnd cities and towns, the backbone of Chile's transport network is the
Longitudinal Highway -- the country's only continuous north-south road.
The 1:ransport network, which is most heavily concentrated in the Central
Valley, consists of roads, railways, coastal shipping and civilian air
link.s. Road transport carries about 66 percent of domestic freight, the
railways carry about 24 percent, coastal shipping about 7 percent, and oil
pipelines about 3 percent. Air transport, while growing in importance, still
hancales less than one percent. The existing transport network is generally
adequate for Chile's present needs although it does urgently require improved
mainitenance and substantial reconstruction because of its age.
Ins titutional Framework
32.        Responsibility for the transport sector in Chile is shared mainly
by t'he Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications (MTT) and the Ministry of
Public Works (MOP), although other Ministries are also involved in the
decision-making process.   The MTT has the authority to regulate ports,
coasi'al shipping, railways, buses and trucks; it shares responsibility for
aviat:ion with the Ministry of Defense. It also carries out overall sectoral
planrting, although this is an area which has received little emphasis so
far,, The MTT has limited technical capacity and lacks adequate sectoral
data. Aware of these shortcomings, it has tried to strengthen its Planning
Office by setting up a computer center for data processing and retrieval. It
has also initiated a nationwide survey of the country's vehicle fleet and
comm:issioned studies of the demand for transport services.  MOP is
respcoisible for all transport infrastructure works, for highway planning and
for *zollection of tolls and enforcement of vehicle axle load and dimension
limitE;. The Government is keenly interested in improving the finances of the



- 9 -
State-owned railroad, shipping and airline companies (paras. 36-42); hence,
the Ministry of Finance participates in decisions concerning their
investments, personnel levels and tariffs. Finally, the National Planning
Office (ODEPLAN) reviews and approves all public sector investment proposals
in the sector.
Sectoral Development Strategy
33.       In the past 25 years, successive Chilean Governments have followed
different transport strategies. Between 1958-1964, the Government's emphasis
was on stimulating the country's development by making large infrastructure
investments.  Large portions of the existing system were built during this
period. The next administration (1964-1970) stressed improving the system's
efficiency instead of expanding it. During this period, modernization of the
railroads was pushed. Between 1971 and 1973, the emphasis shifted to
employment generation and to providing transport services at low prices.
Public sector transport agencies hired large numbers of additional staff, but
little attention was given to maintenance. As a result, operations and
facilities deteriorated and sector agencies ran large deficits.
34.       The thrust of the policy which the present Government initiated in
1973 has been to restore the sector's efficiency and to make public sector
enterprises financially self-sufficient. To this end, their personnel has
been greatly reduced, management has been tightened, tariffs increased and
new investments have been held down. The Government's main objective has
been to offer transport services at the lowest cost commensurate with an
acceptable level of reliability. To help achieve this goal, the Chilean
authorities favor relying on market forces and free competition. They have,
therefore, greatly reduced transport sector regulations. This policy has
generally worked well. The country's transport system has been rendered more
efficient and competitive transport rates have prevailed. In fact,
competition has been so keen that rates being charged have, in some cases,
been below short-term operating costs.
35.       With regard to transport sector investments, the Government
believes that these should only be made in response to growth in the
productive sectors and population, i.e., in order to satisfy actual
demand. Given the transport network's state of deterioration following
a period of underinvestment and insufficient maintenance during most of the
seventies, most of the capital outlays in the next few years, as in the
recent past, will be directed to rehabilitation, reconstruction and
maintenance of existing transport infrastructure. This approach is a
sensible one. The Bank supported it with its First Highway Reconstruction
Project (Ln. 1927-CH of FY 1981) and the operation recommended in this report
would provide additional backing for this strategy.
The Transport System
36.       Railways:  Railways in Chile carry about 10 million passengers (1.5
billion passengers/km) a year and about 24 percent of Chile's domestic
freight traffic. Most of the passenger traffic is carried by the State-owned
railway system (FFCCE), which has approximately 6,000 km of main line track.
Nearly half of the tonnage hauled by rail is, however, carried on some 1,200
km of privately-owned and operated railways.



- 10 -
37.       In the past, FFCCE generated large deficits.  These peaked at about
US$135 million in 1971 when the Government steeply increased the number of
railways personnel. The present Government steadily reduced and, by 1980,
eliminated these deficits by cutting back on featherbedding, setting more
realistic tariffs, closing some uneconomic lines, and introducing
technological improvements and operational changes (such as contracting out
some maintenance tasks to private firms). Measures for a further
modernization of Chile's much improved railway system would be studied with
'he aid of consultants who would be financed under the proposed project
(para. 70).
38.      Ports:  Ten Government-administered general cargo ports handle a
substantial share of the country's coastal and international shipping.
However, most bulk cargo -- mainly minerals, petroleum and coal -- passes
through separate, privately-owned facilities. In general, the port
facilities are well-constructed and have adequate wharfage and storage,
although some improvements are required (para. 40).
39.       The Government's policy in the ports subsector aims at
encouragement of port efficiency through competition between public and
private ports and, within ports, between various terminal operators.  In
October 1981, the Government established a new National Ports Corporation
(CNP) to oversee Government-administered ports.  The State-owned port
authorities will not be allowed to carry out handling, transport and storage
of goods; these activities are being turned over to private enterprise. In
1981, the Government also introduced three daily shifts of seven hours each,
instead of the previous two eight-hour shifts with considerable overtime
work. Customs regulations have also been simplified. As a result of these
efficiency measures, congestion at ports has disappeared and port operating
costs have declined.
40.       Future investment in port facilities will be mainly for changeover
to new methods of goods handling (such as containerization, which is
proceeding at a rapid rate) and for improvements such as better access
(roads, railways) to port facilities. A transportation sector study,
envisaged under the proposed project, would look into such port improvements,
to reflect these policy objectives (para. 70).
41.       Shipping:  More than 90 percent of Chile's international goods
traffic is by ship. Ten Chilean shipping companies, two of which are
State-owned, operate a fleet which totalled about 700,000 dead-weight tons
in 1982. These companies are engaged mainly in international shipping and,
to a lesser extent, in cabotage.  In keeping with its overall strategy, the
Government has taken a number of measures to make the State-owned shipping
companies more efficient and, like FFCCE, they too are now operating
profitably. They are, for example, exposed to foreign competition, as the
Government allows all foreign shipping companies access to Chilean
international ports.
42.       Air Transport:  Chile has about 250 airfields and some 20 airports
with regularly scheduled service.   Six of the latter offer international
service. The Santiago airport is the largest. The Government's transport
liberalization policy has led to rapid development of commercial aviation.
Chilean-owned airlines provide both domestic and international cargo and
passenger services. They account for all local and about 30 percent of



- 11 -
international traffic. The State-owned airline (LANCHILE) is the largest
among them in international traffic, although a number of privately-owned
airlines are growing in importance and one of them (LADECO) is the largest
national air carrier. As in the case of other State-owned transport
companies, LANCHILE is trying to improve its operating efficiency and
Government subsidies to the company are limited to a decreasing number of
uneconomic services maintained in agreement with the Government for social
reasons.  In keeping with Chile's market-oriented policies, LANCHILE is fully
exposed to competition by other Chilean and international air carriers.
43.       Pipelines:  Chile's main pipeline system, about 620 km long,
carries gasoline, kerosene, diesel, butane and propane gas, fuel oil and
turbojet fuel. It is owned partly by private interests (272 km) and partly
by the Empresa Nacional del Petroleo (ENAP), the State-owned petroleum
company. ENAP also operates pipelines in southern Chile which transport
natural gas to Argentina.
The Highway Subsector
44.       The highway network in Chile totals about 76,260 km, of which some
13 percent are paved, about 42 percent are improved to gravel standards, and
the remaining 45 percent consist of earth roads. The backbone of the system
is the 3,500 km long Longitudinal Highway, which is the country's only
continuous road linking urban centers along the north-south axis. The
Longitudinal Highway is vital to Chile's economy and fosters national
integration. Together with the major transversal roads and the regional
roads, it constitutes Chile's main highway network (the Basic Network) which
extends over some 22,500 km; the remaining roads, about 53,800 km in length,
are built to lower standards and classified as local roads.
45.       The road network is adequate in the more heavily populated areas of
the country. However, because of insufficient maintenance, increased and
heavier traffic and its age -- much of the paved system is 20 to 40 years old
and was designed for lower traffic volumes -- it requires extensive
rehabilitation, reconstruction and periodic maintenance to meet current and
projected traffic. This applies particularly to the Longitudinal Highway and
some transversal highways and bridges which have deteriorated badly in recent
years. In 1977, with assistance of local consultants and a German consulting
firm (Dorsch Consult), the MOP selected 805 km of the Longitudinal Highway
*        for urgent reconstruction in  four tranches; the scope of the reconstruction
program was subsequently expanded to 1,200 km. Soon thereafter, it started
the reconstruction work with financing from Government resources and by 1981
had completed tranches I and II (410 km). The Bank's FY81 Highway
Reconstruction Project (Ln. 1927-CH) provided financing for the ongoing third
tranche (250 km).In 1981, on the basis of an expanded program, the IDB made
two loans amounting to US$161 million for the fourth tranche of
reconstruction (540 km). The total initial program is scheduled for
completion by the end of 1985. In the meantime, other road sections have
deteriorated. To deal with these, in 1982 the MOP contracted with local
consultants for feasibility and engineering studies to reconstruct a further
500 km of the Longitudinal Highway north of Santiago and about 250 km of main
transversal roads, both north and south of Santiago. The reconstruction
component of the project recommended in this report is based on these
feasibility studies.



- 12 -
46.       Financing for highway expenditures comes from: (i) the national
budget; (ii) road user charges (e.g., tolls); and (iii) external sources.
Since 1970, there has been a rapid increase in road user charges, the
proceeds of which, from 1972 onwards, have exceeded the Government's road
maintenance and investment expenditures. By 1977, road user charges were six
times highway expenditures. Despite an increase in road outlays, charges
were still three times ofexpenditures in 1981. Implementation of the
Government's 1983-89 program for routine and periodic maintenance and for
construction of the country's main road network (para. 54), will require a
steady growth in highway expenditures through 1985. Adjustments in road user
charges may, therefore, be needed in the near future.  A satisfactory program                )
of budgetary allocations for the main roads' maintenance and investment costs
for 1983-89 and for local roads was agreed with the Government during loan
negotiations (paras. 54 and 55).
47.       Road Traffic:  Parts of the Longitudinal Highway and some major
transversal roads in Chile are toll roads, generally with average daily
traffic levels between 2,000 and 8,500 vehicles at the toll stations.
According to data collected at these stations, the volume of traffic on these
roads has grown about 16 percent, in total, from 1972 to 1982. On an annual
basis, trafic volume fluctuated widely reflecting economic conditions in
Chile. There was a steady decline in traffic from 1972 to 1976 (about 29.7
percent), followed by a steady increase from 1976 to 1981 (about 74
percent). The growth in 1981 was high (about 21.3 percent), and was followed
by a moderate decline (about 5.4 percent) in 1982. This latter figure
mirrored a decline in the economy and a major effort by the competing
railways to maintain their levels of traffic.
48.       From 1972 to 1982, the composition of Chile's road traffic changed
considerably. Passenger car traffic registered at toll stations increased
from 65 percent in 1972 to 70 percent in 1982. Concurrently, the share of
two-axle trucks diminished from 22 percent in 1972 to 10 percent in 1982,
while the share of trucks with three or more axles increased from 5 percent
to 10 percent during the same period. Parallel to these developments, the
registered highway passenger vehicle fleet increased from about 216,000 units
in 1972 to about 519,000 in 1981, buses from about 15,800 to about 22,100,
and the registered truck fleet from about 76,000 to about 84,200. The
increase in the overall vehicle fleet was 12 percent in 1980 and 23 percent
in 1981. The change in the composition of the truck fleet reflects similar
trends in other countries where larger and more efficient vehicles have been
replacing smaller trucks.
49.       The level of petroleum derivative prices in Chile is set to
encourage energy conservation. Thus, while the vehicle fleet in 1980-81
experienced an average growth of more than 20 percent, automotive fuel
consumption increased by less than 2 percent during the same period.
Reflecting the faster growth in heavier, more efficient trucks, diesel
consumption has grown faster than the growth in gasoline. Retail prices for
automotive fuels cover, with considerable margin, the costs of importing and
distributing these fuels. For example, the July 1982 retail prices in
Santiago for regular gasoline and diesel fuel were US$1.74 and US$1.51
equivalent, respectively, per U.S. gallon, as compared with the cif
Valparaiso prices of US$1.00 and US$1.01 equivalent, respectively, for
imports.



- 13 -
50.       The road transport industry in Chile is now free of virtually all
restrictive regulations. For both goods and passenger traffic, entry into
the transport profession and setting of tariffs are completely free. While
this competitive system has had major benefits in terms of improved
efficiency and reduced costs (para. 34), some disequilibria in the sector
still exist. At present, for example, the trucking industry has substantial
oversupply of capacity -- a condition which is largely due to the current
economic recession and the railways' current practice of short-term marginal
cost pricing for competing haulage.  MTT intends to undertake a study of the
sector, to consider ways of dealing with these problems. The Bank would
finance this study as part of the proposed project (para. 70). The scope
and contents of the study were discussed in detail and agreed upon with the
MTT on the basis of terms of reference for the study prepared by that
Ministry.
51.       Highway Administration:  The MOP, through its Directorate of
Highways (Vialidad), is in charge of the planning, study, design,
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of Chile's main (Basic Network)
highways. In 1974, the Government divided the country into 13 regions to
decentralize the public administration and to afford greater autonomy to
local areas. Since then, the regions -- with technical guidance from
Vialidad -- have been responsible for maintenance of all main roads in their
jurisdictions, as well as for the design and construction of local roads.
The MOP has a representative in each region. These representatives report
directly to Vialidad, but also coordinate closely with the regional
administrations. Within the limits of its resources, Vialidad also provides
support to municipalities in construction and maintenance of local roads.
52.       Vialidad is headed by a competent, experienced director, has well-
qualified staff, and is an efficient agency. It has a good internal auditing
system. It employs about 4,000 persons, of whom some 150 are engineers and a
further 50 consist of other professionals. The total number of staff now on
Vialidad's payroll is only one-third of the number employed in 1973. This is
in keeping with the Government's policy of maintaining Vialidad staff as
small as possible, executing as much work as possible by contract, and hiring
consultants or temporary contract workers to handle any overflow of work.
Chile has a well-developed and capable construction industry which actually
does most of the country's road construction and maintenance work.   There
are now about 60 firms each capable of carrying out yearly works of US$5.0
m       million or more.  Supervision of civil works is done by Vialidad with
assistance of local consultants on contract.
53.       Road Maintenance:  In the 1970-79 period, highway maintenance in
Chile was deficient. The improvements sought under the Bank's Second Highway
Maintenance Project (Loan 558-CH, approved in 1968) were not fully realized,
mainly because the Government did not provide the necessary financial
resources to support the effort owing to economic difficulties (para. 57). A
serious problem of deferred maintenance built up which was compounded by the
fact that the aging main road network was designed for less extensive and
lighter traffic. As a result, large stretches of the network failed to the
point where they require reconstruction.



- 14 -
54.        As economic conditions improved, the Government has undertaken a
substantial maintenance program for all roads. Expenditures for this purpose
were substantially increased in 1980 and 1981 (to US$47.9 million and US$80.4
million equivalent, respectively, versus US$33.6 million in 1979) to deal
with the backlog of maintenance in both the Basic Network and local roads.
The Bank's First Highway Reconstruction project (Ln. 1927-CH of FY81)
provided funds for studies to strengthen road maintenance. As required under
the project, a task force was set up within MOP to prepare a multi-year
(1983-89) maintenance and investment program for Chile's main roads. A
satisfactory 1983-89 road maintenance and investment program for the Basic
Network has now been presented to the Bank and the Government would agree
under the proposed project to provide sufficient financing to carry it out on
schedule (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). This program envisages
about US$34 million per annum in maintenance outlays on the Basic Network
through 1985 and a gradual upswing thereafter to US$57 million (in constant
1982 prices) by the end of the decade. The proposed loan would continue to
support the Government's efforts to reconstruct and adequately maintain the
country's Basic Network highways, with particular emphasis on training of
Vialidad personnel on road rehabilitation and maintenance (para. 69).
55.        The Government is considering turning over to local administrations
(municipalities) the responsibility for construction and maintenance of local
roads. There remain doubts, however, about the local authorities' ability to
effectively maintain these roads. An Interministerial Commission which the
Government set up in December 1982 -- consisting of representatives of the
MOP, the Ministry of Interior, and the Ministry of Finance (the National
Budget Office and the Internal Revenue Service) -- will prepare a plan of
action and secure adequate finance for maintenance of these roads. MOP is
also preparing a pilot project for maintenance of local roads in three
provinces. Bank staff would support these efforts by providing technical
assistance for the local roads' maintenance program during the course of
their supervision of the project recommended in this report. If needed, the
Bank would also consider financing a local roads' maintenance project. Under
the proposed loan, the Government would submit to the Bank by the end of June
1984 a satisfactory plan for maintenance of local roads (Section 4.03 (a) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
56.        Past Bank Group Lending for Highway Projects: The Bank Group has
been active in the Chilean road subsector since 1961 and has extended four
loans and a credit, totalling US$91 million, for road projects.  The earliest
operations were Credit 4-CH and Loan 287-CH (both approved in June, 1961).
They supported projects designed to expand and improve the highway network
and to strengthen road maintenance.  While the maintenance project was
successfully completed in 1966, the Credit for construction was not fully
disbursed until 1971 because of delays encountered in engaging consultants
and in completing engineering. The project was also set back by floods in
1965-66, which did serious damage to the roads under construction.
57.        A second Highway Maintenance Project was financed under Loan
558-CH, approved in September 1968. Its aim was to further the maintenance
improvement program launched under Loan 287-CH. After a promising initital
start, the project was caught up in the economic turmoil through which Chile
passed in the early and mid seventies. It was particularly affected by
insufficient counterpart funds and rampant inflation. As a result, the



- 15 -
project was not completed until 1978, about five years behind schedule.
Moreover, as the Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2318) issued in
connection with this operation on December 28, 1978 notes, the project did
not fully realize its objective of improving road maintenance owing to the
adverse economic conditions in Chile. On the other hand, the report notes
that without the project, road maintenance in the country would have
deteriorated even more than it did.
58.        The fourth Bank operation in the subsector, Loan 688-CH (approved
in 1970), helped finance a Second Highway Construction Project.  Due to
conditions in Chile in the early 1970's, there was virtually no progress in
its execution through 1973. In 1974, the Executive Directors approved a
reduction in the project's scope and the revised project was successfully
completed in early 1979. The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 3258
dated December 30, 1980) related to Loan 688-CH assessed the factors which
caused delays in project execution; the report also drew attention to the
need for selective action to strengthen Vialidad with partir ular emphasis on
streamlining and strengthening highway maintenance organization. This need,
also recognized by the Government, has been an objective of the Bank's
subsequent lending in Chile for highways.
59.        The most recent Bank lending for roads, Loan 1927-CH, which was
approved in December 1980, provided for reconstruction of about 250 km of
badly deteriorated sections of the Longitudinal Highway, for preinvestment
studies and for strengthening of road maintenance. Execution of civil works
under this loan has been progressing very well and the loan disbursements, as
of year-end 1982, were 36 percent ahead of schedule. The execution of the
preinvestment studies provided under the loan is also proceeding
satisfactorily and the Government has made good progress in implementing
axle load limit regulations and in improving the effectiveness of the
country's road maintenance system (para. 54).
60.        Altogether, Bank Group lending in Chile for highways has provided
for construction, upgrading or rehabilitation of about 2,500 km of roads,
preparation of feasibility and final engineering studies for more than 1,500
km of roads, and for building of highway maintenance capacity through
technical assistance and procurement of maintenance equipment. As the
summary in the preceding paragraphs indicates, the execution of the Bank
Group-financed projects during the earlier part of the seventies was
adversely affected by major economic and political changes which Chile went
through during that period, including insufficiency of funds for recurrent
expenditures and rampant inflation. Starting with 1974, highway
administration in Chile has progressively regained effectiveness although,
until a few years ago, it has had to continue operating under severe
financial constraints. Vialidad showed a high degree of competence in
preparing the Bank's 1980 Road Reconstruction project and during the
subsequent phase of its implementation. This performance, as well as the
continuing need for institutional improvements, have been key factors in the
Bank's decision to proceed with the Second Road Reconstruction project
recommended in this report.



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
61.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission during its
appraisal of the First Road Reconstruction project. It was subsequently
prepared by Vialidad with the assistance of Chilean consulting firms. A Bank
mission appraised the project in September 1982 and a post-appraisal mission
visited Chile in December 1982 to complete the appraisal.  The mission's                      4
report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Second Highway Reconstruction
Project, Chile" (No. 4320b-CH, dated May 3, 1983) is being distributed
separately. Annex III contains a Supplementary Project Data Sheet.
Negotiations of the loan took place in Washington on April 18-21, 1983 and
the Chilean Delegation was headed by Mr. Remberto Urrea Muster, Director of
Vialidad.
Project Objectives and Description
62.       The project's principal objectives are:  (i) to arrest the serious
deterioration of some sections of the Longitudinal Highway, main transversal
roads and other selected main roads and bridges, by means of reconstruction,
rehabilitation or periodic maintenance of the affected sections; (ii) to
strengthen Vialidad's planning and management systems for road rehabilitation
and maintenance; (iii) to help Vialidad implement a multi-year highway
construction and maintenance program with proper balance between various
categories of expenditures; (iv) to assist Vialidad in definition of a
satisfactory program for maintenance of local roads; and (v) to support
studies related to the transport sector. The project would build upon the
institutional support being extended to Vialidad under Ln. 1927-CH.
63.       Specifically, the project would consist of the following
components:
(a)  civil works for: (i) reconstruction of about 435 km of the
Longitudinal Highway north of Santiago; (ii) reconstruction and
widening of about 140 km of main transversal highways; (iii)
widening of about an 11 km section of the main Santiago-Valparaiso
road; (iv) periodic maintenance (including shoulder reconstruction
and resurfacing) of about 1,400 km of main roads; and (v)
construction and rehabilitation of about 85 bridges and improvement
of bridge accessess;
(b)  procurement of:  (i) road maintenance vehicles and equipment; and
(ii) pavement evaluation and laboratory equipment;
(c)  consulting services for:  (i) project coordination and civil works
supervision; (ii) studies of roads and bridges; (iii) development
of pavement and maintenance management systems and local staff
training; and (iv) preparation of transportation sector and
preinvestment studies; and
(d) training of Vialidad staff in foreign countries on improved
planning and management for road maintenance and rehabilitation.



- 17 --
The project would be carried out over a period of approximately four and
a half years (June 1983 through December 1987) by the MOP (Vialidad), except
for the transport sector studies for which the MTT would be responsible.
Summary descriptions of the main project components are presented in
paragraphs 64 through 71.
64.       Reconstruction and Widening of Highways:  This would be the largest
project component, accounting for about 51 percent of the total project
*       cost.  As was stated in para. 45, the Longitudinal highway and many sections
of the main transversal roads have seriously deteriorated in recent years as
a result of unexpectedly increased and heavier traffic and inadequate road
maintenance.  The project works for the affected sections of the Longitudinal
Highway north of Santiago and for the main transversal roads both north and
south of Santiago would include rehabilitation of drainage, reconstruction of
pavement and widening of shoulders. A selected section of transversal road
(11 km) would also be widened to accommodate expected traffic levels. The
road section to be reccistructed under the project is located in the Northern
and Central Valley regions of Chile (see map attached).
65.       The main sections to be reconstructed under the project have been
selected on the basis of feasibility and engineering studies undertaken by
consultants under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. It was agreed
with the Chilean Delegation during loan negotiations that an adequate
technical and economic justification of the Santiago-Valparaiso road section
would be presented to the Bank for approval before loan disbursement
regarding this part of the project (para. 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the draft
Loan Agreement).
66.       Periodic Maintenance:  Approximately 29 percent of total project
cost would cover the cost of selectively resurfacing some 1,400 km of main
roads and reconstructing shoulders along these routes as necessary. During
the past 15 years, MOP has fallen behind in periodic maintenance of this type
-- required at 5-10 year intervals in Chile, depending on climatic conditions
and traffic levels. The program to be supported under the proposed project
is designed to reduce the backlog of deferred periodic maintenance and to
bring sections of the Longitudinal Highway and selected transversal roads to
standards suitable for routine preventive maintenance. The proposed periodic
maintenance program, which is relatively labor intensive, is also in keeping
with the Government's priority of moving ahead with activities which generate
jobs in a time of high unemployment. In the interest of greater efficiency,
while Vialidad would be responsible for the works envisaged, it would
contract out most periodic maintenance to private contractors. Vialidad's
contracting procedures are consciously oriented toward encouraging
labor-intensive methods.
67.       Bridge Improvements:  Many of Chile's approximately 10,000 bridges
were built to low standards and are aging; some are over 50 years old. They
constitute a serious bottleneck to traffic, particularly on secondary roads.
Some are also unsafe. To deal with this problem, MOP carried out a
preliminary survey of bridges focussing on those in Chile's rainy southern
region which is crisscrossed with rivers and streams. Based on the survey's
findings and priority needs, MOP has developed a first-phase bridge
improvement program which consitutes the proposed project's third largest



- 18 -
component -- equivalent to about eight percent of total costs. Under this
component, MOP would: (i) reconstruct and rehabilitate about 85 bridges
having a total length of about 4 km; and (ii) improve about 60 km of approach
roads to many of the bridges to be reconstructed or rehabilitated. A more
comprehensive, nationwide bridge survey would also be financed under the loan
(para. 69).
68.       Purchase of Road Maintenance and Laboratory Equipment:  Under this                  4
project component, which would account for less than 6 percent of total
project costs, MOP would purchase road maintenance equipment (trucks,
bulldozers, etc.), pavement research and laboratory equipment and some spare
parts. The road maintenance equipment would be used by Vialidad for routine
maintenance on Chile's Basic Network.
69.       Consulting Services and Training:  Nearly six percent of total
project costs would go for consulting services and overseas training.
Vialidad would use over 80 percent of these funds to retain consultants who
would: (i) supervise the execution of civil works and help coordinate
project implementation; (ii) carry out a detailed nationwide survey of the
country's bridge and road improvement needs; and (iii) train Vialidad
personnel in more effective maintenance management, including modern pavement
management practices. Under this component, Vialidad personnel would also
receive training and scholarships in foreign countries in the planning and
management of road maintenance and rehabilitation.
70.       The remaining funds for consultants' services would be used by MTT
to carry out two studies. The first would look into ways to convert one or
both of Santiago's two main ports -- Valparaiso and San Antonio -- into more
efficient installations through construction of better road and rail access
and enlarged container handling facilities. In addition, this preinvestment
study would consider the feasibility of constructing a container terminal in
Santiago. If found justified, detailed engineering for the Santiago terminal
would also be done. The second MTT study would assess the impact on the
transportation sector of deregulation and of reliance on the market
mechanism. The study would focus not only on the positive aspects of this
experience, but also on ways of smoothing out the sector's existing problems
such as the substantial oversupply of capacity in the trucking industry.
71.       In line with Vialidad's policy of hiring consultants for specific
activities rather than taking on permanent staff (para. 52), the proposed
project would require about 2,356 man-months of consultants' services (174
man-months, of which is expected to be provided by expatriates). The cost of
their services is expected to come to about US$4,000 per man-month for
Chileans and about US$11,000 per man-month for expatriates, including
salaries, overhead, airfares and subsistence. The qualifications and terms
and conditions of employment of consultants would be acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). Fellowships abroad for Vialidad
professional staff are expected to cost about US$10,000, each, on average.



- 19 -
Costs and Financing
72.       The project's total cost is estimated at US$273.3 million
including US$4 million in identifiable taxes and duties. Its foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$127.7 million, equivalent to about 47
percent of project costs. The Government would finance this operation's
local costs of US$145.6 million (53 percent of total costs). The Bank loan
of US$128.0 million, on the other hand, would cover all foreign financing
requirements including the US$319,202 front-end fee. Retroactive financing
of up to US$1.8 million would be allowed for expenditures made after May 1,
1983 for the initiation of studies and execution of civil works under the
project (para. 4 (a) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
73.       While overall Bank cost sharing for this project would be
47 percent, the proposed loan would be front-end loaded so as to cover 60
percent of project expenditures through 1985. Thereafter, the Bank's
contribution would decrease to such a percentage that would achieve, at the
completion of the project, an average percentage of disbursements for total
expenditures of 47 percent. If the current program for execution of the
project were neither accelerated nor delayed, this would result in the Bank's
contribution after 1985 comprising about 35 percent while that of the
Government would rise to about 65 percent. This approach would assist Chile
during its current fiscal and balance of payments difficulties (Part I) by
allowing Chile to shoulder the bulk of its contribution to the project in
later years, when the country's economy and the fisc's finances are expected
to be stronger. It would also help ensure that this high priority
rehabilitation-cum-maintenance project, which aims at restoring and
preserving the country's existing infrastructure base, would move ahead as
scheduled during a period of anticipated counterpart funds constraints for
the country. Given the transport sector's sound policy framework and Chile's
macro policies, which are designed to help the country weather the adverse
economic conditions facing it, the higher cost sharing proposed under this
loan through 1985 is warranted. This tailoring of loan disbursements is also
consistent with the Bank's recently approved special action program.
Procurement and Disbursements
74.       Procurement under the project would be in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines. Contracts for civil works estimated to cost US$2.0 million
or more each would be procured through international competitive bidding. Up
to a total amount of US$30.0 million, civil works contracts estimated to cost
less than US$2.0 million each would be awarded under MOP's procedures for
locally advertised competitive bidding, which are acceptable to the Bank.
Major highway construction and reconstruction works would, whenever possible,
be grouped into bidding packages -- expected to range from US$4 million to
US$23 million each -- so as to make these contracts more attractive to
international bidders. Minor contracts for periodic maintenance and bridge
construction and rehabilitation, with estimated costs ranging from US$100,000
to US$2.0 million each, would also be grouped, whenever possible, into
bidding packages ranging from US$400,000 to US$10.0 million, to make them
attractive for medium- and large-size contractors. Contracts for road
maintenance and research and laboratory equipment and vehicles with estimated
costs of US$50,000 or more would be subject to international competitive



- 20 -
bidding. Within an overall ceiling of US$500,000, contracts below US$50,000
could be procured under MOP's procedures for locally advertised competitive
bidding, which are satisfactory to the Bank. These procurement procedures
were agreed during loan negotiations.
75.       Disbursements of the loan would be made against the foreign
exchange components of the project, as follows: (i) 60 percent of total
expenditures for civil works until December 31, 1985; and at a percentage
that would achieve an overall contribution by the Bank to this category of
the project of 45 percent on average upon completion of the project (this
would be 30 percent after December 31, 1985 if the execution of the project
were not to deviate from schedule); (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures
of directly-imported goods, or 70 percent of their cost if locally
procured; (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 45 percent of local
expenditures for consulting services; and (iv) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for training and scholarships abroad. To expedite
disbursements, the Borrower would open a dollar-denominated Special Account
in the Central Bank of Chile on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. After effectiveness of the loan, the Bank would make an initial
deposit of US$5.0 million in this account. The account would be replenished
from the loan as withdrawals for eligible project expenditures were made
(Section 2.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Economic Justification
76.       In spite of major reconstruction work undertaken in recent years,
much of the Longitudinal Highway -- Chile's only continuous north-south trunk
road -- and of major transversal roads and bridges is in need of
reconstruction.   This has been due to:  (i) deferred maintenance in the
early and mid-seventies, owing to economic difficulties; (ii) sharp increases
in traffic following the economic recovery begun in 1976; and (iii) unchecked
use of heavier axle loads. In many sections, road pavements have broken up,
the shoulders have been eroded and bridges have fallen into a state of
disrepair and have even become unsafe. As a result, the driving time between
destinations has substantially increased, users' vehicles are suffering
extensive wear and tear and safety is being compromised, particularly at
night.
77.       MOP initially attempted to keep the road sections open through
costly emergency repairs and stepped-up routine maintenance. Because of
structural failures on segments of the 20-to-40-year old pavements, however,
this insufficient patchwork approach has been replaced by a reconstruction
program which was described above (para. 45).  Without these reconstruction
efforts, key sections of the Longitudinal Highway, major transversal roads
and bridges would have disintegrated, with heavy costs to the economy and
adverse effects on all income groups and sectors of economic activity.
Conversely, reconstruction and maintenance of the type supported by the
proposed loan would have a significant impact on the economy by widening
market opportunities, facilitating the availability of goods and increasing
the mobility of Chile's inhabitants. By eliminating major transport
bottlenecks, the project is also expected to stimulate investment, thus
helping to generate additional employment and output in key sectors. With
lateral main and feeder road improvements, it would directly benefit small
dispersed rural communities where some of Chile's poorest people live.



- 21 -
78.       The Bank's previous road reconstruction project, as well as the
large IDB-financed road reconstruction project now being implemented (para.
45), are both located in the Central Valley. The proposed project's most
important economic and social benefits would be felt in the Northern and
Central Valley regions of the country.  Tae Northern region, where about
two-thirds of the total project investments in civil works would be located,
accounts for a half of Chile's copper output. The road sections which would
be reconstructed or periodically maintained there under the proposed project
would provide better transport linkage between this important region and the
Santiago metropolitan area. The economic and social significance of this
linkage has increased significantly as a result of the recent closing of some
railway services to the area. The Central Valley, which would be the site of
the remaining third of the proposed civil works investments, is the nation's
heartland. About 70 percent of Chile's agricultural exports, 75 percent of
its food crops and virtually all of its forestry exports are produced there.
Large segments of Chile's rural and urban poor live in the areas to be
influenced by the proposed project and would, in varying degrees, benefit
from it as a result of easier, safer and faster access to the rest of the
economy. This would include shipment of agricultural products and farm
inputs.
79.       Commercial vehicles account for about 72 percent of traffic on the
Longitudinal Highway and transversal roads. The country's transport industry
consists mainly of small independent truckers and bus owners who operate on
these roads. They would be direct beneficiaries of the proposed project.
Because of the keenly competitive nature of Chile's road transport industry,
truckers and bus owners can be expected to pass most of their savings in
lower vehicle operating costs along to their customers in the forms of lower
real tariffs. Persons earning less than one-third the national average
household income would be major beneficiaries of lower bus fares since they
account for some 40 percent of bus passengers along the Longitudinal
Highway. Much of their travel is workl-related and consists, for example, of
poor urban dwellers who work seasonally in agricultural areas. Lower real
truck tariffs would also be translated into greater benefits for both Chile's
farmers and consumers of foodstuffs since the marketing of agricultural
products is also highly competitive.
80.       Finally, various civil works to be executed under the project,
particularly the provision for periodic maintenance for 1,400 km of the main
roads (para. 66), would add to employment at a time when unemployment
nationwide stands at over 20 percent. The direct employment impact of the
proposed project is estimated at a yearly average of about 1,600 additional
jobs during the project implementation period.
81.       The projects's overall rate of economic return is estimated at
about 40 percent. This breaks down to about 32 percent for the road
construction and reconstruction component, over 40 percent for the bridge
construction and rehabilitation component and in excess of 50 percent for the
periodic maintenance component. These are conservative estimates based only
on the quantifiable benefits to users from lower vehicle operating costs and
from savings in road maintenance. Other benefits such as passenger time
savings, reduced spoilage in agricultural goods and increased safety and
comfort to passengers are not included in these estimates.



- 22 -
Project Risks
82.       The proposed project presents no special risks.  All road segments
to be improved under the reconstruction component have been engineered in
detail, and Vialidad has qualified senior engineers to oversee their
execution. Vialidad's overall performance record, as demonstrated in the
case of the First Road Reconstruction project (para. 59), has been fully
satisfactory. The Government attaches high priority to the implementation of
the project and can be expected to provide the necessary counterpart funds
for it in a timely manner.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
83.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Chile and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
84.       The main features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in
the text of this report and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
85.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
86.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 3, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-23-                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
CHILE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
C1IILE                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICRTED AVE AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                           -  OST RECENT     lAT
TOTAL            150                                  MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCCME
AGRICULTURAL     173.8              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA 4 CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 360.0       900.0   2150.0                    1902.0                   2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(YILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     796.6      1225.9   1152.6                   125909                    2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 7585.0       9368.0  11104.0
LRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 67.8        75.2      80.1                    65.7                      47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      14.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        19.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EN.                       10.0        12.4      14.4                     35.2                     83.3
PER SQ. 1M. AGRICULTURAL LAND     53.9        58.9      62.8                     92.5                    155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
O-i4 YES.                         39.1        38.1      32.6                     39.7                     31.1
15-64 YRS.                         56.5        57.2      62.0                     56.1                     61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.3         4.8       5.4                      4.2                      7.7
POPULATION GROWTH SATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.1       1.7                      2.4                      1.6
URBAN                              3.7         2.1       2.3                      3.8                      3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    36.6         28.1      21.7                     31.4                     23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     12.4         8.9       7.1                      8.4                      9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.5         1.8       1.3                      2.1                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       216.7     265.8/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.0       104.0      95.0                   110.0                     116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  110.3       109.7    109.8/c                   108.4                    125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          70.6        70.8      70.5/c                   66.0                     92.7
OF WfHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      28.4        30.0      27.7/-                   34.0                     35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MCRTALITY RATE     17.8         8.6       2.2                      5.6                      9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   56.6         62.9      67.1                     64.2                     67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          113.9        82.3      43.2                     64.2                     65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
FOPULATION)
TOTAL                             62.0/d      59.6/e    83.6                     65.6
URBAN                             78.97T      63.17T    93.0                     78.9
RURAL                             11.47d      12.7Te   38.4                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        29.0      32.0/f                  59.3
URBAN                               ..        33.0      36.0/7                   75.3
RURAL                               ''        10.0      11.0/f                  30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          1784.7      2128.6/  1925.1                    1617.3                   1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      636.1       607.0    420.1                    1063,5                    634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            264.4       261.2    279.4/c                  477.4                     286.8
URBAN                            264.8       275.3    314.0/4                   679.8                    192.0
RURAL                               ''      1608.0    776.0/c                 1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..      28.0/c                   27.3                     20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4         5.1
URBAN                              5.2         5.0
RURAL                              6.0         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.7         1.4
URBAN                              1.6         1.3
RURA_                              2.0         1.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             70.6          ..      78.9/f
URBAN                             86.3          ..      90.07i
RDRAL                             23.9          ..      35.rT.



ANNEX I
- 24-                                           Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
CHILE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHILE                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA2ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                109.0        107.0     119.0                     104.3                     102.9
MALE                 111.0       107.0      120.0                    106.4                     107.1
FEMALE               107.0       108.0      118.0                    103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 24.0         39.0      55.0                      41.3                      60.2
MALE                  24.0        36.0       51.0                     40.4                      66.4
FEMALE                24.0        42.0       59.0                     41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  26.2          33.0      36.5                      33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              ..         50.0      31.1                      29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                          13.5         13.1      17.7                      16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        83.6         88.1         ..                     79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.6         18.8      28.2/c                   42.8                       51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        131.0        149.4     296.7                    270.5                      157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1         53.4     112.2                    107.7                      123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 131.6           ..      86.6                      63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                4.7       1.8                       2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2504.6       2885.2    3490.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   21.7         22.0      26.0                     24.4                       36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              30.5         22.6      19.2                      31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 20.0         21.0      19.4                     23.9                       25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                33.0         30.8      31.4                      33.6                      44.5
MALE                                 52.1         48.4       47.0                     50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                               14.2         13.5      16.2                      16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3         1.4       1.2                       1.3                       1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          51.4/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         4.41h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         13.47hi
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..                  360.0
RURAL                                       .                ..                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     640.0                     518.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                    371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOHE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URRAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
aaong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d Refer to piped water inside or outside occupied housing units; /e Refer to all households in
housing units only; /f 1975; /g Personnel in governcment services only; /h 1968.
May, 1982



ANNEX i
-25-                                                                          Page 3 of 5
PE5VINCTXNRS OP SOCIAL USID5C0T081
fitn    ltbosg,b tie data are dron  trot no--e  generally judged the most satho-tt-ti    and reliable, it shood also be noted that they may net be Inter-
otioally  -omarbie heroon  of the loch of stadardized deficitiots and concepts used by different contriss lit c-l1eotn   the dots.  The data ore,sae
thelen.-  aefal to descibe orders of  aotd-indicate tcnn,ad chreuer-i -rcetin major difference  ist tw                        -cotrien
The ref--e  e groom pr - 1  ode aeo   otr  group of the sob) -c  -oo-ay and (2) a country groop eitth nosftt higher averag  jocose clan the c...ntry gr..up
of tie  -u-c cuty(acp  for   "gh ino-                    oil Popoctorn  goou  where  'Middle fron-  North Attica ad Middle iantr Is chosen hecane of .trogef
aoiocncu-    nfitcno.Icc heref-dat-  group data tie -overue  ar   ooasaPeginIrc oi   os  ion eahidiaorad nhos  nnly sh-
naJortp of      ...c...lr  ak f    Igrop h.. daa  orrsc indiroo.-  SI-oe tie craeofoutIes amng cie codostar. depends no the aosd1nillty of dafa
an   nnt  ntt. comm   ous  he  -oerc  ed 1in roiaticg averg- of One iodlcat- to ivtber   Thoe.  averges ore asy   .eefl in -pting 'hev-IPP of
non1  " Inirtra  P tInt           h.nng .th   tunsy aed r-efterot   groo.?
A5118 lohnu....d oqk.e.)                                                                          PouainprfoPle   Be-d    ieai .aia, and rua-                     ooafo   tnl
loca  - oca  auism Ott  roprineg  andiro  an  inandeatra;  919dat,  uban  an  rost) divdd hy eheir repective number at haspiot  beds
bAC_ _Irntur-  - E.innote cf ogcicollcu  are  used cenpetorily or p-r-notly                       -eiI lah    In pablic and prinees gene.n  an d spectlind hapie  endre
far ocup., p-otu-e, mach-  and kicrhec gardoon or to Ile folloet I99data                      trab Iiadot      etes-Hsial   r   ntbitisento  pemaeni  ttnffed
bys =es   n   becn.' F.ntnh       Pi.n aproviding prtssipsllp  -nste-
INP _Phil A2fTAbUS$) - GNP pet capita ea Ist~   t  -cutca  nerket prices  -1l-                      dm.1 rare Pre see Jisded.  Rare, hopials  benet, istmde henith
luue    y sor -an -c fornebo  as World laoh Aclas (1978-do basin); 1960,                     an  mdiartoe r.t permanetly eta ffed by n phYsician (hut by a
1971, and 1998 data.                                                    n~~::Idedia. sssat  nt,midwife, arc.)  hsch offer is-panlent a"I
latias ned provide ahlted rang  at medicalislsin.Pa  stais-
ENERGY COSUPflf'TION mi GOPIC  - dA..-i cotnuepti-n of --rra.l eacegy (rea                          tlu   apntnea   opri  loolde   Et  etntpalgseea  heepisla,l
and ligoice, petroleum, natura  gas and hydro-. P.rea  ned geothectIa  "ele-                      ac   oa   opcl, lana  or... !as  baspitst and medical and maere
"Irtiy    ina           PEes   of  oi  oqoi-niant par -uPita; 19,I1970,ne  1919                  _eneoc..         . ipeilee  hosPital  oreI Imided  PeIy  _der total.
dat.-                                                                                           AdTsan   etHsialHd-             1oa   -s- of adl.issis  an or discharges
ranboPita1n dieldad by the nnte- of beds.
POPUlt.TiIANgiD VI1AL STATISTICS
latulpoultIn,fSd-Yes-  (ibausa..rds) - Au It July L; 1960. 1978,..ao  1988                  8HOUSING
irba- PapaaIo   (pret of tuto1) - Ratio of arbar to total popolotiac;                             Ahaaodcnit   fagopo   aiial   h   hr   iigqat
dltfoeut. dfiltan If or -u oeu  ay olfoc-  -upara.hclity of data                                and their nais meal.  A-badro   ogrmy or may an  be inclded Je
-nogcrcira;180  118,ad 1.98              _ dhcah.th   bnholdfaotacdaetra MI                                                       oe
Papulotian Projeritato                                                 Anaraga enter at reesoon per once-totsl. otban. neAversd rural -everogeb  .sda-1 -  -.g
Pop-lacla  In yea  lOll - Gurceas papulacioc  -rjecti-  ire bated an 1980                      her of persons .per earn In all ocne  and c',-a  occpied ...aevena
cttypI',aftian by age and seIad  hf   -ntu ity and fercility rates..dries  tetnerni-oly.  leelingnanlode  -.to-e-pam etsreiu=e.ad
Pr_jacin   p            Iaeor -o  ntlity r-t-  -aprln- of cAre  levals anum                  aocnpe  parra.
lo   il   opctac  ac bitch lucraas,,r -Ict, coor' ept -ipita  uoeAcnc   lecllafeco  of dml-ianl    .. toal  urban  ned r-n1 -
level. and finale lif.o    P- en nny _stah   i.00  at 77.1 rear.  lh,  as                    fovetina  dliogn  nth ectricity in living qanete-e Pe p--ostge
mees furfetility rate also her  cOco  15m         a   P.na  declineI Caf totl ,oIn.  aed rural                          71.S delionspsrenrly.
fertility accrding to incom  levels and ots Illy plnanieg perfuronc..
Eachoo-ty in tier alg-ed one of these. Por  -bniestiots of -sortuiy                     2 =lfiTlip
-ad foyLltldy  ceods farP- pra)rrlo  p-rpnen..Ajaa    aaI tRto
ilatiorary poeala IiIn.lPatatloaty  poyulotioo ther  is no groechui..e                   Prmryahol - total, male nnd female - Gass total, male asd tamal
tie, birch rtet in equal no rho feati rte, and oso the age .strucur   en-                      otra0lneet of aI ages at fhe pri-ey len..  us. percentages  f respective
maaPcrtot   Thin in -ctired only aftoc feetllfY aaron denier to                                yrimry aholaepnpalntiIIs;  -omaly includes childre  nged 6-11
ibo        t  P.aemo  lone  o f noi Ptat  eroocisrue -` ie .o-h geecsi-ie                      yeas hoc adjunted for different leogaho of primary eaaie   a
atwmnrelcsscelf enacLly.  The.rni r  populatiac site   a                               -uteina etch -i-toes1 education enrnl11et map encedi   pect
entlanted an tin banin of tie projected rhac-tneistirs of the Popslattue                        sInce san  popi1a It  bew or above the officul school age.
Iathe yP.e 2000, and lie race of d-clir.  If fertiit"y rtetno-eplace                        eoedary  scol-tta, male and femal  - ComPuted ae. ab_r  -etodary
_tc lrvnl.                                                                                     adora.tiont equfrt.s   leas..t Pan  y Pas  t  pproed petmay   -trsrtinn;
Ynoc sationay  poploticain reahed -Tic yea  ehen s-i--ay yapulotioc                    provides genera, v..catirea-,ort-ah triig instreti.s. foe papile
aloe trIll hr  -abed.                                                                          Psoay oP 12 to 17 years oP. age; oarepnn.d-ne  nnre  aegeseralp
Parolatnon sensity                                                         eacln~~~~~~I,ded.
Poe    k. a. - Old-ye-  populatta- Per sqore kilometer (Il horc-e) of                        Yncanieat l  eavlea(preto  scnay   Voratine..  insitutions
total area; 1960. 1970 oaf 1979 da_u                                                         include  ehntl  iados-fa, o  oheeparn   hc   prs                           ed
ocly; 1981, 1971 00d 1979 data...  .,                      I.                      poI"l-cuhr  at  - ocim- If   ned nnnaylan    tdes  rldi
PoplatI'ion Ann  rcrcre(pe-ce-n  -  hitld-ec (0-14 yn-r). so-hing-ef  (19-                       primaryband s-ndary 1roel  divided by eater  of machem   ic the
h  yearn). Petretired (hi yer  ant         vr s   parcanognaIf aid-yea  popo-                    --repaodnglee.
lonine; 1981, 1910,Tad 1988 da.t                                                              Adoit lieayet   pret) - Litertet adulte (able no red nd ante)
Pooais.cvhRaet(percent) - total -oanl- growob raeIf totel sid-                          usopectrnge of canal  Idt poyalatias aged 10 yeses nedovr
year pap.Ulnir  for 1950-f0. 196-Il, ad1970-90.
Po-lutII. fG-th sae  pecat  - nrban - arnal groeh cueIf n-i- popo-                           GlttStIftN
.rIars foe 195f-6d, 19hi-7l, ad197-~80.                                                      Passenger Corn (par thousand populutine) - P.sseege  cue .tnmpln  mt-
Crude Pieth  Hor(e   ioid)    .nallIve htraho Per thanand of sod-year                             _ cas 000t.a  lest eis  eight persons; sahae    mbloe,iersee ted
popolutIac; 1960, l9ll. ned 190        - daoilit-ry voilce-
Goode leth Rtac  (pro thousand) - an.ouI d-ahn pat thoo....    atid-yac                        Radio Receivers (pro  thousadppsain  - All tcpPs nf teceaer-  for radio
ppleo;1960, 1971, and 1991 data.                                                         bradanet  gara  pobtc  per ebeum-d atfoplaion                   eclde-me
Groan HoP-o-ti-n Ho1 c- Av--e 001te at duneh-et  a snou  sill hea  In                             1 treesderoiesi  cotnirt  and Io yeanie.  egistralt  fadio
her vrnat  epeodottaperiod if ahe aupacineona p-aseof ng-pifir fa-                       nets eon Ia eff-tn; dons tar recat years may oct hec-a...oble since
rubly ra-o; ....ally Ple-yea   --ergen rading to 19tf. 197.ad 191ae conties abolished licening.
yanily yiunnlng  A-cePtars, Annual   (tboo..ands) - iso-I sc,b-e  of accptors                  10  Teen        ettoso   ouain      V e--i-ea lee breade-t te
of btra--cut-o  d-ni-e  order aipoe  of notona Itfily planning p-g-an                           gen.ro  pbIcprthannad popolation; saclde  umlire..   1  rcivers
Pantyplncvglars(prcntofnaeld  orol-  aceoug  n  mrredin  --enies and In years sio.. gstaie -o    st  notIn effec.
publietattu   denoted primarily no  e-ardieg gRes   es   ninsidered
FOOD0 eo  fgfrIlIOh                                                                                 to hr`dolly" if Iraper   n  es  four..time  amh
Indn  f  au  Prdutin  cc   apta(h8971-li  -Ines  f  arca io oe nt hena  Sanaitedne  per farina Per Yea  - Honed as the oueIf
pendnrtinc of all food tansnndcf.irn.  Pradartiac occludes seed aed feed med  oloheta told during the year, Including eAtdm`lssiona noyr e.t  i-1Pd  drive-is..  tiedrmaseiI-
In or calendar year b.so-   Comsdilten rove  prli-Y gauda (e..9ngran                            n  anil  001t
imaeu-d of sngur)ebhih ar  edible and o--cieoo-ier-  (e.g. coffee and
tea oro  -eclded).  Aggrogate prodotiac at each coutry is hasd ce                         1LABOR FORCf
natioa  aveag I   prodoe  price soights; 1961-hI5, 19 70, oaf 1990 data,                     local Labor force (cosee   -          . "orncale anctr  person. irod
Per CaPito  upl  ofraoin(ect ofreuceets                            .tGnpcd ft. rasamd tnrcei sd neeslyed but  -acaisg I.se,                            es  stsdent, ec.
enrg  eqlvi-rotiof oat food sappifes avilable iPc ....nteppe  rs, pinocoso    pupulticool  gm.  PeInoesinrvncmeis
per day.  A-i--uhl  suppuces cunprie d--uca  ptead-rco-  sepur   lean                          not -ceparabla; 1980, 1970 nod 19g0 dsto.
rnac,od rha,oaeinlstatk   DNt n-Ppl     enclde -oleoltoe. seeda,                         Pmle(rea)- Panal  laor                 .rea  pe-"oIeofnaa'lbolore
q_antities noed Infood Procesing,  _d lose  in dietloinP.' Hoquiee-                            Agrtc-Itu,  (peren) -P-brfoc   nfomIng, fesr,bac    n
-en      i-r otefd by PA00.. aed 00 pY.i.l.gl-l arods foe  -ata  a-tl-                     finbiaga  pretga ofnaa  taho  f_te; 1961. 1970 and 1980 data
rity  sd  htalc th...cd-riog enniraenta1  -epentuter. body weights, age                       I.ndoscro  IPer.ree) - lbo   oree    agna, ..a-rotgas  me-fareurl
ard ne  dissttboclon   IpopulaIon,..  oaf allyIng 10 Par-n Ptar_ ...c a.t                        and elertaictn ana   r.d gasPa  pecntgIf total labor force;
bhothbridlevel; 1961-e5. 1978 nod 1977 data.                                                     1918. 1910 end 199  data,
Per. caita nurply o_f ocat-i  (groa  yr  dun) - p-ceJI  -toaet of Per caPpic                   P_rttciptlaa  late   prse   - .cna, male, sad  sae-Pripcmet
ll, eupply nf fond Per day.  Per, noypl  at  food in drfiand us above,  Ro-                    urilyocnrrtnidat                    oe     ae  ne  femle laborfortse _s
,.alrIeme st for oil    ..ontt c establIshed iy folDA proide far sed.it                        per-cge.sof cres, male nod female panaca               f all ages respntively;
alrorr   fh  Irenttoa  poei  per day  ad 20 grass of a-t-a  snd                                190 970. and 1988 dots.  These see  ae   n-t.'rpriiato    ae
Pulse pr_tei, at abc  10 gtama eb-ld be aine   eaec   These sad                                 elcIgaesnurcueo   i   ouoia   n   e   Ieced 
K                     nc~~~~~~~d'Is ar  lowe  than c"hie of 75 oroe  of t-c1 p-oteit and 23 gSta of                   few eanis-e  ate fra   aioa   oacs
aelnal PrteOnf 05 -0  -rerg  fur tho  -lrd, p-upc-d by PAO0 to rho Thurd                     Rovic._ dxcRai  NRania at population nader I an  65 ned oe
lanId road Sony; 1961-65, 1978 nod 1971 data,                                                  en the total labor  _or
Pet  -ocita prtlI, suply f-ansim    no   oie -preir supply of ford do-
ricd  ro  aetei  ndpuldses ingr.            pa -a;16-5, 1910 and 1977 data.                fiOe   tfhRT
Child laces 1-it Irati Rate (per  hbun)- annual death  Per thousad I.                          Pereae  tPiae   noe(ot   ncshadde)     oe d by elehene
ago grasp i-4 y-ne, tocidn   ttI   g   ro.frveodvlpn   oe                                         ece,rchs   1pret   ors   0pret. and ...rest 40 percent
erleu daga depted f-ro  life toblon; 1968, 1970 -ed 1980 data,                                 If heuseboida.
HEALTH                                                                                         POVEPTY 18AR011! G18U9S
LIE lprar         t pr   (yar) -dorage ausier of yenta If life  -eminiog                    The frlain-ncste   r  very app-uistt  -nar-  of povetyens
at birth; 1960, 1970 s.d 1980 duto.                                                            and ahoald he ineerprted with ra...lderaile roi
Ooset  .Plotlito  Race (per cbha-dl -  tnAnl- deths of unfesesu-d-c one fea                    Rnimated AbscIssa P-rety Ise-m  L.e  (uDs$ per cant) --b-n Pan  toal-
ofio  p r ...nnd Ine  i-tha;1960, IP   n  19Sf data.                                    .shselts Paveet  incmelee i siI  stat iaum  leve  belo  whicha  lIm
8ccea  t  Sae Oter(gecet o,  f o=uaia       ea,ubn,adttl-lo-aroLtnally adaee- dist pIns..                                           odltnfodrqieet  is net
bee nI p-oole (total, orion, asd coal   ith t.ss...hie aces  .o saf                            a'tfodble.
mtetean asto  f ranI Protece  borebele.s  apriege, and sa iniaywl) at1luRatelar tee  pooerp Income leve  in one-rued of  -,eege per capita
pser.eat-ge   of tbhir re-p-ti-e Ppop.taiaan.  lo atob abs area   public                       peranan  IIcme at the coumtay.  frin Ienet is derived f-ra  the total
f  issl  Ie atmdrose1.. lcted ent mere than 200 nete-  fro  a house may be                  leol with udjoatmeec f-o  higher ...c of lining In  ra tress-.
coasidered  s bebog wItin  esoaleaooso  thee hous. In h   .. I                            d otlaes l ti -Ie   P-op ..ati   gelawAbsouePceyIcm    ne   pcei         ra
teaseabe enens5oad ilythat the h.um--if. or mebr   fteisead                              adre        ecn   fpepubtine (sein  oaf rura)wh  se  0ienf
de  -n  haee pend.a disprapartinnte Poet of she day  in fetching she                           pn
faiy'   aeraeda.
.omb-r at people (sscsi. urne  an .trs) sevd  ycett  disposal as
the auieita  tad dispmal. with at wlt-at t-tetmet,  nis                   et
sA    at-ene  P, wttee-bnen  sytnm   on tie as  of pitprveensi-
lot ianaallsngaes.i
Psaltss!r Phyipsio    - Papantiun dietfd.  by samiet of praetistsg phyal-                                                      Penegead Socis  sass tftiaiss
etama qanlitid fro  a -di.tI .e.n-  at anleerity I.-Il.                                                                       leemA Olysta shd Peelecties  ep.ttsmes
PI,tie  o I'latting Peruse - P.pstle-i d  idltde  by esbt of peci4Map 1962
-Ic  sad fenei  etadene. sar. tes  anitan   ae    rcirlser  n
_asig  anliett



-26-                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
CHILE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:       10,700 (mid-1982 thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  USS2,150 (1980)
Amounts                Average Annual Increase (2)                 Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
(in millions US$ 1982           (at constant 1977 prices)         (Current prices except 1982, 1982 in 1977 prices)
but ratios in 1977 prices)   --------------------                      ----------           …--… --------
Indicator                                                            1965-70      1970-75      1975-82      1965         1970          1975         1982
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product                            23,650                  3.6           -0.3         2.0       100.0        100.0        100.0         100.0
Agriculture                                      2,205                  1.5            -           2.4        9.6           7.2          5.7           9.3
Industry and Mining                             8,365                   3.5          -1.7          3.1       40.4         42.6          32.7         35.4
Services                                        13,080                  3.8            3.7         1.1       50.0          50.2         61.6         55.3
Consu.ptlon                                       20,495                  4.9            0.0         3.8       81.9          83.7         97.1          86.7
Gross Investment                                   3,025                  3.4          -11.6         2.5        17.6         15.6          6.3          12.8
Exports of Goods and NFS                           6,275                  3.3            2.5        10.8       13.3          15.0         19.8          26.5
Imports of Goods and NFS                           6,145                  8.2           -2.7         9.4       12.8          14.3         23.2         26.0
Gross National Savings                             1,105                  4.3           -7.7        12.0        16.1         14.3          9.4          15.8
Amount
(million US$            Average Annual Increase (%)              Composition of Merchandise Trade
at current prices)           (at constant 1975 prices)                        (Current Prices)
1982               1965-70      1970-75   1975-80        1965         1970          1975         1982
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                              3,792.0                2.4            5.0        10.7      100.0         100.0        100.0        100.0
Copper                                        1,743.0                 4.6           4.1          4.7       63.0         75.5          54.1         46.0
Agricultural goods                              374.9                 5.8           2.1         23.2        3.5          2.9           5.4         10.0
Kanufactured goods                            1,178.8                 0.7          10.4         14.0       15.2         11.2          25.1         31.0
Other goods                                     495.3               -2.9            0.6        21.0        18.3         10.4          15.4         13.0
Merchandise imports                              3,580.0                7.3          -1.6         16.3      100.0        100.0         100.0        100.0
Food                                             185.2               -1.8           6.6         14.3       22.7         14.5          20.3          5.2
Nonfood consumer goods                          737.3                12.5          -1.2        47.6         7.3         10.0           5.2         20.6
Petroleum, oil, lubricants                       614.8                9.1           0.6         10.6        2.7          3.0          14.2         17.2
Octher intermediate b capital goods           2,042.7                 8.7          -4.1         14.0       67.3         72.5          60.3         57.0
1970              1975          1976        1977        1978         1979         1980          1981         1982
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP Deflator (US$)                                 100.0              108.9         137.1        168.3      157.6        196.1         241.5        274.5         230.0
Exchange Rate                                        0.01               4.9           13.1        21.5       31.7         37.3          39.0         39.0          50.9
Export Price Index                                 100.0              138.9         151.5        153.1      165.8        229.7
Import Price Index                                 100.0              208.8         222.8        234.0      248.6        327.4
Terms of Trade Index                               100.0               66.5          68.0         65.4       66.7         70.2
1965        1970      1975         1982
GENERAL GOVERIMENT AS 2 OF GDP
Current Revenue                                25.0         31.5       28.7         31.6
Current Expenditure                            24.0         28.3       22.7         32.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                     +1.0        +3.2       +6.0          -1.1
Capital Expenditure                             6.6          5.7        4.5          3.8
Foreign Financing                               0.0         -1.5       -2.9          0.6
1960-70   1970-75       1975-80     1981-82
OTHER INDICATORS
GDP Growth Rate (X)                             3.4          0.0        7.4        -14.0
GDP per capita Growth Rate (X)                   1.5       -1.8         5.9        -15.7
Energy consumption growth rate (X)              4.8        -0.3
ICOR                                            3.3       -17.9         1.2          n.a.
Marginal Savings Rate                           0.1          0.1        0.1          n.a.
Import Elasticity                               2.3          1.4        2.1         10.0
LCID
May 2, 1983



-27-                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
CHILE -BALANlCE OP PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL. CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions of 08$ at current prices)
sPopulation:        10,700 (mid-1982 thousands)
GNP Per Capita: US$2,150 (1980)
Eat.       Proj
1970        1973        1974        1975       1976        1977        1978        1979       1980        1981        1982       1983
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS
Net Exports of Goods & Services                -97         -293       -307        -503         100        -647    -1,185    -1,294        -2,084   -4,913         -2,488     -1,360
Exports of Goods & Services                1,274        1,468      2,351       1,842       2,425      2,621       2,984      4,746       6,276      6,130        5,495      5,600
Imports of Goods & Services              -1,371       -1,761    -2,658       -2,345      -2,325    -3,268    -4,169    -6,040           -8,360  -11,023         7,983       6,960
Net Transfers                                     6          14          14          12         49          96          86        105         113        100         106         100
Current Account Balance                        -91         -279        -293       -491         149        -551    -1,088       -1,169     -1,971   -4,813         -2,382     -1,260
Direct Private Investmen t                     -79           -5        -557          50         -1          16         177        233         171        376         -.a.         a
IMLT Loans (net)                               315          151         325         232        20'         436      1,709       2,089       2,423     3,713        1,719       1,232
Official                                     234          196        341         -62       -114         -12         356         451        -19       -156          680       1,201
Private                                       81          -45        -16         294         321        448       1,153       1,638      2,442      3,869        1,039 /1       32 /1
Other Capital                                 -109           35         480        -77          95          84       -143         -84         152       477         -535        -579
Chang. in Reserves (-=iocrease)                -36           98          45        286        -450          15       -654    -1,049         -775        247        1,198         607
International Reserves (net)                   409         -300       -345        -631        -181       -196         458       1,507       2,282     2,033          837         230
Reserves as months ofimports                      4        -          -           -           -           -              1          3           3          2            1          0
1970              1975          1976         1977          1978            1979             1980            1981             1982
CROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                               -                  -             -          --                              -               -               -                -
Cross disbursements of Public MILT Loans  397                     283           433          673         1,481           1,354             872            1,018
Concessional                                  47                 60            13          28            31               13
Biliateral                                    46                 46            12           26           28                7
IDA                                                                                                                      
other multilateral                             1                 14             1            2             3               6
N-n--coecessional                            350                223           420         645         1,450            1,241
Official Export credits                     51                46            97           43            50               79
IBRD5                                       27                16            15           12            17               13             1i4              30
Other Multilateral                           5                14             11          29            19               22
Private                                     67               147           297          559         1,364           1,127
TOTAL EXTERNAL. DEBT                         2,615             4,400         4,364        4,644         5,924            7,548           9,413          12,561
Public Debt Outstanding6 Disbursed           2,066             3,730         3,592        3,664         4,355            4,812           4,720           4,423
Official                                  2,910              2,487         2,312        2,052         1,907            1,669           1,537           1,416
IBRI)                                      ill               129           136          141           152              158             163             181
IDA                                         19                22            22           22            21              21               21              20
Other                                   2,780              2,336         2,154        1,889         1,734           1,490           1,353            1,215
Private                                      844             1,260         1,280        1,612         2,448           3,143            3,163           3,007
Undisbursed Public Debt                        468                632           698          978         1,259             725              367             514
Private E-xternal Debt                         549                670           772          980        1,569            2,736           4,693           8,138
DEBT SERVICE
Total Public and Private MLT Debt
Service Payments                          413                556           943        1,084         1,116           1,538           2,146            2,529           3,194
Interest                                     142               175           260          281           378              590             913           1,423           1,976
Payments as Z of exports                        33                 31            39           41            38              33              34               41              38
Avg. imt. rate on new pub./2 loans (T    6.9                      7.2           7.8          8.7          10.6            12.9            15.7             15.0
Official                                     6.5               6.1           6.4          7.8           8.0              7.5             9.2             9.2
Private                                      7.0               8.3           8.9          8.8          10.7             13.2            16.3            16.2
A:vg. maturity of new pub. loans (yra.)  11.4                    14.5          10.2          6.8           8.1             7.8             6.8             10.7
Official                                    19.7              19.4          16.8         17.3          15.7             18.7            14.6            19.8
Private                                     10.0              10.3           5.4          5.7           7.8              7.3             6.0             8.7
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE()
IBRD3 DOD/public DOD                           5.4                3.5           3.8          3.9           3.5             3.3             3.5              4.1
IBED disb./tnt. gross public dish.             6.8                5.7           3.5          1.8           1.1             1.0             1.6              2.8
IBRD debt service/tetal debt service           8.0                5.4           1.9          1.4           1.9             1.4             1.2              1.0
IDA DOD/total DOD                              0.9                0.6           0.6          0.6          0.5              0.3             0.4              0.5
IDA disb./tot. gross disburs ements           -------
IDA debt service/total debt service           -------
As % of Public Debt Outstanding
at end of December 1981
TERMS STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of public debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                     60.1
Principal due within 10 years                                    96.8
Interest structure of public debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                   11.5
/1 Includes an unknown quantity of direct private investment.
/_2 Includes private debt with public guarantee.
LCID
May 2, 1983



- 28 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHILE
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at March 31, 1983)
Loan or                                                      US$ million
Credit     Fiscal                                    Amount (less cancellations)
Number      Year    Borrower    Purpose                 Bank  IDA  Undisbursed
24 loans and one credit fully disbursed                314.2  22.9 1/  -
1832        1980    Chile         Water Supply         36.9   -      30.3
1902        1981    Chile         Agri. Credit          36.0   -      21.6
1927        1981    Chile         Road Rehabilitation 42.0   -        10.4
Total                                                  441.1  22.9
of which has been repaid                             177.3   3.2
Total now outstanding                                  263.8  19.7
Amount sold                       7.2
of which has been repaid        7.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                         263.8  19.7
Total undisbursed                                                     62.3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                              Type of              Amount in US$ million
Year          Obligor               Business          Loan    Equity       Total
1958, 1959 Empresa Minera de
and 1966      Mantos Blancos        Copper mining      3.10      1.24       4.34
1959, and   Fideos y Alimentos
1965           Carozzi S.A.         Food products       1.50     0.15       1.65
1960, 1961
and 1965    Cemento Bio-Bio S.A.  Cement                1.20     0.10       1.30
1963        Cia. Manufacturera de
Papeles y Cartones  Pulp and paper    3.00        -          3.00
1970        Minera Sagasa S.A.    Copper mining    10.45         0.45      10.90
1982        Inverchile              Money and capital  -         0.20       0.201
market
Total gross commitments                   19.25     2.14      21.39
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   19.25      0.70      19.95
Total Commitments now held by IFC    -          1.44       1.44
Total Undisbursed                      -        0.10       0.10
1/ Includes exchange rate adjustments. The original amount of the credit was
US$19.0 million.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
C.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (as at March 31, 1983) 1/
Loan 1832-CH          Water Supply Project; US$38 million Loan of August 15,1980;
Effective Date: November 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
After an initial delay of about six months, the execution of project
works in both the Santiago metropolitan area and in several medium-size cities has
been progressing satisfactorily.  Contracts for the preparation of final design
work for the Santiago area have been placed and the construction works will start
soon. Contracts, which represent about 40 percent of the total estimated project
cost, for purchase of equipment for medium-size cities were awarded. Although
EMOS (the project executing agency in the Santiago metropolitan area) did not
attain the four percent rate of return covenanted for 1982 under the loan, its
financial situation continues to be good because of a lag in projected
expenditures, increased efficiency and exceptional profits from short-term
investments.
Loan 1902-CH          Second Agricultural Credit Project:  US$36 million Loan of
November 3, 1980; Effective Date: January 30, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
Disbursement of the loan during the last two years has been slower than
the original estimates, mainly because of a lower credit demand by farmers. This,
in turn, reflected the farming community's concern about the general investment
climate, low profitability of farming enterprises, and increasing indebtedness.
These adverse conditions, which affected largely the medium- and large-size
farmers, are expected to improve during 1983 as a result of more realistic foreign
exchange and lower interest rates in the country. To speed up project execution
and better tailor project design to economic conditions, the Government requested
a modification in project description to include expanded extension services for
small farmers and incremental short-term farm credits. The modifications were
agreed to by the Executive Directors, on a no objection basis, on April 29, 1983.
Implementation of the project may extend beyond the current closing date.
Loan 1927-CH          Highway Reconstruction Project; US$42 million Loan of April 2,
1981; Effective Date: May 29, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1984
Execution of civil works under the project is progressing well; loan
disbursements are proceeding ahead of schedule.  A task force of MOP has prepared
a satisfactory maintenance and investment program (1983-89) for the main roads
(about 22,500 km). An Interministerial Commission has been set up to consider
ways to ensure adequate maintenance of local roads. Preinvestment studies
provided for under the project are also proceeding well.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
SECOND HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: Approximately 1-1/2
years
(b) Project prepared by: MOP, with the assistance of Chilean
consultants
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  March 1982
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  September 1982; Post-appraisal
Mission: December 1982
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:  April 21, 1983
(f)  Planned Date of Loan Effectiveness:  September 30, 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  The Government to provide the necessary financial resources to
Vialidad for implementation of its plan for construction and
maintenance of the Basic Network during the period 1983-1989
(para. 54);
(b)  The Government to submit to the Bank, before the end of June 1984,
a satisfactory plan for maintenance of local roads (para. 55); and
(c)  MOP to submit to the Bank satisfactory technical and economic
studies related to the proposed widening of the Santiago-Valparaiso
road before disbursement of loan proceeds for implementation of
this part of the project (para. 65).



C                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      
I                                                                             5'            .:                              ,_
P E R U  t   l      k                 <              w                     |           *- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AM   PIC
AP<Xw \ ~~-.                  T    ;  AP      °-f ________  .   .   |          O     ,     ____l/'-,_____0
-rRgN                                                                       z                                                                                )^<_0- Jt  
--P-P--    G oH ' 0                       or                                                        RE>^-NL  ,    P C]0 < A
'A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-W- {}-d; b: IA 'P;,
/                                          r      -        r-l -                F -            2
t= ~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -. _t                                                                    U ....O.8;  .... 0  L_ L     '+/       
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                   PERIUDC  A N%TE  ;z     r.NE PR _ LA
K-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
~~~~~~~K-                                                                    P)r'0E                         <;0;2~-r0' r,0<\-'4flhff'  rI\/   
;^.e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                                                 /                                        -P .  -< - ' 
==? j . .. . g ... ( C H ~I                    L     -                               KE
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-~ >~ ,Ii  _..                                                                                                             N   Ir>st3   --rcsdb.r  
=^~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~K                                                                 K 9               -Dra     ErSc u -rsrF ok  
er--r - -             n .    c                                                                           se ,n- <'Cml , si F;; _
L X e , . 1 4 ~~Sr



