                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                               Report No: ICR00001678



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-72250)



                                        ON A

                                       LOAN

                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$135.8 MILLION TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA

                                      FOR THE

      PROVINCIAL MATERNAL-CHILD HEALTH INVESTMENT PROJECT

            IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE PROVINCIAL

          MATERNAL-CHILD HEALTH ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN



                                  January 21, 2011




Human Development Department
LCC7 Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 20, 2011)

    Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
         Arg$ 1.00 = US$ 0.25
         US$ 1.00 = Arg$ 3.99

             FISCAL YEAR
         January 1 - December 31

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL        Adjustable Program Loan
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
COFESA     Federal Health Council (Consejo Federal de Salud)
DEIS       Directorate of Health Statistics
FESP       Essential Public Health Functions Project
FHP        Federal Health Plan
FM         Financial Management
FY         Fiscal Year
GAAP       Governance and Anticorruption Action Plan
GAC        Governance and Accountability
GOA        Government of Argentina
HD         Human Development
HSRP       Health Sector Reform Program
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
IMR        Infant Mortality Rate
INDEC      National Institute of Statistics and Census
INT        Vice Presidency of Institutional Integrity
IP         Indigenous Populations
IPP        Indigenous Peoples Plan
ISR        Implementation Status Report
IT         Information Technology
KPI        Key Performance Indicator
LIB        Limited International Bidding
MCHIP      Maternal and Child Health Insurance Program
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
NEA        Northeastern Region
MSN        National Health Ministry (Ministerio de Salud de la Nación)
NOA        Northwestern Region
NPV        Net Present Value
OP         Operational Policy
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PAP        Procurement Action Plan
PDO        Project Development Objective
PHIP       Provincial Health Insurance Project
PHM        Provincial Health Ministry
PRF        Project Result Framework
PSR        Project Status Report
PMCH-SAL   Provincial Maternal- Child Health Sector Adjustment Loan
PMCH-SAL   Provincial Maternal-Child Health Adaptable Lending
           Program
PMU        Project Management Unit
PUCO       Unified Health Care Coverage Register
QEA        Quality at Entry Assessment
QSA        Quality of Supervision
SEA        Strategic Environmental Assessment
TTL        Task Team Leader
UFI-S      International Financing Unit for Health - National Ministry
           of Health
Regional Vice President:   Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Penelope Brook
Sector Director:           Keith Hansen
Sector Manager:            Joana Godinho
Task Team Leader:          Rafael Cortez
ICR Primary Author:        Cecilia Zanetta
Contents
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
    1.1 Context at Appraisal.............................................................................................. 1
    1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
    and reasons/justification.............................................................................................. 2
    1.4 Main Beneficiaries ................................................................................................ 2
    1.5 Original Components ............................................................................................ 3
    1.6 Revised Components............................................................................................. 4
    1.7 Other significant changes ...................................................................................... 4
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 4
    2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry ................................................. 4
    2.2 Implementation...................................................................................................... 6
    2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization .... 11
    2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance ................................................................. 13
    2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase .............................................................. 15
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15
 3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation ........................................... 15
    3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives .............................................. 16
    3.3 Efficiency ............................................................................................................ 26
    3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating............................................................. 27
    3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts .......................................... 27
    3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops ... 30
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 30
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 31
 5.1 Bank Performance................................................................................................... 31
    5.2 Borrower Performance ........................................................................................ 33
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 34
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 37
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 39
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 44
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 53
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 55
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 58
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 59
 Annex 8a. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ..................... 65
 Annex 8b: Lessons of wide, general application ......................................................... 66
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 69
A. Basic Information
                                                                         AR-Provincial
                                                                         Maternal-Child Health
Country:                Argentina               Project Name:
                                                                         Investment Project
                                                                         (1st. phase APL)
Project ID:             P071025                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IBRD-72250
ICR Date:               01/25/2011              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:                THE ARGENTINE
                                                                         REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        USD 135.8M              Disbursed Amount:        USD 134.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 134.2M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 National Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/09/2003    Effectiveness:             11/23/2004       11/23/2004
Appraisal:             02/09/2004    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              04/15/2004    Mid-term Review:           06/30/2007       06/05/2007
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2009       07/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory Government:        Highly Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      9                     9
Compulsory health finance                                             68                  68
Health                                                                17                  17
Other social services                                                  3                     3
Sub-national government administration                                 3                     3


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                          25                  30
Health system performance                                             25                  30
Indigenous peoples                                                    13                  3
Population and reproductive health                                    24                  24
Social risk mitigation                                                13                  13

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Penelope J. Brook                    Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:            Joana Godinho                        Evangeline Javier
Project Team Leader:       Rafael A. Cortez                     Cristian C. Baeza
ICR Team Leader:           Rafael A. Cortez
ICR Primary Author:        Maria Cecilia Zanetta




                                               ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the project were to:
  (i) Halt increases in the national infant mortality and then reduce it by at least 20% at
the national level, and by at least 30% in the participating Northern provinces over a ten
year period;
  (ii) Support the implementation of a significant change in health service contracting
and management at the provincial level, and
  (iii) Strengthen the stewardship capacity of the national and provincial ministries of
health.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                                approval        Target        Completion or
                                              documents)        Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Reduced infant mortality rate (IMR)
                                                                            IMR of 14.6 in
                                          Reduction of at                   NOA and NEA
                                          least 30% in the                  provinces
                IMR of 25.0 in NOA and
Value                                     participating NOA                 equivalent to 41
                NEA provinces
quantitative or                           and NEA                           percent reduction
                IMR of 16.5 at the
Qualitative)                              provinces and at                  IMR of 12.1 at the
                national level
                                          least 20% at                      national level,
                                          national level                    equivalent to 27
                                                                            percent reduction
Date achieved 12/31/2003                  07/30/2010                        12/31/2009
                Achieved: This target was amply exceeded, both in terms of the expected
Comments
                reduction and time. Many factors have contributed toward the decrease in IMR
(incl. %
                between 2003 and 2009, including employment growth, and positive health
achievement)
                effects for program beneficiaries.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                           Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                             approval                          Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                            documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 : Percentage of target population enrolled in each of the participating provinces
Value                                   50% of target                        On average, 84.2%
                0% as the program did
(quantitative                           population in each                   of the eligible
                not exist
or Qualitative)                         participating                        population is


                                              iii
                                              province                           enrolled under the
                                                                                 Plan Nacer program
                                                                                 in the nine
                                                                                 participating
                                                                                 provinces, all of
                                                                                 them exceeding the
                                                                                 50% target
Date achieved     03/22/2004                  07/30/2010                         08/31/2010
                  Achieved: All nine participating provinces have exceeded the 50% enrollment
Comments
                  target with rates ranging from 68% of those eligible in Salta to 95% in
(incl. %
                  Corrientes in August 2010. The overall average rate was 84.2%, equivalent to
achievement)
                  over 565,550 beneficiaries.
Indicator 2 :     Percentage of authorized providers under annual agreements
                                                                                 In the nine
                                                                                 participating
                                                                                 provinces, at least
                                                                                 50% of all
                                              At least 50% of all                authorized
Value
                  0% as the program did       authorized                         providers have
(quantitative
                  not exist.                  providers in each                  subscribed to
or Qualitative)
                                              province                           annual agreements,
                                                                                 either directly with
                                                                                 the province or
                                                                                 through a third
                                                                                 party administrator
Date achieved     03/22/2004                  07/31/2010                         08/31/2010
                  Achieved: An equivalent of 71.4% of all providers have signed agreements and
Comments
                  some provinces have also implemented third-part agreements. There is a
(incl. %
                  consistently high level of participation with both types of agreements in all nine
achievement)
                  participating provinces.
Indicator 3 :     Percentage of tracer targets achieved by each participating province
                                                                                 All of the nine
Value                                         At least 50% in
                  0% as the program did                                          provinces achieved
(quantitative                                 each participating
                  not exist                                                      at least 50% of their
or Qualitative)                               province
                                                                                 trazadora targets.
Date achieved     03/22/2004                  07/31/2010                         04/30/2010
                  Achieved: All participating provinces achieved at least 50% of their tracer targets
Comments
                  by April 2010#ranging from 54% in Catamarca to 90.5 in Tucumán. Four
(incl. %
                  provinces achieved at least 75% of their targets, while overall the level of
achievement)
                  achievement was 74%

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     06/03/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/16/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.68



                                                  iv
  3   04/25/2005          Satisfactory       Satisfactory     3.72
  4   01/23/2006          Satisfactory       Satisfactory    23.35
  5   12/27/2006          Satisfactory       Satisfactory    47.58
  6   06/20/2007          Satisfactory       Satisfactory    55.55
  7   12/20/2007          Satisfactory       Satisfactory    74.18
  8   06/30/2008          Satisfactory       Satisfactory    90.64
  9   12/12/2008          Satisfactory       Satisfactory   103.41
 10   06/19/2009          Satisfactory       Satisfactory   116.63
 11   12/29/2009          Satisfactory       Satisfactory   127.81
 12   06/28/2010          Satisfactory       Satisfactory   132.35



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      In mid-2003, when the Provincial Maternal Child Health Adaptable Lending
Program (PMCH-APL) was first identified, Argentina was beginning to emerge from
the deep economic and political crisis that arose in December 2001. The economy had
already stabilized and economic growth had resumed. However, the devastating effects of
the crisis still posed serious challenges at all levels of government. The sharp drop in
income and rise in poverty that took place in the aftermath of the crisis resulted in the
deterioration of health indicators, as illustrated, for example, by a reversal in the
declining trend in infant mortality. In addition, the drastic drop in employment left
roughly 60 percent of the population outside the health insurance system, considerably
increasing the financial and service provision burden falling on provincial governments.
The crisis also made more evident the systemic problems underlying Argentina’s health
sector which, even before the crisis, performed below other middle-income countries in
the region despite having higher health expenditure levels.


2.      The Government of Argentina (GOA) responded to the new sector priorities
through its Health Sector Reform Program (HSRP), which included an integrated
package of pro-poor policy reforms intended to increase the availability and effectiveness
of public subsidies aimed at the health sector. One of the central pillars of the HSRP was
the Maternal and Child Health Insurance Program (MCHIP), which aimed at improving
the health conditions of uninsured mothers and children by guaranteeing the delivery of a
pre-defined health services package (so-called ‘nomenclador’), while simultaneously
introducing structural changes in the provincial health systems to improve the efficiency
of public financing and delivery of health services.

3. The Bank provided support to the Government’s MCHIP under a two-pronged
strategy. The Provincial Maternal- Child Health Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 7199-
AR; PMCH-SAL), which was approved in October 2003 for an amount of US$750
million, was designed to provide support for the necessary structural reforms at the policy
level. The Provincial Maternal-Child Health Adaptable Lending Program (PMCH-APL),
also known as Plan Nacer, was conceived as a complement of the PMCH-SAL. It was
approved in April 2004 for a total program amount of US$435 million to provide support
at the operational level for the implementation of the MCHIP in the country’s 24
provincial jurisdictions. The first of three phases originally envisioned under the MCHIP,
the Provincial Maternal-Child Health Investment Project APL-I (i.e., Plan Nacer or APL-
I), was approved in April 2004 for an amount of US$135.8 million.



1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators



                                            1
4.      The proposed loan is an integral part of the Government of Argentina’s
poverty reduction program and aims to support the implementation of the Maternal and
Child Health Insurance Program. The project will contribute to: (a) stop the increase in
infant mortality and further reduce it; (b) support the implementation of a significant
change in health service contracting and management at provincial level, and (c)
strengthen the stewardship capacity of the national and provincial ministries of health.
The Key Indicators for each PDO are as follows:

(a)     Stop the increase in infant mortality and further reduce it
    ƒ Measured changes in infant mortality rate (IMR) in the Northwest (NOA) and
    Northeast (NEA) provinces and at the national level.
(b)     Support the implementation of a significant change in health service contracting
and management at provincial level
    ƒ Percentage of annual performance agreements between the National Health
    Ministry (MSN) and Provincial Health Ministries (PHMs) successfully implemented.
    ƒ Percentage of authorized health care providers under annual performance
    agreements and provider payment mechanism with its respective participant province.
    ƒ Percentage of tracer targets—i.e., agreed output and intermediary outcomes
    goals—achieved by each participant provinces in each billing period.
(c)     Strengthen the stewardship capacity of the national and provincial ministries of
health
    ƒ Percentage of target population enrolled in each of the individual participating
    provincial Maternal and Child Health Insurance Programs (MCHIPs).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

5.     The PDOs remained unchanged throughout the life of the project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

6. The program had a strong poverty focus, targeting:
ƒ Pregnant women and children without health insurance coverage, including: i) all
   uninsured children up to their sixth birthday; ii) all uninsured pregnant women; and iii)
   all uninsured mothers for up to 45 days past their date of delivery or miscarriage.
ƒ The nine provinces in the NOA and NEA regions (i.e., Catamarca, Chaco, Corrientes,
   Formosa, Jujuy, Misiones, Salta, Santiago del Estero and Tucumán). These provinces
   are the poorest in the country, with almost a fourth of all households having
   unsatisfied basic needs (UBNs) according to the 2001 census, compared to 14.3
   percent for the country as a whole. These provinces also exhibit the highest infant
   mortality rates, with an average of 25 infant deaths (one year of age or younger) per
   1000 live births compared to 16.5 for the country as a whole in 2003.
ƒ The program also included special outreach activities to the indigenous population,
   traditionally a poor and excluded group. Roughly 75 percent of Argentina's indigenous
   population—i.e., 9.9 percent of the country’s total population—lives in the NOA and
   NEA provinces.

                                             2
7. Not eligible population that attended health care facilities enrolled in the
program were also indirect beneficiaries, as they benefited from the improvements in
service delivery due to the receipt of project funds. Each manager decided the specific
uses of the project funds received under the program within the guidelines given by the
corresponding provincial ministry of health (PHM). All provinces allowed the purchase
of equipment and other goods, while some provinces also allowed a portion of the funds
to be used for salary incentives or hiring of additional personnel.

1.5 Original Components

8. Component 1: Implementation of the Maternal-Child Health Insurance
Program (US$112.1million)
 This component provided financial support for:
ƒ Capitation payments for MCHIP services by the MSN to participating provinces
   covering a declining share of a package of basic service costs on per capita basis;
ƒ Equipment (i.e., medical, transportation and communications) for basic health care
   facilities that supply the MCHIP package;
ƒ Technical assistance and training programs to PHMs for developing systems,
   instruments and skills necessary for implementing and running the MCHIP;
ƒ Training for health care providers in delivering the MCHIP package of basic services;
   and
ƒ Equipment and consultant services for upgrading and expanding information systems
   for monitoring the implementation of the MCHIP.

9. Component 2: Strengthening National and Provincial Ministries of Health
Stewardship Capacity (US$6.4 million)
This component provided financial support for:
ƒ Reorganizing the MSN’s and PHM’s mandates, staffing and relationships;
ƒ Improving epidemiological information, financial and human resource management
   systems;
ƒ Streamlining the regulatory and planning capacity of MSN and its dependent public
   health program units;
ƒ Conducting studies essential for MSN policy formulation; and
ƒ Preparing the APL-II.

  10. Component 3: Communications and Community Outreach (US$4.2 million)
This component provided financial support for:
ƒ Dissemination of detailed information about the program among major stakeholders
groups;
ƒ Community outreach to increase participation of the targeted population, including
the production and implementation of the campaign elements specially adapted to
language and cultural needs of indigenous population.

11. Component 4: Program Monitoring, Evaluation and Concurrent Auditing
Systems (US$3.9 million)

                                          3
This component provided financing for:
ƒ Information Technology (IT) to upgrade the monitoring of health provider
performance, aggregation and reporting of information;
ƒ Concurrent auditing; and
ƒ Evaluation activities, including the completion of the baseline for impact indicators,
and a Mid-term and End-of-project impact evaluation.

12. Component 5: Project Management and Administration (US$1.3 million)
This component provided financing for incremental national contractual staffing,
consulting services, operating costs, office equipment, and in-country travel required for
project management through the national Project Management Unit (PMU) and
provincial PMUs.

1.6 Revised Components

13.    The project’s components were not revised during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

14. First Loan Amendment: The loan agreement was modified to reallocate loan
proceeds to increase the Capitation Category to: i) add congenital cardiac pathologies to
the original benefit package; and ii) to extend the 100% financing on the part of the
national government until December 2008. This amendment was approved by the Bank
on July 7, 2008.

15. Second Loan Amendment: The project’s closing date was extended from
December 31, 2009 to July 31, 2010. In addition, provincial co-financing of Capitation
Payments was further modified, limiting it to 30 percent rather than 60 percent as
originally anticipated. This amendment was approved by the Bank on October 27, 2009.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.    This ICR rates the project’s QAE as highly satisfactory, as its innovative and
thorough design was a key factor determining its success. The main strengths can be
summarized as follows:

ƒ High relevancy: Project preparation denoted a deep understanding of Argentina’s
  complex health sector, the lessons learned from the Bank’s rich health sector portfolio,
  and the difficult circumstances the country was going through. A centerpiece of the
  2004-2007 Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Argentina, the project was
  fully aligned with the CAS’ overall objective of helping reduce the extent and severity
  of poverty in the aftermath of the crisis. More importantly, the Provincial Maternal-
  Child Health Investment project APL I was fully owned by the Government, since it
  responded to the National Health Ministry’s (MSN) own Health Strategy Reform Plan

                                            4
  (HSRP). The project’s overall design was the result of a close collaboration between
  the Bank and a highly committed leadership at the MSN, which compellingly
  championed the maternal-child insurance program at both the national and provincial
  levels.

ƒ Pro-poor focus and sound sequencing: By focusing on uninsured mothers and
  children in the country’s poorest provinces, the Provincial Maternal-Child Health
  Investment Project APL-I maximized its impact on poverty at a critical time.
  Likewise, the project’s sound sequencing for expansion, both geographically and in
  terms of health care services maximized its chances of success.

ƒ Recognition of the important role of provincial governments in health care
  delivery to the poor: Given Argentina’s federal structure, the delivery of health
  services to the poor is largely the responsibility of provincial governments.
  Recognizing this, the project’s design effectively forged a new relationship between
  the national government and the provinces, with the national government providing
  incentives to provincial governments to improve specific health services and outputs.
  Also very important is the flexibility that the project provided provincial governments
  to define specific aspects of the MCHIP, respecting their autonomy.

ƒ Sound results-oriented systems of incentives: A strong results-oriented system of
  incentives was incorporated into the project. Disbursements to provincial governments
  were tied to their achievement of : i) enrollment targets; and ii) a set of clearly
  specified output and intermediary outcomes goals –called tracers or “trazadoras” (in
  Spanish), such as the proportion of eligible pregnant women receiving early prenatal
  care and the proportion of eligible newborns scoring high in the post-delivery neonatal
  evaluation. In turn, disbursements to health care providers were based on service fees
  for specified health care services provided to the eligible population. These incentives
  were critical to the project’s overall success.

ƒ Strong framework for M&E and systematic learning: The development of robust
  M&E to effectively monitor the achievements of individual provinces regarding the
  agreed tracers was a high priority from the onset of the project, as disbursements to
  provincial governments were directly linked to it. Likewise, M&E systems were
  implemented in all participating provinces to track enrollment and services provided
  by individual health care providers. In addition, an independent concurrent audit was
  incorporated in the M&E arrangements to verify and validate the reported
  achievements at both the provincial and health care provider levels, which has proven
  highly instrumental to the program’s overall operation. Finally, the methodology to
  carry on a set of impact studies was conceived early on in the process, which laid the
  foundations for a rich knowledge base upon the project’s implementation experience.

ƒ Optimal choice of lending instrument: The preparation team correctly identified the
  long-term nature of developing a maternal-child health insurance program and the
  learning potential of gradually incorporating provincial governments to the program.
  The choice of a Horizontal Adjustable Lending Program (APL), with three phases
                                            5
  expanding over nine years, provided an excellent match to the nature of the project.
  Moreover, the APL program was effectively articulated with a complementary health
  sector adjustment loan—the PMCH-SAL. While the PMCH-SAL provided strong
  financial incentives and a clear road map for the structural changes needed at the
  national level, the PMCH-APL operation provided the technical assistance required to
  implement the maternal-child health insurance program at the provincial level.

17.     While there were no significant weaknesses in the program’s design, an
observation can be made regarding the project’s approach toward ensuring its
sustainability over the medium and long term. As originally conceived, provincial
financing for the MCHIP was going to increase gradually over the life of the project,
from 0 percent, then to 30 percent, and lastly to 60 percent. An initial analysis of the
financial implications of the MCHIP had shown that it was affordable, very cost
effective, and within the means of the poorest provinces. Moreover, by strengthening
payment and cost recovery systems from other insurance providers, the Plan Nacer
project was going to further enhance the MCHIP’s financial sustainability. However,
since the program was seen by the MSN as a key instrument for guiding and stewarding
health sector policies, the GOA preferred to avoid increasing the counterpart funds to 60
percent as a way of maintaining its stewardship role and reinforcing the Federal health
policy strategy on the PHMs. Therefore, an unexpected trade-off between financial
sustainability and stewardship arose. With the benefit of hindsight, it is now clear that
provincial financing, even at 30 percent, was not always forthcoming as shown by the
difficulties that some provinces had in complying with provincial co-financing in a timely
manner.

2.2 Implementation
Several factors affected project implementation, including:
Factors beyond the control of the Government and the Implementing Agency

18.     From crisis to recovery: Although project preparation, which began in mid-
2003, took place in a very difficult environment, the critical economic and social
conditions that prevailed in the aftermath of the 2001-2002 crisis provided a unique
window of opportunity for advancing reforms in health care delivery and financing while
adequately responding to the crisis. Specifically, increases in infant mortality rates and
malnutrition, particularly in the Northern provinces, were not only an indicator of the
grave social conditions but also a political stigma. Likewise, the additional financial
support provided under the project was particularly attractive at a time when provincial
financial resources were scarce. These factors, combined with strong leadership at the
national level and sound project design, allowed the project to respond to the needs
arising from the crisis and also provided a window of opportunity for important changes
in primary health care delivery and financing at the provincial level. The sustained
improvement in macroeconomic conditions and the political stability that prevailed
throughout the life of the project also contributed to its smooth implementation.




                                            6
19. Shrinking of the eligible population: The strong economic growth that took place
during the life of the project, which averaged 7.2 percent per year between 2004 and
2009, went hand in hand with a rebound in employment and the corresponding expansion
in formal health insurance. By 2009, the percentage of the country’s uninsured population
had declined by roughly 10 percentage points compared to 2004—i.e., from 42.4 to 32.8
percent. The same trend, although less accentuated, was observed for the participating
provinces, with the percentage of uninsured population decreasing by roughly 7
percentage points between 2004 and 2009—i.e., from 48.6 to 41.7 percent. This decline,
which resulted in an equivalent reduction in the number of uninsured mothers and
children, had a negative impact on enrollment, the achievement of tracer targets and,
consequently, on the project’s disbursements. To address this issue, the Bank agreed to a
methodology for annual revisions of the target population. In addition, the MSN
requested the inclusion of new services into the benefit package to absorb the surplus in
the project’s funds. In May 2008, the Bank and MSN agreed to include congenital cardiac
pathologies in the basic health package.

20.     Flu epidemic: The A/H1N1 influenza epidemic that took place in 2009 impacted
the provision of services under the project. Health care providers shifted their efforts to
respond to the epidemic and mothers preferred not to take their healthy children to health
care centers to avoid exposing them to the virus. At the MSN’s request, the Bank agreed
to delay the increase of the goals for those tracers focusing on routine health exams (i.e.,
tracers VIII and IX) until late 2009.

Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
At the National Level

21.     Political support at the national level: The preparation of the Plan Nacer
program benefited from strong ownership on the part of the MSN. The Minister of Health
himself was closely involved in the design process and actively ‘championed’ the project
among provincial health ministers gathered under at the Federal Health Council (Consejo
Federal de Salud – COFESA). The Bank supervision team worked closely with the new
authorities to address some procurement concerns and support for the project was
reinforced.

22.     Share of national and provincial financing: As mentioned earlier, the original
project design envisioned the gradual increase of provincial co-financing for the MCHIP,
from an initial 0 percent, to an intermediate 30 percent, up to a maximum of 60 percent.
The original financial scheme was later modified, limiting the share of provincial co-
financing to 30 percent. This modification reflected the desire on the part of the MSN
authorities to expand their influence on provincial health policies, which had been
negligible since the responsibility for health care provision was transferred to provincial
governments in the early 1990s. The fact that provincial governments did not always
make their co-financing resources available in a timely manner suggests that requiring
higher levels of provincial co-financing may have negatively impacted project


                                             7
implementation. However, it poses greater uncertainty regarding the project’s
sustainability in the medium and long term.




At the Provincial Level
23.     Political support at the provincial level: The project benefited from substantial
support at the provincial level from the onset. Factors that contributed toward provincial
support included the project’s focus on critical health indicators such as infant mortality,
the attractive financial resources associated with it, the level of flexibility allowed to
provincial governments, and the strong lobby on the part of national health authorities in
the context of the COFESA. When the project was first launched, all of the nine
participating provinces had already set up their PMUs and one of them, Tucumán, had
already embarked on the challenging implementation process. Over time, however,
differences in ownership and support for the project at the provincial level became
apparent. Not surprisingly, the project had the greatest impact in those provinces in which
provincial health authorities had greater stability and a strategic vision that was aligned
with the principles of the project. In these provinces, the project was utilized as a tool to
carry out the province’s own health policy agenda and was closely interconnected with
other health programs financed by the province or the national government.

Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
At the National Level
24.     Collaborative approach: The project’s institutional arrangements assigned full
responsibility for project implementation at the national level to a self-standing PMU.
While this arrangement served to ensure a more expedient implementation, it also had the
potential to insulate the Plan Nacer from the rest of the MSN. While this seems to have
been the case during early stages of implementation, the PMU at the national level is now
fully integrated with those areas of the MSN with which there is an overlap, such as the
Maternal and Infancy Directorate. Furthermore, the Plan Nacer has become an important
operational tool for these MSN areas to induce the adoption of national policies at the
provincial level. The national PMU’s strong commitment toward fostering participation
and inclusiveness was a key factor in ensuring the project’s integration within the MSN,
as well as a close working relationship with the project’s provincial PMUs.

25.     Unusual implementation complexity: This was a very challenging project due to
both its inherent technical complexity and the low institutional capacity of the NOA and
NEA provinces. Provincial ministries of health faced several difficult challenges to set
the program in motion, including enrolling beneficiaries, setting up contracts with
providers, implementing the M&E systems that supported the project’s disbursement
scheme and negotiating health goals for the tracers with national authorities. It took
almost two years after the project’s approval—i.e., until January 2006—for the various
project elements to be in place at the provincial level—i.e., signing of the Umbrella
Agreement between the MSN and the PHMs, signing of the agreements between PHMs

                                             8
and health care providers, and making at least one payment to health care providers. This
was a significant accomplishment considering the complexity of the various tasks and the
provinces’ limited implementation capacity. Fortunately, these challenges were factored
into the realistic disbursement projection included in the PAD.

26.     Preparation of the APL-II: The targets that had been specified as triggers for the
preparation of the APL-II were reached earlier than anticipated. This, together with
strong political pressure from the remaining 15 provinces and the desire on the part of the
national authorities to capitalize on the ongoing momentum prompted the decision to
advance the preparation of the APL-II almost six months ahead of schedule. The decision
was also made to consolidate the second and third phases, thus including the remaining
15 provinces. While the APL-II did indeed capitalize on the existing momentum,
successfully expanding the MCHIP to all provincial jurisdictions its earlier and more
intense preparation put the implementation capacity of the provincial MHO and the MSN
to the test. Likewise, since APL-I provinces were still in the process of setting up their
programs at the time of the preparation of the APL-II, advancing its preparation may
have lessened the learning potential embedded in a horizontal APL program.

27.    Strong need for technical assistance: The reforms introduced by the Plan Nacer
program are demanding, both technically and institutionally. Its implementation has
required substantial technical assistance from the national PMU to both provincial units
and health care providers. It would have been desirable for provincial PMUs to play a
more active role in providing technical assistance to health care providers within each
province, as it was very difficult to perform this function at the national level because of
the logistical difficulties and the differences in the way the program was structured in
each of the provinces. Given that the weak institutional capacity of the participating
provinces posed a strong risk to the project’s successful implementation, this function
would have merited a higher profile within the national PMU and an explicit counterpart
and source of financing at the provincial level.

28.     Communication aspects: The Bank preparation team rightly recognized the
importance of the communication aspects of the program, thus including a self-standing
component to support this function. Communication aspects were of vital importance
since, to be successful, the Plan Nacer program required a drastic change in two
dominant paradigms. First, it supported the shift in the financing of health care delivery
from the traditional budgetary model to a results-based framework. Second, it represented
a significant policy shift, away from the cash-transfers programs that were put in place to
contain the 2001-2002 emergencies and toward programs that support a long-term
development agenda. Specifically, although programs such as this one with a focus on
expanding access to basic services—i.e., health care—play a crucial role in combating
poverty and enhancing equality in the medium and long terms, the poor often tend to
place more value on cash transfers and other ways of income redistribution. Changing
this perception was important to enhance public support for the program, thus enhancing
its long-term sustainability. While implementation of this component started well and
effectively established the Plan Nacer as a recognizable brand in all participating

                                             9
provinces, it subsequently lost momentum and continued to perform below expectations
until the end of the project. As a result, the target population still has a limited
understanding of the health care services that they are entitled to under the program,
which weakens the demand-side dimension of the program.

29.     Potential for economies of scale: The Project being simultaneously implemented
by multiple entities—i.e., provincial governments and health care providers within each
province—offers a great potential for economies of scale and integration. In the case of
the Plan Nacer program, there is the opportunity to develop management tools at the
national level to be used by the provinces to support their program’s implementation, thus
capitalizing on potential economies of scale and easing the institutional burden on those
provinces that chose to utilize them. The same applies to the development of tools at the
provincial level that can be used by individual health care providers. Moreover, the
development of such systems could be seen as the first step toward developing an
integrated, nation-wide health information system. While the national PMU and some of
the provincial PMUs have taken some steps in this direction, the project’s potential for
economies of scale and integration remains largely untapped.

30.     Potential for cross-fertilization: The parallel implementation of the project by
several entities can also serve as an incubator, fostering the generation of innovative
solutions for common problems. The ultimate impact, however, depends on the ability of
higher levels of government to recognize the value of an innovation and its potential for
replication, and to ensure its dissemination among other participants. The national PMU
capitalized on this potential during the preparation of the APL-II by showcasing the most
innovative and successful experiences of the APL-I provinces. In addition, since mid-
2009, it began organizing regular national workshops, with the participation of all
provinces. However, there is still great potential for further cross-fertilization and
horizontal learning through, for example, the creation of social networks promoting the
exchange of information among provincial PMUs and health care providers on various
aspects of the program.

At the Provincial Level
31.     Use of funds by health care providers: Having health providers determine the
specific use of the funds they received under the project has proved to be a phenomenal
incentive, effective in lessening their resistance to change and conducive to behavior
modification. Funds were used in a myriad of ways, reflecting the overall guidelines
adopted at the provincial level and the specific preferences of heath care providers. For
example, some provinces permitted the payment of salary bonuses. Preliminary
experiences suggest that these bonuses were soon perceived by employees as part of their
salary, quickly loosening some of their impact. A full-fledged impact evaluation of this
approach is currently underway. Other provinces permitted the contracting of additional
temporary personnel, which, in the case of Tucumán, eventually had to be permanently
incorporated in the provincial payroll due to pressures from labor unions. In general, the
experience of APL-I provinces in relation to the use of funds indicates that, while it is
important to provide a framework that promotes the efficient use of resources from the

                                           10
perspective of the provincial health care delivery system while, at the same time,
preserving the incentives of individual health care providers. Thus, a difficult balancing
act is required in this regard.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The development of a sound M&E was an important priority at the design stage, with one
of the project’s components being specifically focused on M&E. Several elements
supported the project’s M&E system, as follows:

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design
32.     Project Results Framework (PRF): It included a robust battery of
outcome/impact indicators aimed at capturing the project’s overall impact, as well as
intermediary indicators aimed at monitoring and assessing the achievement of the
project’s main outputs. It can be noted that changes in infant mortality rates (IMRs),
which was one the project’s Key Performance Indicators, are affected by many variables
that go beyond the project’s area of influence, such as economic conditions. Fortunately,
it was complemented by a strong set of tracer targets and impact studies that allowed the
impact of the project on IMRs to be better gauged.

33.     Enrollment and tracer targets: The results-oriented framework was built upon a
sophisticated set of indicators focusing on: i) annual enrollment targets based on the
forecasted eligible population within each province; and ii) a set of ten additional tracers
aimed at tracking the effectiveness of the basic service package (technical evaluation) and
the performance of the service provider system. Achievement of these targets determined
the capitation payments for individual provinces—i.e., 60 percent and 40 percent based
on the achievement of enrollment and tracer targets, respectively.

34.     Concurrent audits: An independent audit (i.e., concurrent auditing) was also
included in the project’s M&E framework to verify the veracity of the information
provided by health care providers and provincial governments in terms of enrollment,
service provision, and tracer achievement.

35.     Systematic learning: A set of impact studies was envisioned early on during
project implementation, which allowed enough time to develop a sound methodological
approach and the construction of baselines.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Implementation

36.      PRF: The project’s outcomes and outputs were adequately monitored throughout
the life of the project.

37.     Enrollment and tracer targets: The national PMU and the Bank team worked
jointly to determine annual enrollment and tracer targets. This arrangement allowed the

                                            11
flexibility needed to fine-tune methodological and operational definitions of the various
targets without requiring modifications to the Project Operating Manual. In turn, the
PMU negotiated and signed Annual Performance Agreements with individual provinces,
which specified provincial enrollment and tracer targets for each year. Initially, the
negotiated goals for the ten tracers were much lower than expected, but they increased
substantially during subsequent periods, in large part due to pressure on the part of the
Bank’s supervision team. An important modification was made to the tracer-based
payment scheme in early 2008 to provide stronger incentives to provincial governments.
Under the original scheme, provinces were paid ‘all or nothing’ (i.e., 0 or 4 percent)
based on whether or not they achieved the annual tracer target.1 This arrangement was
replaced by an incremental scheme tied to three thresholds of tracer achievements, for
which provinces received 2 percent, 3 percent, up to a maximum of 4 percent of the
capitation payment for each tracer target. This scheme proved to be much more
conducive to improving performance than the previous one.

38.     Concurrent external audits: Concurrent external audits were regularly
conducted in each of the participating provinces. Fines and debits were deducted from
capitation payments to provincial governments (equivalent to 8.2 percent of cumulative
payments as of August 2010) in those cases supporting information was incomplete,
health care services were not provided as specified, or eligibility criteria did not apply. In
turn, provincial governments made the corresponding deductions in the payments to
health care providers.

39.     Impact Evaluation: Two impact studies were conducted using administrative
data from the provinces of Misiones and Tucumán, which are particularly robust in
relation to that of other provinces. Using a quasi-experimental design, access to health
care services provided under the program’s package and health impacts were compared
for project participants and a comparable control group2. In addition, the project baseline
survey and the exogenous interventions studies carried out at the beginning and during
project implementation provided lessons about the behavior of health care providers.
Results are reported in detail under Section 3.2 – Assessment of Outcomes and Annex 3,
section (c ) – Impact Evaluation Analysis.

1
   As mentioned earlier, capitation payments to provincial governments were based on the achievement of:
i) enrollment targets (i.e., 60 percent); and ii) tracer targets (i.e., 40 percent). With ten tracer targets, the full
achievement of each tracer target was equivalent to 4 percent of the capitation payment.

2
  By using an instrumental variables approach, the impact evaluation in Misiones and Tucuman controls for
exogenous characteristics that may affect the health outcomes of interest. In particular, the study uses fixed
effects at the provincial and health provider level to control for specific provincial or provider
characteristics as well as variables for each year to control for possible effects arising from macroeconomic
shifts. The use of dummy variables for each year (2006, 2007, 2008, 2009) as well as the fixed effects from
the provinces control for differential economic shifts over time. The Project had a substantial impact in
health outcomes controlling for income effects caused by the economic growth occurred during the period
of project implementation.




                                                         12
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Utilization

The project’s M&E system served not only as a mechanism for data compilation but also
as a valuable input for subsequent analysis contributing substantially to improving project
management. In this regard, it is important to underscore the ability of the different areas
within the national PMU to reflect upon the project’s implementation experience.

40.     PRF: The PRF, in conjunction with the tracer targets, was useful as a pulse-
taking devise to gauge progress and to measure the project’s overall impact.

41.     Enrollment and tracer targets: These were critical elements of the project’s
operational scaffolding, providing objective measures to link payments to results. With
the benefit of hindsight, it is now evident that there were some overlaps between some of
the ten tracers. Likewise, although they all carried equal weight in terms of
disbursements, they required disproportional levels of effort to achieve the tracer targets.
Also, the enrollment indicator could have been improved by requiring that the beneficiary
had at least one contact with the health care provider each year. The latter would be
addressed in the design of the Provincial Health Insurance Project (PHIP) that is currently
under preparation.

42.     Concurrent external audits: The certification of results made by the concurrent
external auditing firm has served to better assess the institutional challenges faced by
provincial governments in improving Maternal and Infant Mortality. The concurrent
audit financed under the project validates that enrollments and health indicators targets
were met, ensuring fiduciary transparency and accountability of the payment for results.

43.     Impact studies: Since most of these studies are still ongoing, they had a limited
impact on project implementation. However, they can be expected to help build a sound
knowledge base from the project’s rich implementation experience. The two studies that
were completed focusing on Tucumán and Misiones have been very valuable in isolating
the effect of the project in relation to health service provision and health impacts.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental and Social Safeguards
44.     Environmental Safeguards: The project was classified as a ‘C’ project
according to the Bank's Safeguards Policies. However, the GOA decided that the project
would also finance a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) as part of the
strengthening of the MSN’s capacity to plan and anticipate health risks among the
population.

45.    Social Safeguards: Compliance with the Indigenous Peoples Safeguard (OD
4.20) was Satisfactory throughout the life of the project. This safeguard was triggered
since the project was implemented in the NOA and NEA provinces, which have the

                                            13
highest share of indigenous people in the country. An Indigenous Peoples
Implementation Plan was developed by the GOA, which included specific actions to
ensure inclusion of indigenous people in the MCHIP, while the specific strategy for
addressing the needs of the indigenous population in individual provinces was included in
the corresponding agreements between PHM and the provinces. A specific set of
monitoring indicators was included in the project’s M&E system to identify the inclusion
of and service delivery to this group of beneficiaries.

Financial Management
46.     The financial management (FM) function of Bank-financed projects in the
health sector is undertaken by the International Financing Unit for Health (UFI-S), an
operational unit within the NMH. The rating for FM was Satisfactory throughout the life
of the project, with accounting and financial reporting, budgeting and treasury operations
being implemented as outlined in the Operations Manual (OM). In addition, annual
audited financial statements were generally received by the Bank before the due date of
the Loan agreement; reviewed and found acceptable. Despite some audits being qualified,
no material accountability issue was reported. A Bank review conducted in December
2008 found that, despite generally effective internal controls, there was scope for
improvement and a series of recommendations were made to enhance UFI-S’ and NMH
operational processes and systems and internal controls, including adoption of a Code of
Ethical Conduct for program staff. UFI-S has begun implementing these
recommendations, which have also been incorporated into the Operational Manual.
Likewise, ethical behavior covenants have been incorporated into staff contracts of the
UFI-S and PMUs.

Procurement
47.     The Procurement aspects of the project were deemed satisfactory until June
2008, when they were downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU) and remained that
way until the end of the project. The downgrading was the result of subsequent PPR
missions and the findings of an investigation into the implementation of three Bank-
financed projects under the orbit of the MSN (i.e., Plan Nacer APL-I Loan 7225-AR; the
APL2 VIGI-A Loan 4516-AR; and Essential Public Health Functions Project FESP I
Loan 7412-AR). In the case of the Provincial Maternal-Child Health Investment Project
(Plan Nacer phase I), misprocurement was declared in 3 cases due to a) award to a bidder
whose bid did not meet the bidding document requirements pursuant to the provisions of
pars. 2.57 and 2.58 of the Procurement Guidelines; b) award under shopping procedures,
with less than 3 quotations, as opposed to the provisions of par. 3.5 of the Procurement
Guidelines; and c) technical specifications amendment was distributed with insufficient
time for bidder consideration as provided in the paragraph 3.5 of the Procurement
Guidelines —totaling US$ 1,579,080.00 million.

48.    This investigation was launched at the request of the then Minister of Health, as
shortcomings in procurement had been identified in the case of some contracts, including
inadequate quality of the technical specifications for the procurement of goods. The same
findings were highlighted in an ex-post procurement review conducted by the Bank
between February and April 2008. In response, the Bank’s Vice Presidency of

                                           14
Institutional Integrity (INT) initiated an investigation in mid-2008 of a selected sample of
contracts of the three above-mentioned projects. The investigation was completed and the
findings were referred to the GOA in October 2010.


49.     While the INT investigation was on-going, the MSN and the GOA were
actively engaged in addressing the issues through the implementation of a Procurement
Action Plan (PAP) for improving the performance of MSN. The PAP was developed
based on the findings of the 2008 ex-post procurement review and included
recommendations to strengthen the dissemination of bidding opportunities to suppliers
and procurement capacity strengthening in general. Even though the high turnover of
UFI-S staff between May 2008 and June 2009 caused considerable delays in the
implementation of the PAP, a number of actions were implemented from mid-2009
onward, including: (i) changes in staffing of UFI-S and enhancement of its capacity
through training workshops; (ii) strengthening of internal processes and reporting
mechanisms, including the development of sample reports for preparation of technical
specifications; (iii) review of project standard bidding documents and the creation of a
supplier database used as a source of information for invitation to quotes and market
reference prices; (iv) exclusion of Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures; and
(v) public advertising of purchases under shopping procedures for contracts with
estimated value between US$50,000 and US$100,000. In addition, the UFI-S has played
an active role in providing information to the Bank team for the INT investigation, and in
updating its OM.

50.   Compliance with covenants: All covenants stipulated under the Loan Agreement
were met.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
51.     A second and final APL—i.e., the Provincial Maternal-Child Health Investment
Project in support of the Second Phase of the Provincial Maternal-Child Health Program
(Loan No. 7909-AR for US$300 million)—was approved on November 2, 2006 to
support the implementation and scaling up of the MCHIP in the remaining 15 provinces.
On May 31, 2010, the Loan Agreement of the APL-II was modified to include the nine
NOA and NEA provinces, thus effectively extending financing for the Plan Nacer in
these provinces until its closing, which is anticipated for December 2011. In addition, the
PHIP (US$400 million), which is currently under preparation, would further extend
financing for an expanded package of health care services, including those provided
under the Plan Nacer, for all provinces until December 2015, its expected closing date.
Moreover, the PHIP will maintain the same results-oriented framework and institutional
arrangements that were introduced under this operation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

52.    The project’s objectives, which were highly relevant for the health sector and for
the country as a whole at the time of its preparation, remain fully relevant today for both

                                            15
the national government and the provinces. The MSN’s health sector reform program—
i.e., the Federal Health Plan (FHP)—which began its implementation in 2003 and infused
the original conception of the Plan Nacer, continues to reflect current sector priorities.
Provincial governments are also fully supportive of the health care reforms originally
introduced under the Plan Nacer, as illustrated by their continuous participation in the
APL-II and the strong interest they have demonstrated in participating in the PHIP,
which, as mentioned earlier, is currently under preparation and would expand the
framework of the Plan Nacer to include additional health care services and a wider target
population.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
53.     The achievement of the project’s PDOs is deemed Highly Satisfactory, as
actual progress has surpassed even the most optimistic initial expectations. The specific
achievement for each of the project’s PDOs is summarized below:


54.     PDO 1 - To halt increases in the national infant mortality and then reduce it
by at least 20 percent at the national level, and by at least 30 percent in the
participating Northern provinces over a ten year period.: The achievement of PDO1
is considered Highly Satisfactory, as the decrease in Infant Mortality Rates (IMR)
between 2003 and 2009 amply exceeded the ten-year program targets, both for the
country as a whole and for participating provinces. Likewise, the gap in IMR between
participating (i.e., NOA and NEA provinces) and non-participating provinces (i.e., the
APL-2 provinces) was reduced by roughly half during the life of the project. Finally,
results from impact studies conducted in Misiones and Tucumán indicate statistically
significant health impacts among project participants relative to the control group,
including greater weight at birth and the virtual elimination of the probability of dying at
birth.


55.    To halt increases in IMR and then reduce it by at least 20 percent at the
national level – Achieved The steady decline in IMR experienced throughout the 1990s
was interrupted by the country’s economic collapse in December 2001. As is the case
with other socio-economic indicators, IMR worsened during 2002 and 2001, increasing
from the 16.3 infant deaths per 1,000 live births recorded in 2001, to 16.8 and 16.5 in
2002 and 2003, respectively.
                  Figure 1. Evolution of Infant Mortality Rates Argentina – 1989-2009
                                                                           30
                                     Infant deaths per 1,000 live births




                                                                           25


                                                                           20


                                                                           15


                                                                           10


                                                                           5


                                                                           0
                                                                           1989   1991   1993   1995   1997   1999   2001   2003   2005   2007   2009


Source: DEIS (2010)
Note:   Preliminary data for 2009.




                                                                                                              16
56.     As shown in Figure 1, the IMR began to decline again from 2004 onward,
except for a slight increase in 2007. Overall, the IMR at the national level declined from
16.5 to 12.1 between 2003 and 2009—equivalent to a 27 percent reduction, amply
exceeding the 20 percent ten-year program target. This reduction in IMR is, of course, the
result of many factors, not least the robust growth rates experienced from 2004 onward,
which averaged 7.2 percent per year between 2004 and 2009. However, results from
impact studies conducted in Misiones and Tucumán indicate the Plan Nacer had positive
health impacts among its beneficiaries, suggesting that the project contributed toward the
decrease in IMR.

57.    To halt increases in IMR and then reduce it by 30 percent among
participating provinces – Achieved The IMR experienced a particularly sharp decline
among participating provinces. Specifically, the IMR in NOA and NEA provinces
declined from 25.0 to 14.6 between 2003 and 2009—equivalent to a 41 percent reduction,
amply exceeding the 30 percent ten-year program target.
                                                Figure 2. Evolution of Infant Mortality Rate
                                               Participating versus all provinces – 2003-2009
                                                                      27.5
                                Infant deaths per 1,000 live births




                                                                      25.0      25.0


                                                                      22.5


                                                                      20.0                   19.1

                                                                      17.5     16.5                      16.7        16.7
                                                                                                                                16.3
                                                                                                                                             15.1
                                                                      15.0                   14.4
                                                                                                         13.3                                            14.6
                                                                                                                     12.9       13.3
                                                                                                                                             12.5
                                                                      12.5
                                                                                                                                                         12.1

                                                                      10.0
                                                                             2003         2004         2005      2006        2007         2008        2009
                                                                                       All Provinces                        Participating provinces

Source: DEIS (2010)
Note:   Preliminary data for 2009.



58.      Reduction in the gap in IMR between participating and non-participating
provinces – Not a KPI As a result of the sharper decline in IMR among participating
provinces vis-à-vis non-participating ones, the gap in IMR between the two groups has
been significantly reduced. As shown on Figure 3, while the average IMR in NOA and
NEA provinces was almost 50 percent higher than that in the remaining provinces in
2004, this gap was reduced by almost half by 2009, to 25 percent. Nevertheless, there are
still large disparities in IMR across provinces, ranging from 4.6 in Tierra del Fuego to
20.5 in Formosa in 2009.




                                                                                                                17
                                                                       Figure 3. Gap in Infant Mortality Rates
                                                           (IMR in NOA and NEA provinces / IMR in remaining provinces)
                                                            Participating versus non-participating provinces – 2004-2009
     IMR for NOA and NEA provinces /   1.50
       IMR for remaining provinces                  1.48

                                       1.45
                                                              1.42     1.43

                                       1.40
                                                                                1.38

                                       1.35

                                                                                         1.29
                                       1.30

                                                                                                 1.25
                                       1.25


                                       1.20
                                          2003   2004       2005     2006     2007     2008     2009    2010




Source: DEIS (2010)
Note:   Preliminary data for 2009.

    59. Other Health and Information Systems Impacts3
      a) Achievement of tracer targets
      Two of the ten tracer targets focused on health impacts. Their positive evolution
      during the life of the project indicates that there were health improvements among the
      Plan Nacer beneficiaries, although these cannot be directly attributable to the
      program and reflect improvements in both actual outcomes and registration processes.
      These tracer targets include:
      ƒ Tracer II – APGAR score4-Tracer II recorded babies with an APGAR score of 6
          or more six minutes after birth. The evolution of this tracer over the life of the
          project shows a significant increase, from 3.7 percent of the agreed target in
          August 2005 to 89 percent in April 2010—ranging from 66.2 percent in Santiago
          del Estero to 112.1 percent in Misiones.

     ƒ                                    Tracer III – Weight at birth-Tracer III recorded babies that weighed 2,500
                                          grams or more at birth. The evolution of this tracer over the life of the project
                                          shows a steady increase, from 8.6 percent of the agreed target in August 2005 to
                                          81.1 percent in April 2010—ranging from 62.2 percent in Catamarca to 109.4
                                          percent in Misiones.

     b) Impact Studies: The robust set of administrative data available in the provinces
        of Misiones and Tucumán has permitted a quasi-experimental design to compare
        health outcomes between participants of the Plan Nacer program and a
        comparable control group (Gertler et al., 2010). Preliminary results from the
        studies conducted in these two provinces indicate that the project has had
        significant health impacts in relation to weight at birth and mortality at birth.

3 A tracer target is considered to be met once it reaches 100 percent achievement. In addition, it is
important to highlight that tracer achievement reflects two different effects that cannot be separated. There
is an effect based on health outcome improvements, while on the other hand there is an effect that arises
from the improvements in health information systems and registration processes.

4
     The Apgar score is determined by evaluating the newborn baby on five simple criteria on a scale from
zero to two, then summing up the five values thus obtained. The resulting Apgar score ranges from zero to
10. The five criteria are: i) appearance; ii) pulse; iii) grimace; iv) activity; and respiration
(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apgar_score).

                                                                                                        18
    Weight at birth
    60. Results from Misiones indicate that babies born to Plan Nacer beneficiaries
    weighed significantly more than babies born from non-participant mothers—i.e., an
    additional 69 grams, which is roughly 2 percent more than the average weight of babies
    in the control group.5

    61. Results from Tucumán confirm the previous finding. Specifically, they
    indicate that babies born to Plan Nacer beneficiaries weighed significantly more than
    babies born to non-participant mothers—i.e., an additional 64 grams, which is roughly 2
    percent more than the average weight of babies in the control group.6

    62. Results from Misiones also indicate that babies born from Plan Nacer
    beneficiaries are significantly less likely to weigh below 1,500 grams at birth than
    babies born from non-participant mothers—i.e., 4.7 percent less likely than babies in the
    control group.7

    Infant mortality at birth
    63. Results from Tucumán indicate that, while babies born from non-participant
    mothers face a 4 per thousand probability of dying at birth, this probability was
    drastically reduced for babies born to Plan Nacer beneficiaries.8

    64. PDO 2 - To support the implementation of a significant change in health
    service contracting and management at the provincial level

Annual Performance Agreements
 65. Percentage of annual performance agreements between the National Health
 Ministry (MSN) and Provincial Health Ministries (PHMs) was satisfactorily
 implemented – Achieved. The MSN signed annual performance agreements with the
 Provinces every year. The key targets agreed for measuring the successful
 implementation of these agreements were achieved in enrollment and health targets, and
 capital investments.
 66. Percentage of authorized health care providers under annual performance
 agreements and provider payment mechanism with its respective participant
 province – Achieved A total of 2,140 out of 2,999 potential health care providers had
 signed agreements with their respective provincial government as of August 2010—
 equivalent to 71.4 percent of all providers. The OM considers two types of mechanisms
 to pay health facilities. Four provinces have opted to implement third-part
 implementation agreements, by which hospitals and other entities carry out the

5
      P < 0.01.
6
      P < 0.01.
7
      P < 0.01.
8
      P < 0.01.

                                              19
administrative functions of the smaller health facilities. The remaining five Provinces
used direct agreements with health facilities. Taking both types of agreements into
consideration, the level of participation of health care providers was very high across the
nine participating provinces—i.e., an average participation rate of 90.4 percent, ranging
from 90 percent in Misiones to 100 percent in Catamarca, Corrientes and Salta. Thus,
the target of at least 50 percent of all health care providers under annual performance
agreements is considered to have been met. Six out of nine provinces substantially
exceed the 50% target with an average of 92% of health facilities providing signed
agreements.

                     Table 1. Health Care Providers under the Plan Nacer
       With signed agreement and third-party administration arrangements – August 2010
                         Health Care Providers      % Providers with     Providers with
                      Signed agreement                                                  % of all providers
Province                                                 signed            third-party
                                                                                        under Plan Nacer
                        No       Yes      Total        agreement         administrators

                        (a)      (b)       (c)           (b) / (c)            (d)          ((b) + (d)) / ©
Catamarca                  -        368       368                100%                                 100%
Corrientes                 -        313       313                100%                                 100%
Jujuy                     90        177       267                 66%                85                98%
Salta                    292        151       443                 34%               290               100%
Santiago del Estero      262        135       397                 34%               236                93%
Tucumán                   10        315       325                 97%                                  97%
Chaco                    165        140       305                 46%               161                99%
Formosa                    2        191       193                 99%                                  99%
Misiones                  37        350       387                 90%                                  90%
Total                    858     2,140     2,999                 71.4%              772               90.4%
Source: Progress Report – Cápitas (PMU, Aug. 2010)

67.     Out of the 2,145 that had subscribed to an annual performance agreement
with their provincial government, only 279 did not provide information on tracer
achievements. This indicates that the large majority of health care providers are actively
participating in the program—i.e., 87 percent.

68.    Overall, 79 percent of health care providers with annual performance
agreements have requested payment for services provided under the program. In seven
provinces, this percentage is greater than 75 percent, while in two provinces—i.e.,
Catamarca and Formosa—it is less than 50 percent.



Achievement of tracer targets

69. Percentage of tracer targets achieved by each participating province in each
billing period – Achieved. All participating provinces achieved at least 50 percent of
their tracer targets during the period January-April 2010— ranging from 53% in Catamarca
to 84% in Misiones. As shown on Table 2, four out of nine provinces achieved a coverage
rate of above 70%, which was the average coverage rate considering all participating

                                                    20
provinces. In addition to this it is important to highlight that all the participating
provinces managed to reach at least the minimum threshold of the goals in half of the
tracers. Tucuman and Misiones stand out as they reached the minimum threshold for 9
and 8 of the 10 tracers
                                    Table 2. Achievement of tracer targets by province
                                                    January to April, 2010
                            I        II       III      IV      V        VI      VII      VIII    IX      X        Total
      Catamarca             11.5%    70.8%   62.2%     58.8%   100.1%   41.3%   76.2%    12.2%   2.4%    98.4%     53.4%
      Jujuy                 45.4%    94.3%   88.4%     86.4%   96.1%    68.4%   97.0%     7.8%   40.5%   100.0%    72.4%
      Salta                 36.3%    78.3%   70.2%     61.0%   85.1%    43.1%   59.9%    26.8%   40.8%   81.3%     58.3%
      Santiago del Estero   34.8%    66.2%   64.9%     67.4%   99.8%    35.6%   64.4%    19.2%   49.4%   74.0%     57.6%
      Tucumán               51.3%    92.2%   80.5%     59.5%   108.2%   76.8%   90.0%    65.7%   81.5%   103.8%    81.0%
      Corrientes            46.6%   101.2%   88.6%     94.6%   125.9%   91.4%   99.4%    16.1%   37.9%   100.7%    80.2%
      Chaco                 45.7%    99.5%   88.2%     64.2%   60.1%    70.4%   81.7%    33.4%   50.1%   84.9%     67.8%
      Formosa               42.5%    81.3%   74.0%     71.7%   98.3%    57.1%   82.4%     7.5%   35.1%   101.1%    65.1%
      Misiones              74.6%   112.1%   109.4%    83.1%   101.1%   42.4%   111.6%   55.5%   49.2%   100.8%    84.0%
      Total                 45.4%    89.0%    81.1%    70.6%    93.6%   58.9%    83.0%   31.5%   48.5%    91.7%    69.3%

Source: Progress Report (PMU, August 2010)

70.     PDO 3 - To strengthen the stewardship capacity of the national and
provincial ministries of health.9 The achievement of PDO3 is considered as
Satisfactory, as there is ample evidence that access to health care—as well as the
systematic recording of the services rendered to the target population—has improved
significantly over the life of the project. Expanded health care services are reflected
partly by the large number of eligible mothers and children that were enrolled in the
program. This, which was the agreed KPI for this PDO, was far exceeded. The expansion
of key health care services is also reflected in the steady improvement in performance of
tracer targets that monitor critical health care services. Finally, the two impact studies
conducted in Misiones and Tucumán also show greater access to prenatal and well-child
care for beneficiaries of the Plan Nacer. It is important to note, however, that there are
significant differences across provinces in terms of the expanded health care under the
Plan Nacer. Likewise, significant challenges still remain to expand early detection of
pregnant women and well-child controls for all provinces.
Enrollment rates
71.     Percentage of target population enrolled in each of the individual
participating provincial Maternal and Child Health Insurance Programs (MCHIPs)
– Achieved All nine participating provinces have amply exceeded the 50 percent
enrollment target, with enrollment rates ranging from 68 percent of eligible population in
Salta to 95 percent in Corrientes in August 2010. The overall enrollment rate for all APL-
I provinces was 84.2 percent—equivalent to over half-million beneficiaries.

                            Table 3. Enrollment Rates under Plan Nacer (August 2010)




9
    The World Health Organization defines health stewardship as the function that involves ‘setting and
enforcing the rules of the game and providing strategic direction for all the different actors involved’
(WHO, 2001).

                                                                21
                                                  Enrolled         Eligible
                      Province                                                    %
                                                 Population       Population
                      Catamarca                      18,174           26,094      69.6
                      Corrientes                     63,799           67,387      94.7
                      Jujuy                          39,418           47,098      83.7
                      Salta                          60,842           89,545      67.9
                      Santiago del Estero            75,426           84,612      89.1
                      Tucumán                       102,715          118,776      86.5
                      Chaco                          84,039          101,523      82.8
                      Formosa                        41,397           50,623      81.8
                      Misiones                       79,740           85,839      92.9
                      Total                         565,550          671,497      84.2
                Source: Progress Report – Cápitas (PMU, Aug. 2010)


72. Enrollment rates for children are relatively higher than those for pregnant
women, at 86.1 percent and 67.3 percent, respectively.

                      Table 4. Enrollment Rates for Pregnant Women and Children
                                     under Plan Nacer - August 2010
                          Enrolled          Eligible                   Enrolled   Eligible
Province                                                      %                                 %
                          Women             Women                      Children   Children
Catamarca                     1,368             2,326         58.8       16,806        23,768   70.7
Corrientes                    4,922             7,095         69.4       58,877        60,292   97.7
Jujuy                         2,650             5,442         48.7       36,768        41,656   88.3
Salta                         5,696            10,450         54.5       55,146        79,095   69.7
Santiago del Estero           5,449             9,034         60.3       69,977        75,578   92.6
Tucumán                       7,882            10,014         78.7       94,833       108,762   87.2
Chaco                         7,335             9,219         79.6       76,704        92,304   83.1
Formosa                       3,444             5,802         59.4       37,953        44,821   84.7
Misiones                      6,853             8,396         81.6       72,887        77,443   94.1
Total                        45,599            67,778         67.3      519,951       603,719   86.1
Source: Progress Report – Cápitas (PMU, Aug. 2010)

73. Enrollment figures, however, differ substantially from the number of active
beneficiaries, as the number of beneficiaries receiving at least one heath care service per
year is significantly smaller. For example, 46.8 percent of all the children enrolled in the
program by April 2010 did not have a routine check-up exam during the previous year.
Clearly, the number of active beneficiaries as opposed to enrolled beneficiaries is a more
robust measure of the program’s actual coverage.



             Table 5. Active versus Enrolled Beneficiaries under Plan Nacer April 2010




                                                       22
                                                                         E n r o lle d
                   P r o v in c e                   E n r o lle d     C h ild r e n w it h      %
                                                    C h ild r e n      C h e c k -u p s
                   C a ta m a r c a                      1 5 ,7 7 4                  9 ,7 0 6   6 1 .5
                   C o r r ie n te s                     5 5 ,8 7 9                3 4 ,3 4 5   6 1 .5
                   J u ju y                              3 4 ,4 3 2                1 9 ,7 0 5   5 7 .2
                   S a lta                               5 2 ,1 5 5                2 2 ,9 0 2   4 3 .9
                   S a n tia g o d e l E s te r o        6 5 ,5 9 9                3 0 ,2 7 3   4 6 .1
                   Tucum án                              9 6 ,1 6 0                2 6 ,7 8 0   2 7 .8
                   C haco                                7 4 ,9 3 9                3 2 ,2 5 3   4 3 .0
                   F o rm o s a                          3 7 ,9 8 0                2 4 ,5 3 6   6 4 .6
                   M is io n e s                         7 1 ,9 8 3                3 5 ,7 0 7   4 9 .6
                   T o ta l                            5 0 4 ,9 0 1              2 3 6 ,2 0 7   4 6 .8
                  Source: Progress Report – Cápitas (PMU, Aug. 2010)

Other Health and Information Systems Impacts10

74.     Achievement of tracer targets Five tracer targets focus on the delivery of critical
health services under the program. Their positive evolution during the life of the project
indicates that the provision of these health care services expanded among Plan Nacer
beneficiaries. However, it is important to note that the tracer targets reflect not only
expanded heath care provision but also improvements in registration. Moreover, there is
room for further improvements, particularly in terms of the timely inclusion of pregnant
women and well-child controls. These tracer targets include:

75.     Tracer I – Timely inclusion of eligible pregnant women in prenatal care
services. Tracer I recorded the number of deliveries from eligible pregnant women with
at least one prenatal care service before the 20th week relative to the number of eligible
pregnant women. The evolution of this tracer over the life of the project shows a steady
increase, from 4 percent of the agreed target in 2005 to 45.4 percent in April 2010—
ranging from 11.5 percent in Catamarca to 74.6 percent in Misiones.

76.     Tracer IV – Quality of pre-natal and delivery care. Tracer IV recorded the
number of eligible pregnant women that were tested for syphilis and that received the
antitetanic vaccine previous to delivery relative to the total number of deliveries from
eligible pregnant women. The evolution of this tracer over the life of the project shows a
steady increase, from 3.6 percent of the agreed target in August 2005 to 70.6 percent in
April 2010—ranging from 58.8 percent in Catamarca to 94.6 percent in Corrientes.

77.    Tracer VI – Immunization Coverage. Tracer VI recorded the number of eligible
children aged less than 18 months that received the measles vaccine relative to the
number of eligible children of 18 months or less. The evolution of this tracer shows a
steady increase over the life of the project, from 5.7 percent of the agreed target in


10
    A tracer target is considered to be met once it reaches 100 percent achievement. In addition, it is
important to highlight that tracer achievement reflects two different effects that cannot be separated. On the
one hand there is an effect based on health outcome improvements, while on the other hand there is an
effect that arises from the improvements in health information systems and registration processes.


                                                               23
August 2005 to 58.9 percent in April 2010—ranging from 35.6 percent in Santiago del
Estero to 91.4 percent in Corrientes.

78.     Tracer VIII – Well-child care (1 year old or younger) Tracer VIII recorded the
number of eligible children 1 year old or less, with all well child consultations up to date
(including percentile of weigh and height, and cephalic perimeter) relative to the total
eligible children 1 year old or less. The evolution of this tracer over the life of the project
shows an increase, from 9.5 percent of the agreed target in April 2007 to 31.5 percent in
April 2010—ranging from 7.5 percent in Formosa to 65.7 percent in Tucumán.

79.     Tracer IX– Well-child care (1 to 6 year old) Tracer IX recorded the number of
eligible children 1 to 6 years of age, with all well-child consultations up to date
(including percentile of weigh and height, and cephalic perimeter) relative to the total of
eligible children 1 to 6 years of age. The evolution of this tracer over the life of the
project has improved considerably, from 3.8 percent of the agreed target in April 2006 to
48.5 percent in April 2010—ranging from 2.4 percent in Catamarca to 81.5 percent in
Tucumán.
                             Figure 4 and Table 6. Achievement of Tracer Targets
                          Average, Top and Worst Performance - January to April, 2010




          Tracer              I     II     III    IV         V     VI    VII    VIII   IX    X
Lowest Performer              12%   66%    62%    59%        60%   36%   60%      8%    2%   74%
All Participating Provinces   45%   89%    81%    71%        94%   59%   83%    32%    49%   92%
Top Performer                 75%   112%   109%   95%    126%      91%   112%   66%    82%   104%


Source: Progress Report (PMU, August 2010)




Overall tracer achievement

                                                        24
80.     It is important to note that, despite the sustained improvements in the
achievement of tracer targets throughout the life of the project, the level of coverage of
some of them is still rather modest. This is particularly so for three of the most critical
tracers: I) early detection of pregnat women; VIII) well-child care (one year or younger);
and IX) well-child care (2 to 6 years old). As of April 2010, the average actual vis-à-vis
target coverage was 45 percent for Tracer I, 32 percent for Tracer VIII, and 49 percent for
Tracer IX.

81.     Moreover, the level of achivement was substantially below the provincial
average for some provinces. As mentioned above, Catamarca exhibited the lowest
performance in relation to Tracers I and IX, with a level of achievement of 11.5 and 2.4
percent, respectively. Formosa had the lowest performance in relation to Tracer VIII,
with a level of achievement of 7.5 percent.


82.    Impact studies
The impact studies that were conducted using the administrative data from Misiones and
Tucumán indicate that the project had a significant impact in expanding access to health
care among beneficiaries relative to the control group (Gertler et al., 2010).

83.    Prenatal care
 ƒ Results from Tucumán indicate that pregnant women that are beneficiaries of the
    Plan Nacer have a higher probability of receiving at least one prenatal care service
    between the 14th and 13th weeks into their pregnancy that non-participant pregnant
    women—i.e., 4.6 percent more likely, which is roughly eighteen percent more than
    the probability of pregnant women in the control group.11
 ƒ Results from Misiones also indicate that Plan Nacer beneficiaries have more access
    to prenatal care than their counterparts. Specifically, pregnant women covered under
    the Plan Nacer program have more prenatal checkups than their counterparts in the
    control group—almost 1.75 more controls, which is equivalent to roughly 75 percent
    more than the number of checkups received by pregnant women in the control
    group.12
 ƒ Results from Misiones indicate that pregnant women under the Plan Nacer are
    significantly more likely to have an ultrasound than non-participant pregnant
    women—i.e., 38.5 percent more likely, which is roughly 70 percent higher than the
    probability of pregnant women in the control group.13
 ƒ Results from Tucumán indicate that pregnant women under the Plan Nacer are
    significantly more likely to get the tetanus vaccine than non-participant pregnant
    women—i.e., 9 percent more likely, which roughly 11 percent higher than the
    probability of pregnant women in the control group.14

11
     P < 0.1.
12
     P < 0.01.
13
     P < 0.01.
14
     P < 0.1.

                                            25
 84.      Well-child visits
 ƒ        Results from Misiones indicate that children between 70 and 120 days who are
       enrolled in the Plan Nacer are significantly more likely to have routine check-ups
       than their peers in the control group—i.e., with a probability up to 58 percent higher
       than that for those in the control group.15

 85. With the exception of Component 3 - Communications and Community
 Outreach, the remaining project components performed satisfactorily throughout the life
 of the project. Although the Communication Component was off to a strong start, its
 performance subsequently deteriorated and was below expectations for most of the
 lifespan of the project. The modest performance of this component- reflected in the
 results of beneficiary surveys- can be tracked to the complex process of empowering
 beneficiaries in terms of their health rights and creating awareness on critical health
 issues. The specific outcomes of the project’s components are described in Annex 2.

3.3 Efficiency

 86. Economic Efficiency An economic analysis was conducted for the project, taking
 into consideration the health impacts that resulted from the project in the province of
 Tucumán and extrapolating them to the remaining participating provinces. This
 economic analysis only takes into consideration reductions in the probability of dying at
 birth so as to estimate the monetary benefits associated with the program in Tucumán. In
 terms of costs, all project costs—including both capitation payments and administrative
 costs—are included in the analysis. Given that there are other health impacts from the
 project that are not taken into consideration, such as reduced morbidity and mortality
 rates associated with higher weight at birth, the results should be considered as a lower
 bound, as actual economic benefits can expected to be much higher. Aggregate results
 for all participating provinces indicate a benefits/cost ratio of roughly 2 and an Internal
 Economic Rate of Return (IERR) of 31.6 percent (see Annex 3).

 87. Financial Rate of Return The project’s financial rate of return was not estimated
 at appraisal. However, there are two observations regarding the project’s impact on the
 provincial financial flows:
ƒ                To accelerate transfers to health care providers during the early stages of
    project implementation, provinces tended to overvalue those services that were easier
    to bill by health care providers, such as deliveries. Once providers became more
    familiar with the project’s mechanisms for service provision and billing, it soon
    became apparent that the initial unitary prices did not adequately reflect actual rates
    of service provision and had to be renegotiated with providers to avoid straining
    provincial finances. To avoid this problem, the national PMU now approves the
    unitary prices set by each province, based on an analysis of the rates of services and
    enrolled population.


15
     P< 0.01.

                                              26
88.     As mentioned earlier, as of 2009 provinces are responsible for co-financing
30 percent of the capitation payments. Provincial co-financing has not always been
forthcoming and, in some cases, it has resulted in the national PMU putting a stop on
transfers from the program, as stipulated under the OM. The national PMU works closely
with these provinces to address this challenge.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

89.     This project is considered as one of the most important projects in
Argentina’s portfolio in the Human Development (HD) sector in the past decade.
The project’s objectives were highly relevant, not only for the health sector but for the
country as whole. They addressed the deterioration of social indicators in the aftermath of
the crisis by providing basic health care services for the most vulnerable population
groups in the poorest provinces. In this way, the project helped to reverse the
deterioration in IMRs and reduce the gap between NOA and NEA provinces and the rest
of the country. It also succeeded in capitalizing on the window of opportunity that opened
as a result of the crisis to introduce drastic reforms in the country’s health care provision
and financing. Specifically, it fundamentally changed the relationship between the federal
and provincial health system, improving the country’s health policy dialogue, enhancing
policy integration, and reducing the extreme policy fragmentation that had characterized
Argentina's health sector in the previous 30 years. By introducing an innovative system
of incentives, the project also shifted financing away from the traditional budgetary
model to one based on performance, thus enhancing transparency and accountability of
health care financing at both the national and provincial levels. The project has increased
health care protection and health status of uninsured women and children, usually the
poorest among the poor, in support of the national poverty alleviation strategy.

90.     The eligible provinces (9 provinces of NOA and NEA) of the maternal-child
health insurance program supported under the Plan Nacer (phase 1) is fully
underway now through the APL-2 loan operation starting August 1, 2010 which
comprises all provinces and the autonomous city of Buenos Aires. More than half a
million mothers and children are enrolled in the nine participating provinces, representing
84 percent of the total eligible population; over 16,000 of them belong to indigenous
groups. More than 2,100 health care providers have signed service contracts with their
respective provinces to participate in the Program, while an additional 700 providers are
doing it through administrative agreements signed with third parties; 87 percent of them
are provided with information on the achievement of tracer targets.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

91. Poverty impacts: The project's design and implementation strategy included clear
targeting criteria, both in terms of participating provinces and eligible population.



                                             27
92. Geographic focus: The project targeted poverty directly by focusing on the country’s
poorest provinces. According to the 2001 census, almost a quarter of the households in
the nine NOA and NEA provinces had unsatisfied basic needs (UBNs), compared to 14.3
percent for the country as a whole. Likewise, NOA and NEA provinces had a
substantially higher incidence of poverty and extreme poverty than the country as a
whole—i.e., 56 percent and 23.6 percent of the population were in poverty and extreme
poverty in 2004, respectively, compared to 40.2 percent and 15 percent for the country as
a whole. These provinces also exhibited the highest infant mortality rates, with an
average of 19.6 infant deaths (one year of age or younger) per 1000 live births compared
to 14.4 for the country as a whole in 2004.

93.      Beneficiary population: The project targeted poverty indirectly by focusing on
the uninsured, which tend to be unemployed or informally employed, thus, more likely to
be poor. The project did not track socio-economic characteristics of the beneficiaries, and
for this reason it is not possible to determine exactly its poverty impact.

94.     Gender aspects: The project had a particularly strong impact on women given its
special focus on pregnant women and their children. Eligible women received pre-natal
care as well as reproductive and sexual health counseling. Results from the impact studies
showed that women enrolled in the Plan Nacer are more likely to receive adequate pre-
natal care services than uninsured women out of the program. It is estimated that a total
of 376,562 pregnant women had benefited from the program.

95. Social development: The project has contributed to the country’s social development
in critical ways:

ƒ Emergency response: The project helped reverse the deterioration in health indicators
  observed in 2002 and 2003 as a result of the crisis. It correctly focused its efforts on
  those provinces that exhibited the highest infant mortality rates.
ƒ Enhanced long-term equality: The reductions in morbidity and mortality achieved
  under the project are crucial to enhancing equity over the medium and long terms, as
  they address the root causes of both ex-ante and ex-post inequality (i.e., inequality of
  opportunity and income, respectively).
ƒ Indigenous populations (IP): Over 16,000 beneficiaries of the Plan Nacer reportedly
  belong to an indigenous group—i.e., equivalent to 1.2 percent of the overall
  enrollment. In some provinces this percentage is considerably higher—e.g., almost 10
  percent of all beneficiaries in Formosa, equivalent to 11 percent of the province’s
  indigenous population.16 Each province designed its own strategy for addressing the
  needs of its indigenous population, which was included under the agreements signed
  with the MSN. Although the level of engagement varied across individual provinces, it
  received new impetus in 2009, when participating provinces received additional
  technical support to prepare the IP Plans from the Anahi program—i.e., National
  Program for the Humanitarian Support of Indigenous Populations—which is also

16
    Formosa has identified 36,950 inhabitants that belong to an indigenous group (Formosa - Indigenous
Population Strategic Plan, April 3, 2010). Out of 41,397 beneficiaries under the Formosa’s Plan Nacer,
4,129 report belonging to an indigenous group (Progress Report – Cápitas, PMU, August 2010).

                                                 28
   under the orbit of the MSN. Although tracer X was aimed at capturing efforts to
   include indigenous groups under the program and to expand health care services in a
   manner that suited their needs, making it operational was a challenge. In the end, the
   tracer X was achieved but it was not a good measure of the capacity of the project to
   improve health access of the indigenous population. The tracer reported the
   distribution of health care literature, such as information brochures, translated into
   indigenous languages.

(b) Institutional Change and Strengthening
As described above, the project had a substantial positive impact on Argentina’s health
sector institutional capacity, strengthening the stewardship capacity of the national and
provincial levels, as well as the technical capacity of health care providers. Additional
impacts in terms of institutional strengthening include:
96.     Homogenization of key health service delivery An important contribution of the
Plan Nacer was to strengthen primary health care in participating provinces, with an
emphasis on maternal and child care. The specific services and protocols that were
defined by the MSN’s Maternity and Infancy Directorate have now been adopted by not
only the nine NOA and NEA provinces, but throughout the country. The national PMU
has developed a set of pocket guides to help health care personnel identify the services
that are to be rendered at the different stages of pregnancy and child development, the
specific protocols, triggers for lab tests and other exams, and other alerts. Over 25,000 of
these user-friendly guides have already been distributed and serve as reference to health
care providers. The adoption of the Plan Nacer protocols has resulted in enhanced service
delivery in many provinces—for example, all provinces have now incorporated cephalic
perimeter measurements and growth charts to estimate weight and height percentiles as
part of the well-child routine exams.

97.     Improvement of medical records. Most of the hospitals and many clinics that
operated as health care providers under the Plan Nacer already had medical record
systems in place, and these were adequate to generate basic data on beneficiary
enrollment and services rendered. For those that did not, the project required the
establishment of a record management system that met basic criteria as part of their
certification process. In all cases, the project has triggered the improvement of medical
records, as their completeness is a condition for payment of the services rendered by
providers, a condition that is verified by the concurrent audits.

98.     Improvement of health information systems. Provincial PMUs consolidate the
administrative data from all health care providers participating in the Plan Nacer. Such
data contains a wealth of information that can be used for health care management.
Specifically, it provides, for each beneficiary, all of the information required for the
tracer targets, such as APGAR score and weight at birth, as well as vaccination records.
Some provinces also require additional data to be reported, such as the weight, height and
encephalic perimeter recorded at a child’s routine check-up. Moreover, this data has the
potential to be geo-referenced, as the address of the beneficiary—or at least that of the
health care provider—can be identified. While a few provinces are fully capitalizing on

                                            29
this information to improve health care management, there is great potential for the
development of a nation-wide beneficiary database with health information at the
individual level. As the Plan Nacer continues its institutionalization process, it is vital to
develop a sound institutional framework for these databases, minimizing the risk of
illegitimate uses of this potentially sensitive information.

99.     Unified Health Care Coverage Register (PUCO). As required under the project,
provincial governments now share the beneficiary database of the provincial health
insurance providers (i.e., Obras Sociales) on a monthly basis. In the case of the Plan
Nacer project, this information is critical to ensure that project beneficiaries do indeed
lack health insurance coverage. However, having this information now available has far
reaching implications for the efficient management of the health sector at the national and
provincial levels. It has permitted, after many years of failed attempts, a consolidated
beneficiary database of all public health insurance providers for the country as a whole.
The Health Superintendency, which is responsible for its administration, distributes it on
a monthly basis to the provinces and other public institutions, to help them identify the
health coverage of individuals and, thus, facilitate cost recovery by the public health
system. It also allows the Health Superintendency to perform detailed studies on financial
equilibrium, individual contributions and service utilization. Likewise, it facilitates the
automatic redistribution of funds from the Solidarity Redistribution Fund (FSR) aimed at
decreasing the large inequalities that exist between Obras Sociales and the introduction
of individual risk-adjustment mechanisms.

100. Other externalities The implementation of the Plan Nacer had multiple positive
externalities, including: i) ensuring the regular functioning of formal committees that
examine the causes of infant and maternal deaths in the participating provinces (i.e.,
Comités de Muerte); ii) the certification of maternities that meet minimum safety criteria
(i.e., Maternidades Seguras); and iii) positive synergies with other social programs being
implemented at the national and provincial levels, such as the recently created Universal
Child Allowance Program (i.e., Asignación Universal por Hijo).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
There were no unintended project outcomes or impacts identified by this ICR.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
101. Findings from five rounds of surveys conducted among beneficiaries of the
Plan Nacer in all provinces indicate that, on the whole, there is a positive perception of
the program among the target population. However, results also indicate weaknesses in
the beneficiaries’ understanding of the services provided under the program, as well as
other communication aspects in general (see Annex 5 for a detailed description of the
findings).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate


                                             30
102. Overall, the risk that the progress made under the Plan Nacer project might
not be sustained is considered to be Moderate. In this regard, it is important to distinguish
between sustainability in the short and medium terms vis-à-vis sustainability in the long
term.

103. In the short and medium term, the sustainability of the project’s achievement is
considered to be highly likely. The APL-II will continue to provide support for the
implementation of the Plan Nacer in the twenty-four provincial jurisdictions until
December 2011. Moreover, the PHIP, which is currently under preparation, is expected to
support an expanded package of basic services for a wider target population until 2015.
Moreover, health authorities at the national and provincial levels have a strong ownership
of the overall strategy and results-incentive framework underlying the Plan Nacer. In
this regard, the decision of national health authorities to continue to finance 70 percent of
the capitation payments as opposed to reducing its share of financing down to 40 percent
as originally anticipated shows the high priority given to the program. At the provincial
level, the project has built wide support among health authorities as well as health care
providers and practitioners...


104. While the cultural battle for establishing a results-oriented framework seems
to have been won, there is still great uncertainty in terms of how the overall framework
needed to support the program would be ensured in the absence of an external source of
financing. At the national level, there is still the need to define an encompassing legal
and institutional framework for a nationally-supported insurance program à la Plan
Nacer as well as a source of financing. At the provincial level, the Plan Nacer still co-
exists with the traditional model of health care provision and financing, based on
budgetary allocations that are largely unrelated to actual performance. The challenge of
adopting a results-oriented framework to allocate the bulk of provincial funds is still
pending.

105. It is also important to note that the Plan Nacer has benefited from the strong
support of the present and two past administrations. Since the program covers
population from all national provinces led by different political parties, and includes
more than 6,500 health facilities, it brings greater certainty to Argentina’s political
landscape to ensure the sustainability of the program in the future.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Highly Satisfactory
106. As underscored in Section 2.1, the project was well prepared. It successfully
identified the need to address the country’s emergency situation in the health sector in the
aftermath of the crisis while, at the same time, introducing drastic reforms to the
country’s health care system. Its design was highly innovative and it creatively integrated

                                             31
sound knowledge about the country, the health sector, and the importance of results-
oriented incentives to encourage all players to effectively deliver key basic health care
services to the target population.

107. The Bank’s preparation team worked in close partnership with the
Borrower, contributing its expertise in the health sector gained in previous projects in
Argentina and elsewhere in the region. It also brought state-of-the-art knowledge to
project preparation. As noted by several actors within the GOA during the interviews
conducted for this ICR, the technical capacity of the preparation team, which was
composed by a group of top-notch specialists, was one of the crucial factors determining
the sound project design.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory
108. Supervision of the project was in-depth and permanent. Close communication
between the Borrower and the Bank, including regular supervision missions (up to four in
2009, and more than the standard two per year throughout the life of the project) with
field trips to provinces, helped keep track of the progress being made and the challenges
faced at various times. The project also benefited from the continuous oversight of the
Bank’s senior specialist and operations team members in the country office. An in-depth
MTR was conducted on schedule.


109. The Bank supervision team played a highly proactive role throughout the life
of the project, being intimately involved in key aspects of its implementation. It
effectively used the implementation ratings to signal to the Borrower those areas that
needed improvement. Moreover, the team actively supervised negotiations and
agreements regarding tracer targets with individual provinces, and pushed the MSN to
increase significantly the goals in 2006. It also coordinated its efforts closely with those
of the Essential Public Health (FESP) team.


110. The supervision team exhibited responsible and professional handling of the
procurement questions raised by a new MSN administration in 2008. The team diligently
followed through on all possibilities of procurement shortcomings and, in light of the
post-review findings, it downgraded the procurement aspects of the project. It
subsequently exhibited great diligence in preparing and supervising the implementation
of a procurement action plan. The team’s effective management of client relations was
reflected in the decision of the MSN authorities to expand the program despite its initial
misgivings when they took office in 2008.

111. Sector managers followed the project’s implementation very closely—even
before the procurement alert—as reflected by their detailed comments in ISRs and PSRs.
The project was under enhanced supervision from the onset; thus, it received additional

                                            32
funds from the CMU to ensure that the Government team could count on the necessary
support from the Bank team in the start-up phase crucial phase. Management also
followed closely the procurement investigation, the preparation of the procurement plan,
and its implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

112. Overall, the Bank’s performance is considered satisfactory, as it effectively
supported the MSN in the complex task of establishing the foundations of a MCHIP that
positively transformed the relationship between the national and provincial governments
and between provincial governments and health care providers by introducing an
innovative system of incentives focusing on results.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
113.     Top authorities from the MSN provided their full support to the operation,
being closely involved in its preparation and ‘championing’ it among provincial health
authorities gathered under COFESA. Support for the project was strong throughout the
life of the project, including during 2008, when incoming MSN authorities had some
procurement concerns. The new administration asked the Bank to conduct an in-depth
procurement review to identify any issues. Subsequently, the MSN and the Bank worked
together on the design and development of a governance and anticorruption action plan to
mitigate fiduciary risks.

114. Provincial health authorities also gave their full endorsement to the project.
Despite the program’s innate complexity, it was fully in place by January 2006 and the
Plan Nacer has achieved a strong presence in all participating provinces. Although some
provinces have experienced difficulties in making their co-financing funds available in a
timely manner, provincial authorities have showed good disposition to correct the
situation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
115. National PMU: Its performance is deemed satisfactory and a key factor in
ensuring the project’s overall success. It was intensely involved in the design of the
project. Given the project’s conceptual and logistical complexity, sound project
management was a necessary condition for its successful implementation. Throughout the
project’s lifetime, it exhibited strong ownership of the project, clear strategic vision, a
sense of self-direction, willingness to learn by doing, and the ability to reflect upon
practice. Stability of the PMU’s senior technical specialists brought much needed
continuity in the project’s management. The PMU’s collaborative approach and its ability
to build consensus and to provide technical and institutional support to provincial
governments with very diverse characteristics was one of its main strengths. The PMU
also exhibited a good capacity for M&E and data analysis functions, which contributed
                                            33
toward improving project management throughout the life of the project. The
implementation of the communications component, however, was below expectations,
which has hindered the demand-side dimension of the program, as beneficiaries still lack
an understanding of the services that they are entitled to under the program.


116. MSN’s UFI-S: Its performance is considered moderately unsatisfactory as a
result of the weaknesses in procurement that occurred prior to 2008. As described in
detail in Section 2.4, measures have been taken to address these weaknesses in line with
the recommendation of the Action Procurement Plan prepared in 2008 and a Governance
and Anticorruption Action Plan (GAAP) that was developed during the preparation of the
Emergency Project for Prevention and Management of Influenza (Ln. 7847-AR) in
November 2009, which is currently under implementation.

117. Provincial PMUs: Their performance is considered satisfactory. They have all
succeeded in the challenging task of establishing the Plan Nacer program within their
own provinces, thus transforming the relationship between the PHM and the health care
providers. Some provinces, particularly Tucumán and Misiones, have exhibited
remarkable sophistication in the implementation of the program and their ability to align
it with the province’s own strategic vision.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
118. Overall, the Borrower’s performance was satisfactory, as illustrated by the
substantial progress achieved toward the implementation of the MCHIP in the nine
participating provinces and subsequently throughout the country. While the procurement
weaknesses have unfortunately tainted the project’s implementation, these were
subsequently addressed in line with the Bank’s procurement action plan. The project’s
overall technical implementation experience was remarkable.
                        17
6. Lessons Learned

Project-specific lessons

119. The program has created incentives that encourage each level of the health
care system to take steps to improve coverage, quality, and results. The provincial
governments identify target populations and contract healthcare providers to deliver a



17
  Other general lessons extracted from the implementation experience of the Plan Nacer project
considered useful in the design of future health-sector operations in elsewhere are summarized in Annex
8b.




                                                   34
package of cost-effective interventions. Legally-binding management agreements
between the National Ministry of Health and the provincial governments and between
provincial governments and healthcare providers define their respective
roles/responsibilities and hold parties accountable, since, besides offering financial
incentives, the Plan incorporated innovative auditing approaches. Internal audits verify
that the work was performed, while independent external auditors provide detailed
reports to the National Ministry of Health every two months. The feedback from the
audits and management reports then helps correct any mismanagement, reduces
bottlenecks and improves the way the program functions.

120. There are trade-offs between expediency and institutional arrangements. The
arrangements established separate Project Executing Units (PEUs) at the national and
provincial levels with full responsibility for implementation. While these arrangements
ensured a more expedient process, they also could have insulated Plan Nacer from the
national and provincial health ministries. Although this seems to have been true during
the early stages, the Plan’s Executing Unit at the national level is now fully integrated
with those areas of the MOH where overlap exists, such as the Maternal and Infancy
Directorate. Further, the Plan has become an important tool for these MHO areas to
promote national policies at the provincial level. The degree to which provincial PEUs
have been incorporated within provincial bureaucracies depends on whether provincial
health authorities see the Plan as a national program or an instrument to conduct their
own health policies. Clearly, the program is more likely to be effective and sustainable in
provinces that consider it to be integrated with their own policies.

121. M&E instruments cannot be incidental, particularly with projects that have
output-based disbursements. As disbursements to provincial governments were
directly linked to achieving specific outcomes in relation to the 10 tracers, it was critical
to develop a thorough M&E process to effectively review their effect, right from the start.
Thus, introducing an additional independent audit to verify the reported achievements at
both the provincial and health care provider levels helped the program succeed. Also,
impact studies were developed at the design stage which has helped document valuable
lessons.

122. Reforms introduced by Plan Nacer are demanding, both technically and
institutionally. Implementation has required substantial technical assistance from the
National Project Executing Unit (PEU) to both provincial units and health care providers.
It would have been desirable for provincial PEUs to play a more active role in providing
technical assistance to health care providers within each province. The national PEU was
also crucial in providing information about the Plan throughout the country. Finally, the
project required intense policy dialog and technical supervision by the Bank, throughout
implementation.

123. The program benefited from its flexible design. The possibility of reviewing
and adjusting the enrollment and tracer’s goals annually allowed the project to set the
right incentives to meet the targets considering the real institutional capacities of different
provinces. Moreover, as the flexible approach also envisioned changes in the benefit

                                              35
package, the GOA was able to include new health interventions to cover the needs that
arose from changes in health conditions of the target population. In addition, the
replacement of the all-or-nothing scheme with an incremental scheme for the payment of
tracer achievements allowed the project to better reflect provincial efforts. In comparison
with the previous scheme, this one created incremental incentives not to settle for a low
target and reduce effort once it was reached. The more targets a province met, the more
revenue it received under the MCHIP and the more funds were available for payments to
providers.

124. The Plan offered great potential for economies of scale and cross-
fertilization.
The Plan provides the opportunity to develop management tools at the national level that
can be applied in the provinces to support the program’s implementation, thus
capitalizing on potential economies of scale and easing the institutional burden on
provinces that use them. Likewise, projects such as this, which is being implemented in
many provinces simultaneously, can serve as incubators, fostering innovative solutions
for common problems. The ultimate impact, however, will depend on higher levels of
government recognizing the value of the innovations and their potential for replication,
and ensuring they are disseminated among participants.

125. Ensuring the protection of individual privacy and sensitive information is
still a challenge. One of the Plan’s main contributions has been to develop a beneficiary
database with health and socio-economic information. As the Plan continues, it will be
crucial to develop a sound institutional framework for these databases, minimizing the
risk of illegitimate uses of the information.

    7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies. See annex 7.
(b) Cofinanciers N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders N/A




                                            36
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                           Percentage
Components                              Appraisal       Actual/Latest          of
                                        Estimate        Estimate (*)       Appraisal
                                                           (USD
                                      (USD millions)      millions)            %
1. Implementation of the maternal-
    child health insurance program            112.1             113.9        101.6
2. Strengthening national and
    provincial ministries of health
    stewardship capacity                         6.5              5.9         90.8
3. Communications and community
    outreach                                     4.2              2.9         69.0
4. Program monitoring, evaluation
    and concurrent auditing systems              3.9              6.6        169.2
5. Project management and
    administration                               1.4              1.9        135.7
Total Baseline Cost                            128.1            131.2        102.4
    Physical Contingencies
    Price Contingencies
Total Project Costs
    Unallocated costs                           6.4                 0          0.0
    Front-end fee IBRD                          1.3               0.7         53.8
Total Financing Required                      135.8             131.9         97.1
(*) As of June 30, 2010

(b) Financing
                                                                           Percentage
                                         Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                               of
                       Type of           Estimate         Estimate
Source of Funds                                                            Appraisal
                     Co-financing
                                           (USD             (USD
                                                                               %
                                          millions)        millions)
 Borrower                                       154.1                  0             0.0
   National
   government                                                          0
   Provincial      30% co-financing                                    0
   governments      since Jan. 2009
IBRD                                           135.8             131.9             97.1
Total                                          289.9             131.9             97.1




                                        37
(c ) Disbursement per Expenditure Category

                                                                                            Level of
Categor                                        Allocated        Disbursed   Undisbursed
                Category De scription                                                      Execution
   y
                                                 USD              USD          USD            %
          Consultants’ services, including
    1     auditing services                    16,279,000.00 18,091,600.19 -1,812,600.19     111%
    2     Goods                                18,993,000.00 18,445,627.16    547,372.84     97%
    3     Training                              1,602,000.00   1,275,709.85   326,290.15     80%
    4     Capitation Payments                  97,347,000.00 96,326,267.91 1,020,732.09      99%
    5     Operating Costs                         900,000.00     742,513.76   157,486.24     83%
  FEF     Front End Fee                           679,000.00     679,000.00         0.00     100%
Totals                                       135,800,000.00 135,560,718.88   239,281.12      100%


The loan almost fully disbursed. While categories “Goods” and “Capitation Payments”
were roughly executed as planned, categories “Training” and “Operating Costs” were
sub-executed by 20 and 17 percent, respectively. “Consultants’ services, including
auditing services” was the only category to overrun by 11 percent. The reason for this
situation is explained by the decision to extend the closing date of the project and the
need to hire an auditing firm as a condition of the capitation transfers (funds from the
category 4) from the Nation to the provinces, for six additional months.




                                                           38
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1 - Implementation of the Maternal-Child Health Insurance Program

Description: This component was aimed at ensuring the sustainable functioning of the
MCHIP. It provided financial support for: i) capitation payments for MCHIP services by
the MSN to participating provinces covering a declining share of a package of basic
service costs on per capita basis; ii) equipment (i.e., medical, transportation and
communications) for basic health care facilities that supply the MCHIP package; iii)
technical assistance and training programs to PHMs for developing systems, instruments
and skills necessary for implementing and running the MCHIP; iv) training for health
care providers in delivering the MCHIP package of basic services; and v) equipment and
consultant services for upgrading and expanding information systems for monitoring the
implementation of the MCHIP.
Level of achievement: Satisfactory

Achievement of Intermediate Results for this Component

ƒ   Capitation payment occurring according to approved enrollment lists and tracer
    systems.
Achieved. By January 2006, all provinces had the various components of the project in
place—i.e., Annual Performance Agreement between the MSN and the PHMs were
signed, as well as those between the PHMs and health care providers, and at least one
payment was made to health care providers. Thus, the original target, which called for
capitation payments to be implemented in at least four participating provinces at the end
of APL-1, was amply exceeded.

ƒ   National and provincial PMUs function effectively according to concurrent and
    financial audits.
Achieved. The national PMU and the PMUs of all participating provinces functioned
according to the guidelines included in the Operation Manual—amply exceeding the
original target, which called for at least 50% of all participating provinces.

ƒ  Number of authorized providers receiving the basic medical equipment, vehicles, and
   communication equipment according to the annual performance agreement
   Achieved. 1,248 health providers: Corrientes (859), Juju (433), Chaco (694),
   Santiago (133), Misiones (210), Formosa (431), Salta (638), Catamarca (405),
   Tucuman (112).
ƒ  Numbers of participating province personnel trained
Achieved. The number of participating province personnel trained Phase I. Period 2005-
2010 was 3,195.




                                           39
Component 2 - Strengthening National and Provincial Ministries of Health
Stewardship Capacity
Description: This component was aimed at improving the stewardship function of the
MSN and the PHMs. It provided financial support for: i) reorganizing the MSN’s and
PHM’s mandates, staffing and relationships; ii) improving epidemiological information,
financial and human resource management systems; iii) streamlining the regulatory and
planning capacity of MSN and its dependent public health program units; iv) conducting
studies essential for MSN policy formulation; and v) preparing the APL-II.
Level of achievement: Satisfactory

Achievement of Intermediate Results for this Component
ƒ   Number of provincial PMUs established and functioning, capable of preparing and
    negotiating annual performance agreements between the MSN and the PHM, and
    between the PHM and authorized health care providers.
    Achieved: The original target, which called for at least 75% of all participant
    provinces, was amply exceeded. All provinces put provincial PMUs in place that
    were fully capable of implementing the project as originally envisioned. As
    mentioned above, variations in performance among participating provinces reflected
    the overall ownership of the program by provincial health authorities rather than
    differences in technical or institutional capacity.
ƒ   Policy studies completed and follow-up decided by PY3.
Achieved: The original target, which called for at least 75% of all policy studies to be
completed, was achieved. The list of completed studies are the following: Development
of innovative communication strategies, Impact evaluation analysis, Monitoring of user
satisfaction and quality of services, External concurrent audit, Software development for
tracers monitoring, Methodologies for health services purchasing implementation in the
context of public essential health functions, Development of payment schemes at the
health provider level, and maternal and child health survey for indigenous people.

Component 3 – Communications and Community Outreach
Description: This component was aimed at building broad awareness and ownership of
the MCHIP, and informing the participation of target population and their subgroups in
the program. It provided financial support for: i) dissemination of detailed information
about the program among major stakeholders groups; and ii) community outreach to
increase participation of the targeted population, including the production and
implementation of the campaign elements specially adapted to language and cultural
needs of indigenous population.
Level of achievement: Moderately Satisfactory

Achievement of Intermediate Results for this Component
ƒ  Regular information process among stakeholders on maternal-child health care issues
   in general and entitlements in the MCHIP in particular.
   Partially achieved: The information and dissemination campaign was launched at
   the national level and in all participating provinces, successfully establishing the Plan
   Nacer as a recognizable ‘brand.’ However, performance of the communications
   function subsequently deteriorated and never fully recovered thereafter. The

                                            40
    moderately satisfactory performance in this area is reflected in the lack of
    improvement showed in beneficiary surveys regarding the understanding of the target
    population of the program and its entitlements.
ƒ   At least 20% of eligible population reports in surveys knowledge of MCHIP.
    Achieved: Roughly half of respondents report being familiar with the health care
    services covered under the Plan Nacer.
ƒ   At least 20% of enrolled population reports in surveys being satisfied with the
    MCHIP program.
    Achieved: On average, 84.3 percent of respondents had a positive perception of the
    Plan Nacer, ranging from 56 percent in Salta to 98 percent in Chaco. In the case of all
    but two provinces (i.e., Salta and Formosa), there has been a positive trend in terms of
    beneficiaries’ perception of the program.

Component 4 – Program Monitoring, Evaluation and Concurrent Auditing Systems
Description: This component was aimed at ensuring the availability of regular and
verified program information, audits and project evaluation. It provided financial support
for: i) information technology (IT) to upgrade the monitoring of health provider
performance, aggregation and reporting of information; ii) concurrent auditing; and
Evaluation activities, including the completion of the baseline for impact indicators; and
iii) a Mid-term and End-of-project impact evaluation.
Level of achievement: Satisfactory
Specific Intermediate Results for this Component
ƒ    Project implementation reports available as agreed, including financial reports
     supporting the capitation payments.
     Achieved: The project’s implementation was supported by a robust M&E system,
     and reporting was adequate throughout the life of the project.
ƒ    Satisfactory reports from concurrent and annual financial auditor.
     Achieved: Reports were submitted from concurrent and annual financial audits,
     which reported that the project was implemented in accordance with the loan
     agreement, the OM, and the annual performance agreements subscribed between the
     HNM and the PMHs, as well as the PHMs and health care providers.
ƒ    Project evaluation implemented, including: i) baseline at the end of PY2; ii) Mid-term
     impact evaluation at the end of PY3; and iii) final impact evaluation at the end of last
     year of APL 1.
Achieved: Although there were delays in the construction of the baseline, all the
evaluations were completed as anticipated.

Component 5 – Project Management and Administration
Description: This component provided financing for incremental national contractual
staffing, consulting services, operating costs, office equipment, and in-country travel
required for project management through the national Project Management Unit (PMU)
and provincial PMUs.
Level of achievement: Satisfactory
Achievement of Intermediate Results for this Component
ƒ   Performance indicators (PDOs)


                                             42
   Achieved: As described above, PDOs were achieved and KPIs were exceeded,
   denoting a sound project management and administration
ƒ  Loan disbursements
Achieved: The loan was fully disbursed.




                                    43
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

a. Economic Analysis

An economic analysis was conducted for the project, taking into consideration the health
impacts that resulted from the project in the province of Tucumán. As mentioned earlier,
this province has developed a particularly robust M&E system and, as a result, has a rich
database with health data for the beneficiaries of the Plan Nacer. Utilizing a quasi-
experimental design, these health data were compared to that of a comparable control
group as part of an impact study conducted by Paul Gertler et al. (2010). Results from
this study indicate that the project had several positive impacts in Tucumán in terms of
both, expanding access to health care services among the program beneficiaries and
improving health conditions, such as increasing weight at birth and virtually eliminating
mortality at birth.

This economic analysis conducted by the Technical Area of the national PMU (2010)
builds upon this particular health impact—i.e., a reduced probability of dying at birth—to
estimate the monetary benefits associated to the program in Tucumán. In terms of costs,
all project costs—including both capitation payments and administrative costs—are
included in the analysis. Given that there are other health impacts from the project that
are not taken into consideration, such as reduced morbidity and mortality rates associated
with higher weight at birth, the results should be considered as a lower bound, as actual
economic benefits can expected to be much higher. The results from Tucumán are then
extrapolated to the other participating provinces based on their corresponding
performance with regards to three key tracer targets, which are considered as a proxy to
the overall effectiveness of the program in each program.

Economic benefits arising from lives saved at birth in Tucumán

ƒ     The time period considered for the analysis is 2009-2015. Although it can be
      expected that there were incremental improvements since the program was set in
      place, the analysis has adopted the least favorable assumption, taking into
      consideration only the results for 2009 that were identified in the impact study.
ƒ     Only lives saved among babies that are born without insurance coverage are taken
      into consideration, as this corresponds to the program’s beneficiary population (see
      Table 3.1).
                Table 3.1 Born alive without insurance coverage in NOA and NEA provinces
    Provinces                  2009        2010       2011     2012     2013        2014    2015
    Catamarca                  2,901        2,94      2,979   3,019     3,058      3,097    3,136
    Chaco                    11,633       11,651      11,67   11,69 11,711        11,732   11,753
    Corrientes                 8,933       8,967      9,001   9,035     9,069      9,103    9,136
    Formosa                    7,283       7,333      7,384   7,437     7,492      7,547    7,602
    Jujuy                      6,832       6,878      6,923   6,968     7,013      7,056    7,099
    Misiones                 10,524       10,611     10,697 10,785 10,874         10,962   11,051
    Salta                    13,072       13,207     13,345 13,485 13,625         13,764   13,903
    Santiago del Estero      11,385       11,417     11,451 11,486 11,523         11,559   11,596
    Tucuman                  12,589       12,656     12,721 12,787 12,852         12,915   12,976
    Source: Estimates b ased on data from INDEC and Permanent Household Surveys

                                                  44
    ƒ   The reduction in mortality at birth in Tucumán was 10.4 per 1,000 babies born
        alive without insurance coverage. Thus, it is estimated that 131 lives were saved in
        Tucumán in 2009 as a result of the Plan Nacer (see Table 3.2).

    ƒ   The economic benefit associated with each life saved at birth is estimated using the
        Human Capital approach that takes into consideration the stream of income for that
        person over his or her lifetime. The following assumptions were made to calculate
        the stream of income:
        9 Annual income based on Geographic Gross Product = US$4,138.00
        9 Economically active ages = 18 to 65
        9 Discount rate = 4%


    ƒ   Thus, taking into consideration the number of lives saved, as well as the stream of
        income each survivor will make over his/her lifespan, the economic benefits
        corresponding to the lives saved in 2009 amount to US$6.1 million (see Table 3.2).
        The total discounted economic benefits for the entire period 2009-2010 amount to
        US$38,830,982.

Table 3.2 Lives saved at birth and associated economic benefits in Tucumán as a result of the Plan
Nacer
Provinces                   2009         2010        2011            2012       2013          2014          2015
Lives saved at birth         131          132         132             133        134           134           135
Economic benefits (US$)
  For each life saved      46,822       45,021       43,290        41,625       40,024        38,484        37,004
  For all lives saved   6,130,206    5,925,800    5,727,148     5,535,444    5,349,599     5,169,060     4,993,725
Source: Area Tecnica, National PMU (2010)


Costs in Tucumán

ƒ   Capitation payments include funds from both provincial and national sources.
ƒ   Operation and administrative costs - A cost study for the province of Tucumán
    indicates that the province’s operational costs were roughly equivalent to 2 percent of
    the capitation payments (Rospide et al., 2009).
ƒ   Total costs associated with the implementation of the Plan Nacer in Tucumán
    amounted to US$18,843,843 for the entire lifespan of the project (see Table 3.3).
                Table 3.3 Capitation and administrative costs for Tucumán 2005-2009
Provinces                      2005           2006           2007           2008           2009             Total
C                          1,199,615      3,038,948      3,447,527      4,313,471      4,531,127       16,530,688
A                               4,360        15,408         99,330         95,303         98,755          313,155
Source: Area Tecnica, National PMU (2010)
(*) It includes funds from both national and provincial sources.

Economic efficiency in Tucumán

ƒ   The ratio between discounted benefits and costs for Tucumán indicates that, for each
    dollar spent under the project, a total of US$2.31 resulted in benefits. Thus, the results
    from the economic analysis indicate that the project was economically efficient.


                                                    45
Economic efficiency in the remaining participating provinces

The results from Tucumán are then extrapolated to the other participating provinces
based on their corresponding performance with regards to three key tracer targets, which
are considered as a proxy to the overall effectiveness of the program in each program.
These tracer targets are: I) timely inclusion of eligible pregnant women in prenatal care
services; III) weight at birth; and IV) quality of pre-natal and delivery care. Specifically,
the reduction in the mortality rate at birth for Tucumán is used to estimate the reduction
in mortality rate in the remaining participating provinces using the median and variance
for the three key tracer targets during the 2005-2009 time period (see Table 3.4).
                             Table 3.4 Estimated reductions in mortality rate
                                  at birth in all participating provinces
                                                              R e d u c t io n
                              P r o v in c ia s                     in
                                                               m o r t a lit y
                              Tuc um á n                             1 0 .4
                              J u ju y                               9 .7 2
                              M is io n e s                            9 .5
                              C o r r i e n te s                     9 .1 5
                              C h a co                               8 .7 9
                              F o rm o s a                           8 .4 2
                              S a n ti a g o d e l E s te r o        7 .8 2
                              S a l ta                                 7 .4
                              C a ta m a r c a                       5 .9 5
                                   Source: Área Técnica, National PMU (2010)

Table 3.5 shows the number of lives that are expected to be saved at birth in each
participating province between 2009 and 2015 as a result of the Plan Nacer. Table 3.6
shows the discounted gross benefits resulting from the stream of income from each of the
survivors during their lifetimes.

        Table 3.5 Lives saved at birth in participating provinces as a result of the Plan Nacer
Provinc es                  2 00 9      20 10       20 11        2 01 2          20 13   2 01 4   201 5
C ata m arca                   17          17          18           18              18      18      19
C ha co                       10 2       1 02        1 03          10 3           1 03     10 3    10 3
C orrien tes                   82          82          82           83              83      83      84
Form os a                      61          62          62           63              63      64      64
Juju y                         66          67          67           68              68      69      69
Mis ione s                    10 0       1 01        1 02          10 2           1 03     10 4    10 5
Salta                          97          98          99          10 0           1 01     10 2    10 3
San tiag o d el Es tero        89          89          90           90              90      90      91
Tucu m an                     13 1       1 32        1 32          13 3           1 34     13 4    13 5
 Source: Área Técnica, National PMU (2010)




                                                    46
           Table 3.6 Discounted gross benefits from lives saved under the Plan Nacer (US$)
Provinces                   2009         2010       2011         2012        2013        2014         2015
Catamarca                757,751      738402      719,421      701,039     682,784     664,896      647,374
Chaco                  4,072,491 3,921,916      3,777,222    3,638,169   3,504,524   3,375,777    3,251,749
Corrientes             3,509,016 3,386,896      3,268,979    3,155,122   3,045,188   2,939,042    2,836,247
Formosa                2,254,512 2,182,683      2,113,330    2,046,633   1,982,470   1,920,215    1,859,817
Jujuy                  2,825,562 2,735,179      2,647,187    2,561,917   2,479,291   2,398,551    2,320,353
Misiones               4,175,877 4,048,460      3,924,300    3,804,407   3,688,271   3,575,115    3,465,520
Salta                  3,998,095 3,884,024      3,773,662    3,666,587   3,562,167   3,460,103    3,360,621
Santiago del Estero 2,811,654 2,711,112         2,614,602    2,521,724   2,432,546   2,346,294    2,263,273
Tucuman                6,130,206 5,925,800      5,727,148    5,535,444   5,349,599   5,169,060    4,993,725
Source: Área Técnica, National PMU (2010)

Table 3.7 shows the capitation payments for all participating province between 2009 and
2015, including both national and provincial sources. Table 3.8 shows the corresponding
administrative costs for each of the participating provinces.

            Table 3.7 Capitation payments for all participating provinces (US$) 2005-2009
Provinces                 2005          2006        2007         2008        2009         Total
Catamarca               92,649       429,676      121,726      717,756     499,232    1,861,041
Chaco                  446,458 2,420,218 2,383,431           3,112,684   2,743,548   11,106,339
Corrientes             250,719 1,687,864 2,170,792           2,601,197   2,478,407    9,188,979
Formosa                205,487 1,107,093 1,294,769           1,282,649   1,332,363    5,222,360
Jujuy                  281,559       942,696 1,076,177       1,138,461   1,352,428    4,791,321
Misiones               915,247 1,833,380 2,131,864           3,215,010   2,949,197   11,044,698
Salta                  769,181       913,181 1,452,952       2,284,373   1,981,166    7,400,853
Santiago del Estero 328,411 1,813,492 2,180,662              2,716,069   2,805,912    9,844,546
Tucuman              1,199,615 3,038,948 3,447,527           4,313,471   4,531,127   16,530,688
        Source: Área Técnica, National PMU (2010)

            Table 3.8 Administrative costs for all participating provinces (US$) 2005-2009
Provinces                2005        2006            2007     2008        2009         Total
Catamarca                    0       1,828           5,156     11,5      17,395        35,88
Chaco                    1,472      26,204          50,111   66,924      59,476      204,187
Corrientes                 755      23,658          52,123   50,139      47,455       174,13
Formosa                      0      11,892          23,832   29,526      32,973       98,222
Jujuy                    1,035       8,315          16,757   40,101      19,581       85,788
Misiones                 2,555      30,354          57,127   56,728      49,171      195,936
Salta                    1,448       9,268          32,833    52,63      37,583      133,761
Santiago del Estero          0      12,743          55,787   71,466      41,762      181,758
Tucuman                   4,36      15,408           99,33   95,303      98,755      313,155
        Source: Área Técnica, National PMU (2010)

Table 3.9 shows the benefit/cost ratio for each of the participating provinces, which
ranges from 1.21 in Santiago del Estero to 3.68 in Jujuy. Thus, results indicate that, even
taking into consideration only those benefits resulting from reductions in mortality at
birth, the program was economically efficient in all participating provinces.




                                                      47
             Table 3.9 Cost effectiveness of the Plan Nacer in all participating provinces

                                                                C o s t-
                           P r o v in c e s
                                                        E f f e c t iv e n e s s
                           C a ta m a r c a                         1 ,4 2
                           C haco                                   1 ,9 0
                           C o r r i e n te s                       1 ,9 9
                           F o rm o s a                             2 ,2 8
                           J u ju y                                 3 ,6 8
                           M is io n e s                            2 ,0 0
                           S a l ta                                 2 ,3 7
                           S a n ti a g o d e l E s te r o          1 ,2 1
                           Tu cu m a n                              2 ,3 1
                            Source: Área Técnica, National PMU (2010)

Aggregate results for all participating provinces show a benefit/cost ratio of roughly 2
and an Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) of 31.6 percent.

b. Financial Analysis

The financial rate of return was not estimated at appraisal. However, there are two
observations regarding the project’s impact on the provincial financial flows:

ƒ                 To accelerate transfers to health care providers during the early stages of
     project implementation, provinces tended to overvalue those services that were easier
     to bill by health care providers, such as deliveries. Once providers became better
     familiarized with the project’s mechanisms for service provision and billing, it soon
     became apparent that the initial unitary prices did not adequately reflected actual rates
     of service provision and had to be renegotiated with providers to avoid straining
     provincial finances. To avoid this problem, the national PMU now approves the
     unitary prices set by each province, based on an analysis of the rates of services and
     enrolled population.

ƒ    As mentioned earlier, as of 2009 provinces are responsible for co-financing 30
     percent of the capitation payments. Provincial co-financing has not always been
     forthcoming and, in some cases, it has resulted in the national PMU putting a stop on
     transfers from the program, as stipulated under the OM. The national PMU is now
     working closely with these provinces to resolve this situation.

c.      Impact Evaluation Analysis

Background
Impact evaluation (IE) has been a core component of the Plan Nacer program and will
remain central to the M&E activities to the other phases of the operation. Under the
APL1, a series of IEs were launched to measure the impacts of the Plan Nacer pay-for-
performance (P4P) model on the utilization and quality of priority health care services as
well as test alternative design features in order to increase program effectiveness. The

                                                  48
results of these IEs will inform the MSN on the effectiveness of the program design and
implementation and whether or not the programs are achieving the intended results in a
cost-effective manner. Such evidence will enable the GoA to improve the delivery of
priority health services for the uninsured as well as serve as a global public good for
broader health results-based financing community.

IE Strategy
Throughout APL-1 and APL-2, a number of IEs were launched to generate evidence on
the impacts of Plan Nacer as well as to inform key program design and implementation
decisions. The evaluations include: 1) a national IE in each of the 23 provinces (and the
city of Buenos Aires) to measure the program impacts on maternal and child health
outcomes, and 2) a series of provider-level experiments to test alternative design features
of the Plan Nacer model. These evaluations leverage rich administrative and impact
evaluation data, generated through large investments in data collection and quality
control.

The national IE was rolled out in two phases with the NEA and NOA provinces in APL-1
and the remaining provinces in APL-2. In both phases, primary baseline data was
collected at the facility and household level on a number of key outcomes. The sample
of the national IE is representative at the provincial level, allowing for impact estimates
for each province, with roughly 60 health providers and 600 households per province.
The follow-up data collection is planned for Q1 2011 and Q1 2012 for APL-1 and APL-2
respectively. Results for the APL-1 provinces are expected in Q4 2011.

The provider-level experiments are testing a number of targeted program design features
that have been experimentally overlaid on the APL-1 sample in order to determine how to
improve health service delivery in a cost-effective way. The experiments being tested
include: 1) P4P at the provider level, including conditioning of incentives to health
outcomes and the use of incentives for personnel bonuses; and 2) Information campaigns
and supervision at the provider level to improve administrative capacity and the use of
monitoring systems for decision making.

The results from these experiments will illustrate if increased implementation capacity
and supervision or additional provider level autonomy for issuing individual bonuses
increases the effectiveness of the existing P4P model. Results from the provider-level
experiments are expected in Q4 2011.

Preliminary IE Results

To generate preliminary results, an IE analysis was conducted using administrative
records from two provinces (Misiones and Tucumán) that had sufficient coverage of
health records for households before and after the program. The initial results from the
study (Gertler et al., 2010) found that the Plan Nacer model has led to significant




                                            49
improvements in MCH outcomes including health services utilization and health
outcomes. 18

In particular, the study found that:
    • Plan Nacer increased the probability of a first prenatal care visit before week 13
         of pregnancy by 8.5% and before week 20 of pregnancy by 18% over the control.
    • Program beneficiaries increase the number of prenatal checkups by 0.5 visits, or
         17% over the control.
    • Pregnant women also benefit from an improvement in the quality of care,
         measured by increases in the likelihood of vaccination and ultrasounds.
    • The improvement in the quantity and quality of services translated into better
         child birth, including an increase in average birth weight of 69.5 grams (a 2%
         increase over the control), a reduction of 26% in the likelihood of children born
         with very low birth weight (under 1500 grams), and a reduction in neonatal
         mortality.
    • Children under 5 years old are more likely to comply with well-baby checks
         required by the program.

These results suggest strong positive effects of the program on the intended outcomes
during its first years of operation, and suggest a promising model of incentives to be
considered for other priority areas of the Argentine health care system.

Lessons Learned

Flexibility in IE Method: Due to an expedited program roll-out to the APL-2 provinces,
the methodology for measuring the impact of APL-I provinces needed to be adjusted.
The initial method involved a matched difference-in-difference approach with nine
treatment provinces and four control provinces. After collecting the baseline data, this
method was invalidated when the program was scaled up to the entire population. The
current method for evaluating the impact is an instrumental variables approach that will
exploit the differential program take-up of provincial providers over time.

Data Quality Control and Supervision: Several challenges were faced with the data
collection process for the APL-1 baseline data and experimental pilots. These challenges
led to long delays in the receipt of data as well as incomplete and low quality data in
some cases. To ensure that future data collections are better coordinated and supervised,
the research team plans to be more involved in the data collection process and has also
contracted a Data Quality Specialist.


Next Steps

18
  It is important to note that this study is currently being finalized and that all results are
preliminary until the working paper has been published. The figures cited in the Annex
come from an early presentation of the results in September 2010.


                                              50
To build upon the preliminary findings, the next phase of the IE work will focus on
additional operational research questions to determine how the existing Pay for
Performance scheme can be strengthened and applied to new service areas. To answer
these questions, a number of additional experimental pilot studies are being planned to
complement the aforementioned studies.

d. Auditing arrangements, accountability and evaluation

         Neither the provincial ministries of health nor their public health care providers
normally kept the kinds of accurate, detailed records required by Plan Nacer. Thus, since
the government was concerned that both the provinces and health providers might
overstate the number of beneficiaries enrolled and the volume of services delivered, it
required that the transfers to the provinces be certified through regular external and
independent audits whose purpose it is to prevent fraud and hold the recipients of funds
accountable, as well as provide the basis for further evaluation and capacity-building to
manage the insurance program effectively (see Annex 4 for the terms of reference of the
audits). These arrangements include penalties for any irregularities identified by the
external auditors. For example, if an audit reveals that a province has enrolled individuals
who are ineligible, then the amount paid is deducted from the next installment, and the
province is fined a penalty of 20% of capitation transfers. Table 2 summarizes the
different actors’ responsibilities (eg. those of the national and provincial governments,
affiliated providers, external auditors, and eligible beneficiaries).

       In addition to annual financial audits carried out by an independent external firm,
internal and external audits are also conducted by firms contracted by the Government on
an annual basis. While the independent external firm supervises the financial work
performed by the provinces, the independent, external auditor verifies the project results
in terms of numbers enrolled, improvements in health conditions as determined by the
tracers (health indicators) and health care service delivery and quality. The audits also
expected to determine whether and how much of the funds will be transferred to the
health care facilities.

       The independent auditors also review the records to determine if the provinces
have complied with the Plan’s standards; after this, they report their findings on a
bimonthly basis (which includes errors and deviations from Plan’s goals) to the Central
Implementation Unit (UEC), which proposes sanctions and recommends ways to solve
the problems identified. Next, the internal auditors review the external auditors’ findings
and propose the amount of refunds or fines to correct deviations and improve critical
situations.

       This process has helped identify the main issues in each stage of Plan Nacer’s
implementation. In the beginning, the provinces found it difficult to reach the agreed
enrollment targets of beneficiaries, and to enroll the number of health care providers
under contract. Also, a significant number of errors were detected that related to
consolidating and correcting the list of individuals enrolled in the program (called

                                            51
“Padrón” in Spanish) After the Plan had been in operation for nearly two years, the
enrollment problem remained, as did problems related to payments to providers. At
present, enrollment is still an issue, as is achieving the targets (re: quality and quantity of
services), the lag time for provider payments and the information and management
systems—all which need to be improved.

        The checks and balances created by the audits, which verify results, have not only
identified errors in registrations, but have served as incentives to improve the health
centers’ performance. For instance, in the provinces funded in Phase 1, the number of
errors identified each month dropped from 22% in December 2006 to 11% in December
2009. For this reason, fines also decreased from ARS$2,700 to ARS$1,700.

        In 2009, the total amount to be refunded (due to inconsistent or non-certified
billing) and fines for the entire program were nearly ARS$10 million--i.e. 10% of the
transfers to provinces, and 60% of the cost of the annual external audit, which is close to
ARS$17 million. While the audit costs are significant, they ensure that funds are used
according to the guidelines; this, in turn, refunds money to the program. Thus, the
independent audit has been extremely valuable in implementing Plan Nacer, as it has
identified bottlenecks; this information has helped improve the manner in which the
program functions.




                                              52
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
Names                     Title                              Unit
                                                                      Specialty
                                      Lending
Cristian C. Baeza         Sector Director                   HDNHE        TTL
Luis Orlando Perez        Senior Public Health Specialist   LCSHH       Health
Fernando Lavadenz         Senior Health Specialist          LCSHH       Health
Marcelo Becerra           Senior Economist                  LCSHE     Economist
Robert W. Crown           Consultant                        EASPR     Consultant
                                                                       Program
Natalia Moncada           Senior Executive Assistant        LCSHD
                                                                       Assistant
Yewande Aramide Awe       Senior Environmental Engineer      ENV      Safeguards
                                 Supervision/ICR
Rafael Cortez             Senior Economist (Health)         LCSHH       TTL
Jose Pablo Gomez-Meza Senior Economist (Health)             LCSHH       TTL
Vanina Camporeale         Operations Officer                LCSHH     Operations
Luis Orlando Perez        Senior Public Health Specialist   LCSHH      Health
Mariana Margarita Montiel Senior Counsel                    LEGLA       Legal
Marta Elena Molares-
                          Lead Counsel                      LEGES       Legal
Halberg
Keisgner De Jesus Alfaro Senior Procurement Specialist      LCSPT    Procurement
Ana Maria Grofsmacht      Procurement Analyst               LCSPT    Procurement
                                                                      Financial
Alejandro Roger Solanot   Financial Management Specialist LCSFM
                                                                     Management
                          Senior Social Protection
Gaston Mariano Blanco                                       LCSHS     Economist
                          Specialist
Daniela Romero            Extended Term Consultant          LCSHH     Economist
Sebastian Martinez        Economist                         HDNCE       M&E
Isabel Tomadin            Consultant                        LCSHH    Safeguards
Emiliana Vegas            Senior Education Economist        HDNED     Economist
Paul J. Gertler           Consultant                        ETWWP       M&E
                                                                       Program
Natalia Moncada           Senior Executive Assistant        LCSHD
                                                                      Assistant
                                                                       Program
Santiago Scialabba        Program Assistant                 LCC7C
                                                                      Assistant
                                                                        Junior
Sarah Bailey              Junior Professional Associate     LCC7C    Professional
                                                                      Associate

                                         53
Luz Maria Meyer           Junior Professional Associate     LCSFM         Assistant
                           ICR Consultant – Evaluation
Cecilia Zanetta                                             LCSHH ICR preparation
                          specialist
Kees Kostermans           Lead Public Health Specialist     SASHD       Peer reviewer
Daniel Cotlear            Lead Economist                    HDNHE       Peer reviewer



(b) Staff Time and Cost

                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                              USD Thousands
                               No. of staff weeks
                                                    (incl. travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                     n/a                 22.99
  FY02                                     n/a                  0.00
  FY03                                     n/a                  0.00
  FY04                                     n/a                229.76
  FY05                                     n/a                  0.61
  FY06                                     n/a                  0.00
Total:                                                        256.12
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                     n/a                  0.00
  FY02                                     n/a                  0.00
  FY03                                     n/a                101.50
  FY04                                     n/a                107.48
  FY05                                     n/a                101.496
  FY06                                     n/a                107.475
 FY07                                      n/a                147.289
 FY08                                      n/a                136.948
 FY09                                      n/a                130.413
 FY10                                      n/a                114.537
Total:                                                        947.138




                                         54
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results




                                      55
                                  Survey Methodology
               Pregnant and post-partum women
Universe
               Mothers of children younger than 6 years old
               Misiones, Formosa, Corrientes, Chaco, Catamarca, Tucumán, Salta,
Provinces
               Jujuy, Santiago del Estero
Sampling       Stratified sampling by neighborhood, gender, age, and type of
type           beneficiary
Number of      400 surveys per province, including 100 women and 300 children (i.e., a
observations total of 3,600 surveys each round)
Survey
               Personal interviews with both open and closed-ended questions
instrument
Number of
               Five
rounds
                           Beneficiary Survey – Main Results
ƒ On average, 84.3 percent of respondents had a positive perception of the Plan Nacer,
   ranging from 56 percent in Salta to 98 percent in Chaco. In the case of all but two
   provinces (i.e., Salta and Formosa), there has been a positive trend in terms of
   beneficiaries’ perception of the program.



        Table 5.1 Percentage of respondents with a positive perception of the Plan Nacer

                                                   Round
              Province
                               1        2         3        4         5
             Salta          76.1     78.6      70.3     60.7      56.2
             Catamarca      65.9     78.4      90.5     93.8      92.3
             Santiago       49.3     79.8      76.1     90.1      85.3
             Jujuy          73.7     74.3      82.1     90.5      83.8
             Tucumán        75.3     78.9      88.7     87.6      82.5
             Corrientes     89.5     89.0      91.0     93.4      92.8
             Chaco          84.0     73.4      84.1     61.9      98.2
             Formosa        92.3     83.0      78.2     73.4      77.0
             Misiones       83.1     85.2      90.3     82.2      90.8
             Total          76.6     80.1      83.5     81.5      84.3
              Source: Plan Nacer’s Impact Evaluation (Analogías, 2009).

ƒ Few beneficiaries received a printed information on the health care services that are
  guaranteed under the Plan Nacer—i.e., only 15 percent.
ƒ Only half of respondents report being familiar with the health care services covered
  under the Plan Nacer.
ƒ On average, only 40 percent of respondents received domiciliary visits from health
  care agents for recruitment or follow-up.
ƒ Only 60 percent of respondents have had all the control visits included under the
  program.
ƒ 60 percent of users have received medical information and advice on child
  development and proper child care. Of them, only half received information about
  home accidents. This is one of the main causes of death among children.
ƒ These percentages have remained roughly stable throughout the five rounds of
  measurement, indicating a general lack  56of progress in communicational about the
  program. The only aspects in which a positive trend was observed are: i) more
  beneficiaries are being informed of the Plan Nacer when visiting the health care
  center; and ii) more mothers are aware of the number of well-child care control
  visits.
57
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No Stakeholder Workshop was carried out for this project




                                          58
       Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


       Buenos Aires, 21 de Diciembre de 2010

                                   Comentarios a informe de resultados
                                       Proyecto 7225-BM-BIRF

       Habiendo recibido el Implementation Completition Report (ICR) de la Fase I del Plan Nacer
       realizado por el equipo del Banco Mundial, hemos procedido a su análisis con el fin que el mismo
       refleje de manera más adecuada los logros alcanzados durante la implementación en términos de
       los objetivos del proyecto, los desafíos y las lecciones aprendidas.
       En términos generales, se acuerda con el rating otorgado al proyecto en referencia a “Outcomes”
       (Satisfactory); “Bank Performance” (Satisfactory) y “Borrower Performance” (Satisfactory), si
       bien se sugiere revisar el rating otorgado a “Risk to Development Outcome” (Moderate) el cual se
       propone ser cambiado a “Low”.
       A continuación se presentan los comentarios específicos al documento ICR:


Pagina/
            Comentarios
Párrafo
v           Indicator 3: Percentage of tracer (‘trazadoras’) targets achieved by each participating
            province. Donde se lee “All of the nine participating provinces achieved at least 50% of their
            tracer targets”, debería ser reflejado que “Todas las provincias participantes lograron alcanzar al
            menos el umbral mínimo (2%) en la mitad (50%) de las trazadoras. Se destacan Tucumán y
            Misiones que alcanzaron el umbral mínimo para 9 y 8 de las 10 trazadoras, respectivamente.”
            Donde se lee “All participating provinces achieved at least 50% of their tracer targets by April
            2010—ranging from 54% in Catamarca to 90.5 in Tucumán. Four provinces achieved at least 75%
            of their targets, while the overall the level of achievement for all participating provinces was, on
            average, 74%”, se propone “Regarding the coverage rate in tracers, in all participating provinces the
            rate reached at least 50% by April 2010—ranging from 53% in Catamarca to 81% in Tucumán. Four
            provinces achieved a coverage rate above 70%, which was the average coverage rate considering all
            participating provinces.”
Punto 2.1   Assessment of Quality at Entry – QAE, Weakness. “it is now clear that provincial financing,
            even at a 30 percent level, was not always forthcoming and that the expectation of ensuring the
            sustainability of the MCHIP at the provincial level within the five-year life span of the project was
            overly optimistic”
            Se sugiere su revisión para reflejar que las expectativas en términos de la performance provincial no
            fueron sobreestimadas por el diseño del proyecto.
Punto 2.3   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Implementation. “Impact Evaluation: Two impact studies
            were conducted utilizing administrative data from the provinces of Misiones and Tucumán, which

                                                        59
Pagina/
            Comentarios
Párrafo
            are particularly robust relative to those of other provinces. Using a quasi-experimental design,
            access to the health care services provided under the program’s package and health impacts were
            compared for project participants and a comparable control group. Results are reported in detail
            under Section 3.2 – Assessment of Outcomes”
            Se sugiere incorporar información sobre la realización del relevamiento de línea de base y las
            intervenciones exógenas, las cuales permitieron extraer aprendizajes sobre el comportamiento de los
            efectores.
Punto 2.4   Procurement. En este punto consideramos deberían tenerse en cuenta los comentarios del MSN al
            documento resultante de las misiones de PPR.

Punto 3.1   PDO 1, Impact Studies. Dónde se lee “1.7 percent probability of dying at birth”, debería decir
            “1.7 per thousand probability of dying at birth”.
Punto 3.1   PDO 2, Achievement of tracer targets. Donde se lee “All participating provinces achieved at least
            50 percent of their tracer’ targets during the period January-April 2010—ranging from 54 percent
            in Catamarca to 90.5 percent in Tucumán. As shown on Table 2, four of the nine provinces
            achieved, on average, at least 75 percent of their targets. Overall, the level of achievement was 74
            percent”.
            Con el objetivo de reflejar mas adecuadamente la forma en que se computa el alcance y el
            cumplimiento de las trazadoras, se propone: “Regarding the coverage rate in tracers, in all
            participating provinces the rate reached at least 50% by April 2010—ranging from 53% in
            Catamarca to 81% in Tucumán. Four provinces achieved a coverage rate above 70% , which was the
            average coverage rate considering all participating provinces.”
Punto 3.1   PDO 3, Overall tracer achievement.
            Donde se lee “As of April 2010, the average actual vis-à-vis target coverage was 52 percent for
            ‘Tracer’ I, 39 percent for ‘Tracer’ VIII, and 53 percent for ‘Tracer’ IX.”, debería leerse “As of
            April 2010, the average actual vis-à-vis target coverage was 45 percent for ‘Tracer’ I, 32 percent
            for ‘Tracer’ VIII, and 49 percent for ‘Tracer’ IX.”, actualizando los valores según el ultimo Informe
            de Gestión correspondiente.
            Donde se lee “Catamarca exhibited the worst performance in relation to ‘Tracers’ I and II”,
            debería leerse “Catamarca exhibited the lowest performance in relation to ‘Tracers’ I and IX”.
Punto 3.1   Component 3.
            “With the exception of Component 3 - Communications and Community Outreach, the remaining
            project’s components performed satisfactorily throughout the life of the project. Although the
            Communication Component was up to a strong start, its performance subsequently deteriorated and
            was below expectations for most of the lifespan of the project. The weak performance of this
            component is reflected in the results of beneficiary surveys, which show a generalized lack of
            understanding on the part of the beneficiary population of the services that they were entitled to
            under the program, such as number of routine examinations for children.”


                                                      60
Pagina/
          Comentarios
Párrafo
          En relación a la performance del componente, el Plan Nacer ha logrado importantes avances en la
          difusión y relación con la comunidad, bajo el objetivo de empoderar a los participantes en el
          ejercicio del derecho a la salud y promover líneas de cuidado en la población. Si bien subsisten
          desafíos en el área, los logros han sido substantivos y es por ello que sugerimos revisar el párrafo:
          “The weak performance of this component is reflected in the results of beneficiary surveys, which
          show a generalized lack of understanding on the part of the beneficiary population of the services
          that they were entitled to under the program, such as number of routine examinations for
          children.”, por una expresión que refleje más adecuadamente las complejidades inherentes a todo
          proceso de comunicación, concientización y entendimiento de las necesidades de salud de la
          sociedad, a saber: “The modest performance of this component- reflected in the results of
          beneficiary surveys- can be tracked to the complex process of empowering beneficiaries on their
          health rights and creating awareness on critical health issues”
Punto 4   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome. Factors Affecting the Plan Nacer’s
          Achievements.
          Rating: Moderate. Overall, the risk that the progress made under the Plan Nacer project might not be
          sustained is considered to be Moderate. In this regard, it is important to distinguish between
          sustainability in the short and medium terms vis-à-vis sustainability in the long term
          Se propone revisar el rating de riesgo a “Low” considerando que el Plan Nacer promovió una nueva
          relación entre nación y provincias; y entre provincias y efectores, construyendo una red integrada y
          generando un nuevo esquema de incentivos basado en la evidencia. El riesgo se ve reducido al
          considerar la actual implementación del APL2 y la nueva operación de expansión (en pre-appraisal
          stage), la cual viene a consolidar los logros alcanzados durante la fase I del Plan Nacer.




                                                    61
      Informal Translation into English: Comments on the Implementation Completion Report
                                     Project 7225 WB-IBRD

After receiving the Implementation Competition Report (ICR) of the Phase I of Plan
Nacer prepared by the World Bank team, we analyzed it to ensure that it adequately
reflects the achievements during the implementation phase in terms of project objectives,
challenges and lessons learned.

In general, we agree with the “Outcomes” project rating (Satisfactory), “Bank
Performance” (Satisfactory) and “Borrower Performance” (Satisfactory) although we
would suggest revising the rating for “Risk to Development Outcome” from moderate to
low.

Below are specific comments on the document:

Page/                                                  Comments
Paragraph
V             Indicator 3: Percentage of tracer targets achieved by each participating province.
               Where it reads “All of the nine participating provinces achieved at least 50% of their
              tracer targets”, it should reflect that “all the participating provinces managed to reach at
              least the minimum threshold of (2%) in half (50%) of the tracers. Tucuman and Misiones
              stand out as they reached the minimum threshold for 9 and 8 of the 10 tracers,
              respectively.”
              Where it reads “All participating provinces achieved at least 50% of their tracer targets
              by April 2010, ranging from 54% in Catamarca to 90.5 in Tucumán. Four provinces
              achieved at least 75% of their targets, while the overall the level of achievement for all
              participating provinces was, on average, 74%”, we propose the following: “Regarding
              the tracer coverage rate, in all participating provinces the rate reached at least 50% by
              April 2010—ranging from 53% in Catamarca to 81% in Tucumán. Four provinces
              achieved a coverage rate of above 70%, which was the average coverage rate considering
              all participating provinces.”
2.1           Assessment of Quality at Entry – QAE, Weakness. “it is now clear that provincial
              financing, even at a 30 percent level, was not always forthcoming and that the expectation
              of ensuring the sustainability of the MCHIP at the provincial level within the five-year life
              span of the project was overly optimistic”
              A review of this is suggested to reflect the expectations in terms of provincial performance
              were not overestimated in the project design.
2.3           Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Implementation. “Impact Evaluation: Two impact
              studies were conducted utilizing administrative data from the provinces of Misiones and
              Tucumán, which are particularly robust relative to those of other provinces. Using a
              quasi-experimental design, access to the health care services provided under the
              program’s package and health impacts were compared for project participants and a
              comparable control group. Results are reported in detail under Section 3.2 – Assessment


                                               62
      of Outcomes”
      We suggest including information on completing that baseline survey and the exogenous
      interventions which allowed lessons to be learned about the behavior of health care
      providers.


2.4   Procurement.
      On this point we believe that comments from the MSN on the document resulting from the
      PPR missions should be taken into account.
3.1   PDO 1, Impact Studies. Where it reads “1.7 percent probability of dying at birth”, it
      should say “1.7 per thousand probability of dying at birth”.
3.1   PDO 2, Achievement of tracer targets. Where it reads “All participating provinces
      achieved at least 50 percent of their tracer targets during the period January-April 2010—
      ranging from 54 percent in Catamarca to 90.5 percent in Tucumán. As shown on Table 2,
      four of the nine provinces achieved, on average, at least 75 percent of their targets.
      Overall, the level of achievement was 74 percent”.
       In order to more accurately reflect the way scope and performance of the tracers is
      calculated, we propose: “Regarding the coverage rate in tracers, in all participating
      provinces the rate reached at least 50% by April 2010—ranging from 53% in Catamarca to
      81% in Tucumán. Four provinces achieved a coverage rate of above 70% which was the
      average coverage rate considering all participating provinces.”
3.1   PDO 3, Overall tracer achievement.
      Instead of “As of April 2010, the average actual vis-à-vis target coverage was 52 percent
      for Tracer I, 39 percent for Tracer VIII, and 53 percent for Tracer IX.”, it should say “As
      of April 2010, the average actual vis-à-vis target coverage was 45 percent for Tracer I, 32
      percent for Tracer VIII, and 49 percent for Tracer IX.”, updating the values according to
      the latest Progress Report.
       “Catamarca exhibited the worst performance in relation to Tracers I and II”, should be
      replaced with “Catamarca exhibited the lowest performance in relation to Tracers I and
      IX”.
3.1   Component 3.
      “With the exception of Component 3 - Communications and Community Outreach, the
      remaining project’s components performed satisfactorily throughout the life of the project.
      Although the Communication Component was up to a strong start, its performance
      subsequently deteriorated and was below expectations for most of the lifespan of the
      project. The weak performance of this component is reflected in the results of beneficiary
      surveys, which show a generalized lack of understanding on the part of the beneficiary
      population of the services that they were entitled to under the program, such as number of
      routine examinations for children.”
      The Plan Nacer Project has achieved significant progress in outreach and community


                                      63
    relations with the goal of empowering participants to exercise their right to health care and
    promote health care in the population. Although there are challenges remaining, the
    achievements have been substantive and that is why we suggest revising this paragraph as
    follows:
     “The weak performance of this component is reflected in the results of beneficiary
    surveys, which show a generalized lack of understanding on the part of the beneficiary
    population of the services that they were entitled to under the program, such as number of
    routine examinations for children.”, could be replaced with an expression that more
    accurately reflects the process of communication, awareness and understanding of the
    society’s health needs, for example:       “The modest performance of this component-
    reflected in the results of beneficiary surveys- can be tracked to the complex process of
    empowering beneficiaries in terms of their health rights and creating awareness on
    critical health issues”
4   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome. Factors Affecting the Plan Nacer’s
    Achievements.
    Rating: Moderate. Overall, the risk that the progress made under the Plan Nacer project
    might not be sustained is considered to be Moderate. In this regard, it is important to
    distinguish between sustainability in the short and medium terms vis-à-vis sustainability in
    the long term.
    We propose to revise the risk rating to “Low” considering that the Plan Nacer promoted a
    new relationship between the nation and provinces; between provinces and health care
    providers, building an integrated network and generating a new incentive scheme based on
    evidence. The risk is reduced when considering the current implementation of the APL2
    and the new operation expansion (in pre-appraisal stage), which consolidates achievements
    during the Plan Nacer Phase I.




                                     64
Annex 8a. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable.




                                    65
Annex 8b: Lessons of wide, general application

ƒ Context matters. Undoubtedly, the critical economic and social conditions that
prevailed in the aftermath of the 2001-2002 crisis provided a unique window of
opportunity for advancing reforms in health care delivery and financing while adequately
responding to the crisis. Increases in infant mortality rates and malnutrition, particularly
in the Northern provinces, were not only an indicator of the grave social conditions but
also a political stigma. Likewise, the additional financial support provided under the
project was particularly attractive at a time when provincial financial resources were
scarce. Thus, these factors, in combination with strong leadership at the national level and
a sound project design, provided momentum for advancing profound changes in primary
health care delivery and financing at the provincial level while responding to the needs
arising from the crisis. The rapidly improving macroeconomic conditions and the
political stability that prevailed throughout the life of the project also contributed to its
smooth implementation.

ƒ  Borrower’s ownership and leadership are vital for project success.
The design of the Plan Nacer benefited from a strong ownership on the part of the MSN.
In particular, the Minister of Health was closely involved in the design process and his
efforts to ‘champion’ the project at the provincial level were critical to its success.
Support for the project waned under his successor, particularly during 2008, but it was
gradually restored and remained strong throughout the life of the project. Ownership and
support within provincial health ministries varied across provinces. Not surprisingly, the
project had the greatest impact in those provinces in which the overall project strategy
was closely aligned with the vision of provincial health authorities and, thus, the project
was utilized as a tool to carry out the province’s own health policy agenda.

ƒ  APLs can be powerful learning tools.
The choice of an APL as lending instrument permitted to test the project’s design in the
Northern provinces and to incorporate the preliminary lessons learned in these provinces
into practices and norms to guide service delivery, financing regime, and institution
building in the APL-II, which expanded the program to the remaining provinces. In
retrospect, however, the decision to move on with the second APL phase roughly six
months earlier than anticipated (i.e., the APL-II was approved in Nov. 2006 although it
was originally anticipated for June 2007) and to include all remaining provinces in the
second phase as opposed to in two additional phases as originally anticipated may have
lessened the learning potential of the APL lending instrument.

ƒ  A proper combination of lending instruments is crucial to consolidate complex
   reform processes.
The Plan Nacer’s success was in large part due to the parallel and well coordinated
implementation of a health sector adjustment loan—the PMCHSAL. While the APL
operation provided the technical assistance needed to advance the implementation of the
reform efforts being spearheaded by the MOH at the provincial level, the PMCHSAL’s



                                             66
stronger financial incentives (i.e., US$750 million) provided the momentum needed to
overcome resistances at the national and provincial levels.

ƒ  Under a federal system, provincial participation is critical for health service
   delivery.
The project’s design effectively captured the critical role of provincial governments in
providing health care to the poor under Argentina’s federal system. Thus, the project
explicitly identified mechanisms to strengthen the role of provincial governments while
respecting provincial autonomy. Given their strategic importance, the lack of adequate
technical and institutional capacity in some provinces posed a significantly challenge at
early stages of implementation.

ƒ Direct targeting of the poor has shown progress during implementation but
there are challenges ahead. The project's design and implementation strategy included
clear targeting criteria, both in terms of participating provinces and eligible population.
Focusing on Argentina’s Northern provinces maximized the project’s poverty impact, as
these are poorest in the country, with 56 and 23.6 percent of their population living in
poverty and extreme poverty in 2004, respectively, compared to 40.2 and 15 percent for
the country as a whole. Likewise, targeting uninsured women and children ensured
reaching the most vulnerable groups. However, targeting the poorest among the poor is
still a challenge. While there is a right to universal health coverage, the utilization of
basic health services is not fully extensive to the poorest population due to supply and
demand factors in the poorest and most remote areas. Vulnerable groups are under-served
as they are not aware of which health benefits they are entitled to. Therefore, the MCHIP
sought to guarantee access to an explicit package of basic health care. The program
focuses on uninsured households. The members of these households are likely to be poor,
unemployed or working in the informal sector. The MCHIP targets mothers and children
who are the most vulnerable groups.

On the other hand, the program provided supply subsidies with the objective of
improving health service delivery. The MCHIP envisioned a communication strategy to
reach the target population and foster health service demand. However, the latter was
partially achieved because the communication campaigns were absorbed by Government
Communication Unit without the participation of the MSN. Therefore, the program was
not able to adequately reach the indigenous population. Indigenous people targeted by the
program represented only 1.2% of the total enrollment while this group represents around
2-3.5% of the total population. The next lending operation supported by the World Bank
will comprise a set of indicators to track indigenous population enrollment and reductions
in intra-jurisdictions inequity in the access of health care services. In addition, the project
preparation team will consider hiring a communication specialist to supervise the
implementation of the communication strategy.

ƒ ‘Smart’ sequencing maximizes the chances of project success.
The project’s design reflected a well thought-out sequencing for gradual expansion over
various dimensions over the medium term. Geographically, it began with the poorest
provinces, which are those with higher concentration of poverty and weaker health

                                              67
indicators, to later expand to the rest of the country. In terms of health care services, it
began by supporting a basic health care package aimed at reducing ‘soft’ infant mortality,
to later include more complex pathologies aimed at reducing ‘hard’ causes of infant
mortality, such as cardio pathologies. In terms of beneficiary population, the Plan
Nacer’s target population groups were uninsured pregnant women and children, which
will now be expanded to include other groups, such as adolescents, under the PHIP that is
currently under preparation.

ƒ Expanding access to infant and maternal health care is crucial both from
   efficiency and equity perspectives.
The high rate of return of the investments under the Plan Nacer project points to the
economic efficiency of investments in infant and maternal health care. In addition, the
reductions in morbidity and mortality achieved under the project are crucial to enhancing
equity over the medium and long terms, as they address the root causes of both ex-ante
and ex-post inequality (i.e., inequality of opportunity and income, respectively).

ƒ Program recipients might undervalue access to health care vis-à-vis cash
   transfers.
While expanding access to basic services, such as health care, is crucial to combat
poverty and enhance equality in the medium and long terms, the poor often tend to place
more value on cash transfers and other ways of income redistribution. In the case of
Argentina, changing this perception on the part of beneficiaries of the emergency
programs that were put in place to contain the 2001-2002 crisis and shifting the policy
focus toward programs that support a long-term development agenda will be a slow and
difficult process. The Plan Nacer project has been without doubt an important step
toward this transition.

ƒ A sound results-oriented system of incentives is crucial to successful project
   implementation and, more important, behavior modification.
The project’s strong results-oriented system of incentives was critical to its success.
Disbursements to provincial governments were tied to their achievement of enrollment
and a set of output and intermediary outcomes goals (e.g., the proportion of eligible
pregnant women receiving early prenatal care and the proportion of eligible newborns
scoring high in the post-delivery neonatal evaluation). In turn, disbursements to health
care providers were based on service fees for specified outputs (e.g., routine check-ups,
vaccinations, and normal and cesarean delivery procedures) to eligible recipients and
their reporting. The project’s implementation experience indicates that Bank’s financing
should be closely linked to results, both outputs (actual delivery of services), and, if
possible, outcomes (improvement of final or intermediary health indicators). In addition,
given the dynamic nature of payment mechanisms, it is important to allow for flexibility
within the agreed results-oriented framework.




                                            68
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Analogías (2009), Evaluación Plan Nacer, Informe Final, May 2009, Buenos Aires.
Cortez, R. (2009), ‘Argentina: Provincial Maternal and Child Health Insurance- A Results-Based
    Financing Project at Work,’ En Breve, Number 150, December 2009, World Bank,
    Washington, D.C.
Cortez, R and P. Musgrove (2011). Argentina: Results-Based Financing in Health. Draft Report.
    Human Development Department. Latin American and the Caribbean Region, the World
    Bank. January 2011. Washington D.C.
Dirección de Estadísticas e Información de Salud (2009), Estadísticas Vitales - Información
    Básica, 2008, Serie 5 - Número 52, Diciembre 2009, Ministerio de Salud, Presidencia de la
    Nación, Buenos Aires.
Gertler, P., Martínez, S. and Celhay, P. (2010), Evaluación de Impacto del Programa Plan Nacer
    - Resultados Parciales de las Provincias de Misiones y Tucumán, PowerPoint Presentation,
    September 28, 2010, Buenos Aires.
Rospide J. (2009), Costeo ABC aplicado al servicio de facturación y pago del Plan Nacer en
    Tucumán,’ Primeras Jornadas de Economía de la Salud de América Latina y el Caribe,
    Buenos Aires.
Unidad Ejecutora de Formosa – Plan Nacer (2010), Indigenous Population Strategic Plan, April
    3, 2010, Formosa.
Unidad Ejecutora Central – Plan Nacer (2010), Análisis de Costo Efectividad de los incentivos
    generados por Plan Nacer, Área Técnica, Documento de trabajo, Noviembre 2010, Secretaría
    de Promoción y Programas Sanitarios, Ministerio de Salud, Presidencia de la Nación,
    Argentina, Buenos Aires.
Unidad Ejecutora Central – Plan Nacer (2010), Evaluación de la Fase I del Plan Nacer:
    Evolución, Desempeño y Aprendizajes de un Programa de Inversión en Salud basada en
    Resultados Provincias de NEA y NOA de Argentina, Años 2004-2010, Estudios y Estadísticas
    - Área Técnica, Versión Preliminar, Septiembre 2010, Secretaría de Promoción y Programas
    Sanitarios, Ministerio de Salud, Presidencia de la Nación, Argentina, Buenos Aires.
Unidad Ejecutora Central – Plan Nacer (2010), Informe de Gestión – Junio 2010, Área Técnica,
    August 20, 2010, Secretaría de Promoción y Programas Sanitarios, Ministerio de salud,
    Presidencia de la Nación, Argentina, Buenos Aires.
Unidad Ejecutora Central – Plan Nacer (2010), Informe de Gestión – Junio 2010, Área Cápitas,
    Septiembre 21, 2010, Secretaría de Promoción y Programas Sanitarios, Ministerio de Salud,
    Presidencia de la Nación, Argentina, Buenos Aires.
Universidad de Tres de Febrero (2009), Responsabilidad e incentivos en la prestación de
    servicios para el desarrollo humano en argentina, Estudio de caso del Plan Nacer, March
    2009, Buenos Aires.
World Bank (2007), Argentina- Provincial Maternal- Child Health Sector Adjustment Loan,
    Implementation Completion Report, Report No: ICR632, September 25, 2007, Washington,
    DC.
World Bank (2006), Argentina- Second Provincial Maternal-Child Health Investment Project,
    Second Phase of the Provincial Maternal-Child Health Program, Project Appraisal
    Document, Report No. 37702-AR, October 6, 2006, Washington, DC.
World Bank (2004-2010), Documents in Project’s Electronic File, including Loan Agreement,
    Loan Amendments, Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports, Project
    Financial Assessments, and Project Procurement Assessments; IRIS, Washington, D.C.

                                             69
World Bank (2004), Republic of Argentina – Country Partnership Assistance Strategy 2004-
   2007; Report No. 27340-AR, January 29, 2004, Washington D.C.
World Bank (2004), Argentina- Provincial Maternal-Child Health Investment Project, First
   Phase of the Provincial Maternal-Child Health Program, Project Appraisal Document,
   Report No.: 27892-AR, March 22, 2004, Washington, DC.
World Bank (2003), Argentina- Provincial Maternal- Child Health Sector Adjustment Loan,
   Project Document, Report No: 26527-AR, September 24, 2003, Washington, DC.
WHO (2001), The World Health Report 2000 - Health Systems: Improving Performance, World
   Health Organization, Geneva.




                                          70
Meetings Conducted during ICR Mission

National Government
National Health Ministry
Dr. Máximo Diosque, Secretario de Promoción y Programas Sanitarios
Dr. Juan Carlos Nadalich, ex Secretario de Promoción y Programas Sanitarios
Dr. Guillermo González Prieto, Subsecretario de Salud Comunitaria
Dra. Ana Speranza, Directora de Maternidad e Infancia
Verónica Ferraris, Coordinadora General de la Unidad de Financiamiento Internacional
de Salud

Plan Nacer Project Management Unit
Dr. Martín Sabignoso, Subcoordinador Nacional
Álvaro Ocáriz, Responsable del Área de Cápitas
Dra. Ana María Sala, Responsable de Supervisión Médica
Lic. Humberto Silva, Responsable del Área Técnica del Plan Nacer
Cdor. Ricardo Izquierdo, Responsable del Área Supervisión Administrativa del Plan
Nacer
Lic. Maria José García, Responsable del Área de Capacitación
Fernando Bazán, Área Técnica
Gabriela Cancellaro, Área de Comunicaciones
Joaquín Vitali, Área de Comunicaciones
Valeria Felzian, Área de Comunicaciones

Tucumán
Ministry of Health
Sergio Epstein, Sub-secretario del Ministerio de Salud
Dr. Fernando Avellaneda, Secretario Ejecutivo Médico del Siprosa

Plan Nacer Project Management Unit
Dr. Silvina Rivero, Coordinadora
Jorge Rospide, Control de Gestión
Mónica Rospide, Control de Gestión
Ctdr. Patricio Vincent, Área Administración
Ing. Silvina Naidicz, Área Operaciones
Dr. Isabel Mereles, Área Técnica
Dr. Martín González Montes, Área Legal

Primary Health Care Units (CAPs)
Dra. Yolanda Estella Brepe, Directora del CAP Corazón de María
Ing. Carina Assat, Proyecto de informatización de los CAPs

Salta
Ministry of Health
Dr. Gabriel Chagra Dib, Minister
Dr. Alejandro Gravanago, Secretario de Servicios de Salud

                                          71
Plan Nacer Project Management Unit
Dr. Oscar Mulki, Coordinador
Dra. Josefina Medrano, Área técnica
Cra. Marcela Haddad, Área administración
Cra. Marcela Tula, Control de gestión
Lic. Gabriela Farah, Área Comunicaciones
Lic. Guillermo Villanueva, Área operaciones
Dr. Mario Marosini, Ex auditor área de control de gestión

Health Care Providers
Dr. Martin de la Arena, Director Hospital del Milagro
Dr. Alberto Robledo, Cardiopatías, Hospital del Milagro

Misiones
Plan Nacer Project Management Unit
Dr. Germán Bezus, Coordinador
Luis López Torres, Asistente Legal
Dr. Fabián Borges do Canto, Gerente Control de Gestión
Lic. Victoria Carlzon, Área Técnica

Other Interviews

Concurrent Audits
Dr. Carlos Pestino, Howarth Argentina
Ctr. Silvina Montalbetti, Howard Argetina
Fábian Feder, PKF

World Bank

Rafael Cortez, TTL
Cristian Baeza, former TTL
Keisgner Alfaro, Senior Procurement Specialist
Luis Pérez, Sr. Health Specialist
Alejandro Solanot, Financial Manager Specialist
Daniela Romero, Extended Term Consultant
Paul Gertler, University of California at Berkley, Consultant, Evaluation Team
Vanina Camporeale, Operations Officer




                                            72
