Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4575-CE 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Health Sector Development Project) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 14, 2009 
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT dated August 14, 2009, entered into between the DEMOCRATIC 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (
“the Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“the Association”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the 
Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the 
Appendix to this Agreement or, where not otherwise defined, in the Original 
Financing Agreement (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
sixteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 16,300,000) (variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”); 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  3
-2- 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out Part 2, and cause the 
Provincial Councils to carry out Part 1, of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
 
(b) 
the Program shall have been amended, waived, or abrogated in a manner 
that could materially or adversely affect the Project’s implementation or 
the achievement of its objectives; 
 
(c) 
any of the Provincial Councils shall have failed to perform any of their 
respective obligations under the Implementation Agreements; 
 
(d) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make 
it improbable that any of the Provincial Councils will be able to perform 
any of their respective obligations under the Implementation 
Agreements; and 
 
(e) 
the Operational Manual shall have been amended, waived or abrogated 
so as to adversely affect the efficiency, economy, and transparency of 
various operational, implementation, and procurement procedures under 
this Project. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
of the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (e) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty (30) days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
 
Page  4
-3- 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative are: (a) the Secretary, Ministry of Finance and 
Planning; and (b) the Director General, Department of External Resources, 
Ministry of Finance and Planning of the Recipient. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Planning 
 
The Secretariat 
 
Colombo 1, Sri Lanka 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
SECMINFIN 
 FINMIN 
21409 
  94-112-449823 
 
FORAID 21232 94-1-447633 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
  1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
Page  5
-4- 
AGREED at Colombo, Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 
 
By 
/s/ Sumith Abeysinghe 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Naoko Ishii 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-5- 
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to improvements in efficiency, 
utilization, equity of access to, and quality of, the 
Recipient’s public sector health 
services with a particular focus on district and provincial level services. 
The Project consists of the following activities under the Original Project: 
Part 1
:
Support for Provincial Health Authorities and District level health agencies in
improving service delivery and outreach
Strengthening delivery of health services in remote and under-served areas by 
providing Provincial Health Authorities and district health teams appointed by 
the Provincial Health Authorities with more financial resources and enhancing 
their capacity for planning, management, and monitoring on the basis of 
approved Provincial Health Plans and District Health Plans. 
Part 2
:
Strengthening the stewardship functions of the Central Ministry of Healthcare 
and Nutrition
Development and more effective use of evidence base and information systems 
for policy, planning, monitoring and management. 
Page  7
-6- 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
For purposes of carrying out and coordinating the Project the Recipient shall 
maintain a Project Management Team having composition, staffing and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association. 
B. Implementation 
Agreements
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 1 the Project, the Recipient shall make part 
of the proceeds of the Financing available to the Provincial Councils under 
Implementation Agreements between the Recipient and each Provincial Council, 
under terms and conditions approved by the Association, including those set forth 
in the Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreements in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive any of 
the Implementation Agreements or any of their provisions
.
3. 
The Recipient shall: (i) ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with 
the provisions of the Original Financing Agreement, this Agreement, the 
Operational Manual, and the Waste Management Policy and Guidelines and 
applicable building codes; and (ii) promptly inform the Association of any 
changes made, or proposed to be made, to the Operational Manual or the Waste 
Management Policy and Guidelines. 
C. 
Eligibility of District Sub-Programs 
 
The eligibility of District Sub-Programs for financing from the proceeds of the 
Financing shall be as provided for in the Operational Manual, provided however 
that no proposal for a District Sub-Program shall be so eligible unless the 
Association shall have been satisfied with the progress made in carrying out any 
ongoing District Sub-Program in the District to which the proposal relates, on the 
basis of the monitoring indicators set out in the Operational Manual. 
 
D. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Page  8
-7- 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
Page  9
-8- 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  
Shopping 
(b)  
National Competitive Bidding 
(c)  
Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for c
onsultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  
Selection Under a Fixed Budget 
(b)  
Least-cost Selection 
(c)  
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d)  
Single Source Selection 
(e)  
Individual Consultants 
Page  10
-9- 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the  
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(inclusive of 
taxes) 
 
(1) 
Goods, consultants services, training, 
civil works and incremental operating 
costs under Part 1 of the Project for 
the Northern Province and the Eastern 
Province 
8,140,000 90% 
(2) 
Goods, consultants services, training, 
civil works and incremental operating 
costs under Part 1 of the Project for 
the Other Provinces 
7,470,000 90% 
(3) 
Goods, consultants services, training, 
civil works and incremental operating 
costs under Part 2 of the Project 
690,000 90% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
16,300,000 
 
Page  11
-10- 
For the purposes of this paragraph, the term " incremental operating costs" means 
incremental recurrent expenditures incurred on account of the Project for per diems, 
office supplies, vehicle rental charges (including passenger insurance), government 
motorcycle and vehicle operating charges (fuel, maintenance, and insurance), 
maintenance of office equipment, telephone and other communications charges, office 
rent, advertising costs for procuring goods, works and services, and bank charges for 
operation of designated account, and salaries of contract staff, but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Recipient's civil and public service. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a)  
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
 
under Categories 1 and 2 in respect of a Province unless an 
Implementation Agreement, acceptable to the Association, has been 
executed on behalf of the Recipient and the Provincial Council in charge 
of such Province, and the Association has received a legal opinion 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association, 
that such Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Recipient and the Provincial Councils and is legally binding upon 
the Recipient and the Provincial Councils in accordance with its terms. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Page  12
-11- 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Implementation Agreements 
 
For the purposes of Part 1 of the Project, the Recipient shall make part of the 
proceeds of the Financing available to each Provincial Council for the financing of 
activities to be undertaken within the jurisdiction of such Provincial Council under an 
Implementation Agreement between the Recipient and the Provincial Council, which 
shall contain terms and conditions approved by the Association, including the following: 
 
1. 
that the Provincial Council shall maintain its Provincial Health Authorities with 
staffing, organization, and functions, satisfactory to the Association and the 
Recipient; 
 
2. 
that the Provincial Council shall: (a) at all times implement its respective portions 
of the Project in accordance with the Original Financing Agreement, this 
Agreement, the Operational Manual, the Waste Management Policy and 
Guidelines, and applicable building codes; and (b) promptly inform the 
Association of any changes made, or proposed to be made, to their respective 
portions of the Project or to the Operational Manual; 
 
3. 
that the Provincial Council shall make available in a timely manner to the  health 
authorities in the Districts under its jurisdiction for District Sub-Programs that 
shall have been approved by the Association in accordance with Paragraph 5(a) 
below: (a) the proceeds of the Financing; and (b) additional funds from the 
Recipient’s own resources received by the Provincial Council from the Recipient 
to implement the Project which are necessary to carry out District Sub-Programs 
in accordance with formulas, terms, and conditions approved by the Association 
in consultation with the Recipient; 
 
4. 
that the Provincial Council shall ensure that expenditures in a Fiscal Year for 
District Sub-Programs to be financed from the proceeds of the Financing shall be 
in addition to those regular expenditures relating to the health sector in the 
Districts to be financed from the Recipient’s own resources; 
 
5. 
that the Provincial Council shall cause the health authorities in each District 
within its jurisdiction to: 
 
(a) 
prepare and submit for approval to the Association, by not later than 
November 30 of each Fiscal Year or such later date as the Association 
may agree, a District Health Plan which shall form the basis of a District 
Sub-Program for the following Fiscal Year and which shall detail 
activities to be carried out, any policy reforms and other measures to be 
implemented, the expenditures to be incurred, the sources of financing of 
such expenditures and the procurement methods to be followed; 
Page  13
-12- 
(b) 
modify and finalize the District Health Plan and the District  
Sub-Program for each Fiscal Year in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, taking into account its comments and views on the 
matter; 
 
(c) 
carry out the District Sub-Program in accordance with the 
provisions of the Original Financing Agreement, this Agreement, 
the Operational Manual, the Waste Management Policy and 
Guidelines, any memorandum of understanding between the 
Provincial Council and the Recipient, and applicable building 
codes; and 
 
(d) 
refrain from making any material changes or amendments to an 
approved District Sub-Program without consulting the 
Association. 
 
Page  14
-13- 
SCHEDULE 4
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each February 1 and August 1, commencing 
August 1, 2019, to and including February 1, 
2029. 
 
5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  15
-14- 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
3. 
“District Health Plan” means an annual work plan for a Fiscal Year prepared for 
a
District, which forms the basis for its District Sub-Program. 
4. 
“District Sub-Program” means a District’s program of activities and expenditures 
for the health sector in a Fiscal Year that: (i) are formulated on the basis of the 
District Health Plan; and (ii) receive financing from the proceeds of the 
Financing. 
5. 
“District” means an administrative district within a Province. 
6. 
“Eastern Province” means the Eastern Province of the Recipient. 
7. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on January 1 and 
ending on the following December 31. 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
9. 
“Implementation Agreement” means an agreement entered into between the 
Recipient and a Provincial Council regarding implementation of this Project, 
including any amendments made from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to an implementation agreement. 
10. 
“Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition” means the Recipient’s Ministry of 
Healthcare and Nutrition, or any successor entity thereto. 
11. 
“Northern Province” means the Northern Province of the Recipient. 
12. 
“Operational Manual” means the Recipient’s operation manual, satisfactory and 
acceptable to the Association, setting forth various operational, financial 
management, and procurement procedures governing the operation of the Project 
and the Original Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes any schedules to the Operational Manual; provided however, 
Page  16
-15- 
if there is a conflict between this Agreement and the Operational Manual, the 
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
13. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development grant agreement for the 
Health Sector Development Project between the Recipient and the Association, 
dated July 9, 2004, as amended from time to time in agreement  between the 
Recipient and the Association (IDA Grant No. H095-CE). 
14. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
15. 
“Other Provinces” means all the Provinces of the Recipient with the exception of 
the Eastern Province and the Northern Province. 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for Part 2 of the 
Project, dated April 15, 2005, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
18. 
“Program” means the Recipient’s Strategic Framework for Health Development 
in Sri Lanka dated August 12, 2003, a comprehensive strategy for the 
development of the health sector. 
19. 
“Provincial Council” means a Provincial Council of the Recipient constituted 
under the Provincial Councils Act (No. 42 of 1987) that is a party to an 
Implementation Agreement with the Recipient. 
20. 
“Provincial Health Authorities” means the health ministries and departments, as 
the case may be, of any of the Recipient’s Provincial Councils; 
21. 
“Provincial Health Plan” means an annual work plan for a Fiscal Year prepared 
for a Province which includes, among other things a summary of the District 
Health Plans for districts falling under the Province. 
22. 
“Waste Management Policy and Guidelines” means the Recipient’s National 
Policy and Guidelines for Health Care Waste Management dated 
October 31, 2001, including any amendments to such document, satisfactory to 
the Association, that shall: (i) enable the Recipient to assess, among other things, 
the Project’s environmental and social impacts; and (ii) where applicable, govern 
the preparation of environmental management plans and other appropriate 
mechanisms, satisfactory to the Association, required to mitigate and monitor any 
adverse impacts from carrying out the Project. 
Page  17
-16- 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the 
Association, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (i) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Association 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Association or the Bank has declared the Project 
Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the 
Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or 
the Bank, as a result of a determination by the Association or the Bank that the 
Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Association or the Bank.” 
 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.”
 
