Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CX 0. O97- C: 4A
Repert No. 7664-CIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
JJANGXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 19, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
ITis document has a mtdcted dirbutkoo and may be ued by redpl  only n tbe perfornce
I * .M,, ,, .*   J. I, -  .,  v                         p i .n-o.Iyl. 



CR2 RENY RUIVALEI
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00      -  Y 3.71
Y 1.00       -  US$0.27
(As of Nay, 1989)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND NEASURES
1 meter (i)        - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)   - 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)     - 2.47 acres
1mu                - 0.067 ha
1 ton (t)          - 1,000 kg
- 2,205 pounds
1 kg               - 2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC           - Agricultural Bank of China
ADC           - Agricultural Development Corporation
AI            - Artificial Insemination
BFO           - Bureau of Forestry
BOF           - Bureau of Finance
CEROILS       - China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and
Export Corporation
CMIEC         - China National Machinery Import and Export Corporation
EPB           - Environmental Protection Bureau
ERR           - Economic Rate of Return
FRR           - Financial Rate of Return
FTB           - Foreign Trade Bureau
FTC           - Foreign Trade Corporation
GVAO          - Gross Value of Agricultural. Output
ICB           - International Competitive Bidding
ILS           - International and Local Shopping
JADC          - Jiangxi Agricultural Development Corporation
LCB           - Local Competitive Bidding
MFO           - Ministry of Forestry
MOA           - Ministry of Agriculture
MOC           - Ministry of Commerce
MOF           - Ministry of Finance
MOFERT        - Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and'. Trade
PCC           - Provincial Coordinating Committee
PCR           - Project Completion Report
PO            - Project Office
SAIC          - State Administration of Industry and Commerce
SFF           - State Forest Farm
SH            - Specialized Household
SMC           - Supply and Marketing Cooperative
SOE           - Statement of Expenditure
SPC           - State Planning Commission



FOR OFFICIAL US ONLY
CHINA
JIANGXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Suarv
Borrover:     People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:  Jiangxi Provincial Government
Amount:       SDR 46.2 million (US$60 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard, with 35 years maturity.
Relending
Terms:      From Central Government to Jiangxi Province: 15 years, including 5
years grace, with interest at 5.3% p.a. The Province would bear
the full foreign exchange risk. End users would pay interest at
the Agricultural Bank of China's prevailing rates for similar
loans for similar purposes.
Project
Objectives and
Description:  The proposed project would assist the Jiangxi Provincial
Government to accelerate and diversify agricultural development.
It would improve the productivity and incomes of participating
farmers and strengthen supporting services at the provincial,
prefectural, municipal and county lev3ls, thereby moving farm
operations from a subsistence level to commercial orientation. It
would ,.lso utilize lands which are unproductive or unsuitable for
grains and other crops. It would support a livestock development
program featuring pigs and poultry on hilly lands unsuitable for
grain cultivation, develop and intensify freshwater fish culture
in low-lying areas and in lakes and ponds, rehabilicate
low-yielding tea plantations and establish new commercial forest
plantations.   The project would also establish agroprocessing
facilities to increase the value-added of project output, to
provide feed for project livestock, and to demonstrate the
organization, management and financing of such facilities.
Benefits and
Risks:      At full development, annual incremental production would amount to
about 12 million ducks and geese, 26,000 t of eggs, 300,000 pigs,
19,000 t of fish, 2 t of pearls and 5,300 t of tea. Over the
20-year project life, the forestry component would produce some
59,000 m3 of pulpwood, 579,000 m3 of logs and poles, and 88,000 t
of resin. The value of annual incremental output would be about
US$128 million annually. The project would increase incomes for
some 18,650 farm families, create about 8,285 permanent jobs and
provide annual employment of casual labor equivalent to about 540
man years. Ecological benefits, in the form of soil and water
conservation, would be gained from the afforestation schemes and
tea rehabilitation. No unusual technical, financial or
organizational risks are anticipated; to minimize any risk
associated with availability of livestock feed, an agreement would
be reached that the provincial government would make available
funds to procure raw materials domestically or abroad.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be di-closed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                 Local            Foreign              Total
------------------($ mln)----------------
Livestock
Fig production                   6.2                1.7                7.9
Poultry production               6.7                0.8                7.5
Aquaculture                       13.4                1.0               14.4
Forestry                           3.8                1.2                5.0
Tea Improvement                    9.2                2 6               11.8
Processing
Feedhills                        4.0                7.8               11.8
Pork processing                  0.5                0.1                0.6
Poultry processing               4.8                3.8                8.6
Tea processing                   6.3                1.8                8.1
Rosin production                 0.8                0.2                1.0
Research, Training and TA          4.0                1.0                5.0
Incremental Working Capital       16.6                6.1               22.7
Base Cost                       76.3               28.1              104.4
Physical Contingency               5.5                1.8                7.3
Price Contingency                  7.3                2.7               10.0
Total Project Cost            89.1               32.6              121.7
Financing Plan:
IDA                           27.4               32.6               60.0
Provincial government          9.0                                   9.0
Municipal and
prefectural governments    10.4                                   10.4
End-user contributions        17.6                                  17.6
Domestic loans                24.7                                  24.7
Total                         89.1               32.6              121.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank/IDA FY                     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994      1995
Annual                         5.0      16.0     22.0       9.0      7.0       1.0
Cumulative                     5.0      21.0     43.0     52.0      59.0     60.0
Economic Rate nf Return: 39%
--.. ... ...............



CHIN
JIANGXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I.  BACKGROUND   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  1
A. Introduction                               .1
B. The Agricultural Sector    ..
C.  Sectoral Objectives and Bank Lending . . . . . . . . . .    . . . 4
D. Agriculture in Jiangxi   ..6
E.  Project Formulation and Rationale  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
II. THE PROJECT AREAS                               .8
A. Location                                 .8
B. Climate                                 .8
C. Topography and Soils                            .8
D. Population and Land Use . .                          .
E.  Power and Transport. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
F.  Research and Extension . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
G.  Livestock Support Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
H.  Credit    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .13
III.   THE   PROJECT  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .14
A.  Project Objectives and Relation to Sector  . . . . . . . . . . .14
B.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
C.  Detailed Features. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
D.  Status of Project Preparation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22
E.  ImplementaLion Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22
F.  Cost   Estimates   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .22
G.  Financing    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .23
H.  Procurement    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .23
I.    Disbursements   .  .  .    .  .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .   .    .  .26
J.  Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
K.  Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28
A.  Project Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28
B.  Project Coordinating Committees and Project Offices  . . . . . .28
C.  Agricultural Development Corporations  . . .             .   . . . . . . 29
D.  Financial Management . . . . . . . . . . . . .             . . . . . . .30
E.  Execution of Project Works . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
F.  Management of Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
G.  Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission to China in
October 1988 and an appraisal mission in January 1989. Members of the
preappraisal mission were N. Hill, P. Harrell, W. Price, C. Rees
(Bank/IDA), M. Pedini, T. Lohavisavapanich (FAO/CP), C. Benigough, C.L.
Cheong, J. Hald, W. Roeland, and T.C. Tso (Consultants). The appraisal
mission comprised N. Hill, P. Harrell (Bank/IDA), M. Pedini, T.
Lohavisavapanich (FAO/CP), J. Hald, and W. Roeland (Consultants).



V.  PRODUCTION       .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .33
A.  Livestock   .  .    .  .    .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .    .  .  .    .    .    .  .    .  .    .    .  .    .33
B.    Aquaculture  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .36
C.  Forestry   .  .    .    .  .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .    .   .  .    .  .    .  .    .  .37
D.   Tea  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .38
VI. MARKETS AND PRICES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
A.  Market Prospects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
B.   Prices    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .41
C.  Marketing Channels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43
VII.BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . .45
A.  Production and Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .45
B.  Employment   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .   .    .45
C.  Financial Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .45
D.  Incomes   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .47
E.  Economic Analyses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .47
F.  Risks   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .48
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .49
TABLES IN THE TEXT
3.1  Project Cost Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.2  Procurement Profile . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.1  Incremental Production  . . . . . . . . . . . .
7.1  Financial Rates of Return . . . . . . . . . . .
7.2  Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity  . . .
ANNEXES
1. Background
Project Area Statistics (Tables 1 - 3)
Project Feed Requirements (Tables 4-8)
Distribution of Project Works (Table 9)
2. Cost Data
Cost Summaries and Expenditure Schedule (Tables 1 - 5)
Working Capital Requirements (Teble 6)
Disbursement Schedule (Table 7)
3. Training and Technical Assistance
4. Financial and Economic Analyses
Financial Analysis - 4 sows and 60 fattening pigs (Table 1)
Financial Prices of Inputs (Table 2)
Financial Prices of Outputs (Table 3)
Financial Results (Table 4)
Fish Production Households - Annual Net Income (Table 5)
Selected Conversion Factors (Table 6)
Economic Prices of Inputs (Table 7)
Economic Prices of Outputs (Table 8)
Feed Financial and Economic Price Structure (Table 9)
Economic Price Derivation (Table 10)
Economic Analysis - 4 sows and 60 fattening pigs (Table 11)
Economic Analysis - Whole Project (Table 12)



- iii 
5. Operating Guidelines for JADC
6. Trade and Prices
National Annual Net Trade in Principal Project Outputs (Table 1)
Jiangxi Annual Net Trade in Selected Project Outputs (Table 2)
Procurement and Retail Prices for Selected Project Outputs (Table 3)
7. Key Monitoring Indicators
Livestock (Table 1)
Aquaculture (Table 2)
Tea end Forestry (Table 3)
8. Procurement
List of Equipment (Table 1)
List of Materials (Table 2)
List of Vehicles (Table 3)
9. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LIST OF FIGURES
A.   Implementation Schedule
2.   Organization Chart
3.   Flow of IDA Funds
4 &
5. Procurement Schedule
LIST OF M&A
IBRD No. 21453 Project Locations in Jiangxi



CHIN
JIANGXl AGRICU;,TLJUL DEVELCPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1      The Government of China has requested Bank Group assistance .n
financing an agricultural development project in Jiangxi Province. The
main objectives of the project are to accelerate and diversify
agricultural development and increase incomss and employment in the rural
sector. The proposed project has components for pig and poultry raising,
fisheries, tea rehabilitation, afforestation and agroprocessing and would
be concentrated in three regions of the province--the Jitai Basin, Poyang,
and Jingdezhen. The project was first identifiel in December 1987. It
was prepared by the Jiangxi Provincial Government with assistance of an
FAO/CP preparation mission in April 1988. A preappraisal mission visited
the project areas in October 1988 and appraisal took place in mid-January
1989.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.2      Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
f'isheries, provides sustenance to over one billion people; it is an
important source of income for some 190 million farm families and accounts
for about 30% of the country's GDP. Only about 137 million ha of China's
land area of 960 million ha are arable.   Farming systems are intensive
with heavy inputs of labor, chemical and organic ierrilizers, small
machinery and water. Nearly half of the cropped area is irrigated.
Foodgrains occupy about 70% of the cropland and account for about
one-third of total agricultural output. This intensive system of
production has allowed China to meet the basic food requirements of its
population, about 22% of the world's total, and to produce an increasingly
sophisticated mix of cash and commercial crops, from less than 11% of the
world's arable land.
1.3      China's decade-long rural reform program has revitalized the
agricultural sector through improved work incentives, decentralized
decision-making, better exploitation of comparative advantages,
decontrolled agricultural markets and prices, and technological
modernization. The program has resulted in impressive growth of income
and production and a remarkable diversification in family diets. The
gross value of agricultural output (GVAO) increased by 77% in real terms
during 1978-87, at an average annual rate (6.5%) more than twice that of
the previous 25 years (3.2%). Grain production, one of the key indicators
of China's agriculture, increased by about one-third (100 million tons)
over the same period. However, several major problems have emerged in
recent years. First, state investment in agriculture has declined,
dropping from Y5.3 to 3.7 billion during 1978-86, or from 10.6% to only
3.1% of total state capital construction. The downturn in rural
investment has contributed to increasing bottlenecks in infrastructure
(roads, power, and market facilities) and a minor decrease in irrigated
area. Second, of great concern to the Government, a 5% decline in giain
production has occurred since the record harvest (407 million tons) of



1984. Most observers ascribe this development to continuing rigidities in
the pricing of grain while liberalization of markets for high-valued
products (fruit, meat, fish, eggs, milk, silk, shrimp, etc.) provides much
stronger income incentives for farmers.
1.4      The Government has responded to these problems by reversing the
decline in state investment in agriculture which was increased to Y4.4
billion in 1987, with priority given to the rehabilitation and. expansion
of irrigation. Objecctves for agriculture during the Plan period are to
maintain per capita grain :onsumption at current levels while continuing
to diversify the overall output structure to accommodate chaneing consumer
preferences. This means increasing food grain output to 450 million t by
1995 to match population growth, boosting production of fruits,
vegetables, meat, poultry, fish and cash crops, and exoanding output of
processed products. To achieve sector growth, Chinese planners, on the
one hand, are cailing for technology improvement and maintaining sown area
at current levels, ard on the other, are supporting a series of systemic
reforms which include: (a) allowing diverse forms of enterprise ownership
and management to encourage growth of rural agroprocessing, transport, and
commerce; (b) establishing legal guarantees to farmers regarding land use
rights and ownership of assets; and (c) expanding marketing channels and
introducing some measure of price decontrol. The Bank Group is supporting
these reforms through a Rural Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2967/Credit
1932-CHA).
Livestock
1.5      Livestock comprised 15% of the GVAO in 1987.  Of total meat
production, pigs contributed about 88%, poultry 8%, and other livestock
only 4%.  As part of the government's efforts to improve cotiiumption
patterns, targets have been set ror liveqtosk production.  By the year
2000, the contribution of the livestock subsector to GVAO is projected to
rise to 25%. The major means to achieve production targets would be more
efficient production and management, a higher level of grain feeding,
pasture improvement for ruminants, and the use of animals with superior
genetic characteristics. Technical feasibility would depend on the
availability of grain, grass and protein supplements; sustainable farmer
incentives would also need to be introduced and maintained.
1.6      China is the world's largest pig producer.  The year-end
inventory for 1988 was 342 million head, the number of slaughtered pigs
275 million, and total pork production about 19 million tons. These
figures indicate a recovery from the temporary downturn which occurred in
the pig industry in late 1987 due to low state procurement prices and high
feed costs which caused farmers to rush pigs and breeding sows to
slaughter.  The central      provincial governments undertook a number of
policies to increase pi      duction, such as raising procurement prices
for pork 30-40% to levels   mparable to free-market prices and allowing
farmers selling pigs to the state to buy grain, fertilizer, diesel fuel
and compound feed at low state-fixed prices. From 90-95% of production is
accounted for by farmers raising one to four pigs, with thosa raising



-3.
one or two generally able to rely solely on non-purchased feed resources
(plant and food waste) and thus not affected by feed prices. Given the
relatively low level of technology, poor feed quality and inferior breeds
being raised by most producers, an average of 5 kg of feed is required for
1 kg weight gain versus a 3:1 ratio on modern Western swine operations.
Government officials generally believe that a pig (live weight) to grain
(paddy) price ratio of 5:1 is the minimum necessary for profitability: the
prevailing ratio is 7:1. The Government -ontinues to en.co-rage breeding of
lean meat pigs (for both domestic and export markets) through
establishment of lean pig production bases, and in 1987, 21% of slaughter
was lean meat pigs. Lean pig production is dependent on production of
formulated feed with adequate amounts of both protein and energy
components and availability of imported breeds for crossing with local
breeds.
1.7      Poultry production, about 75% chicken, 20% ducks and the rest
geese and other minor birds, is increasing very rapidly. Output of
poultry meat rose to a record 2.3 million t in 1988, a 13% increase over
1987. The government has given special emphasis to poultry development
because of poultry's superior feed conversion ratio relative to other
livestock. Egg production is also expanding steadily. China produced
nearly 6.5 million t of eggs in 1988, up 8% over 1987 levels.
Fisheries
1.8      China is the world's largest producer of freshwater fish and the
third largest fishing nation afte; the U.S.S.R. and Japan. The subsector,
including culture and capture production from marine and freshwater
sources, accounts for about 4% of the GVAO. Total aquatic production
(including fish, shrimp, shellfish and seaweed ptoduced in Chinese waters
and harvested by Chinese vessels in other waters through joint ventures
with other countries) increased from 5.3 million t in 1983 to 10.5 million
t in 1988, an increase of 98%. The structure of production was freshwater
culture (36%), freshwater capture (6%), marine capture (46%) and marine
culture (12%). While marine capture fisheries contribute the greatest
volume, the high value fish, particularly off the China coast, are facing
depletion and increasing amounts of the catch are made up of small fish
with low economic value. Government policy since the early 1980s has
aimed toward shifting the production structure from capture to culture
fisheries by increasing unit output in the Yangtze and Pearl River deltas,
areas where there is a long tradition of aquaculture, and by developirng
wasteland to expand the area for fish farming. The existence of extensive
unutilized land suitable for culture fisheries and the fact that
significant increases in yields may be realized through application of new
technology and management methods led the Government to adopt in the early
1980s a program to expand annual fisheries production to 11 million t by
the year 2000; with prospects of achieving this level by 1990, the target
has been revised upwards to 18 million t. A major unknown in the future
development of aquaculture is the extent to which it will be economic to
feed concentrates as opposed to more traditional feeds such as grass and
pig and poultry manure. It is likely that a substantial amount of the
incremental feed requirements of aquaculture must come from concentrates,
which may be justified by rising real prices for aquatic products.



4-
Forest=
1.9      The forest subsector accounts for 5% of GVAO and provides
employment for some 2.2 million workers. Present forest cover is about
12t, which translates to a standing wood volume of 9.1 m3 per
capita--compared to the world average of l0 m3 per capita. With annual
wood consumption of some 400 million o3 and annual incremental forest
growth of 300 million m3, China has had to increase imports, overcut
natural forests, and open roeote forest stands. Since the gap betweon
supply and demand is constraining develop-ent and jeopardizing China's
remaining forests, the Government has drafted a plan to increase timber
production and reduce imports; this plan calls for afforestation of 8
million ha by the year 2000.
1.10          Tea production grew at an an annual rate of 6.1% over the
1983-88 period to reach 540,000 t in 1988.   About 80% of production is
green tea, and 20% black tea; however, only 20% of the green tea is
exported and about 90% of the black tea, mainly to Eastern Europe.
Domestic consumption of about 0.3 kg per capita is expected to rise to at
least 0.5 kg by the year 2000; this would require production of about
670,000 t to fill domestic demand. With about 1.1 million ha planted and
80% of this area picked, yields of refined tea are less than 0.6 t/ha--a
low rate compared to other temperate climate tea producing areas where
yields are in the range of 1.5 - 2.0 t/ha.
C. Sectoral Objectives and Bank Lendine
1.11     For fisheries and livestock development, the Government's
objectives are to increase production for domestic consumption and exports
and provide an additional source of income for the rural population.
High-valued aquatic products (shrimp, eel, pearls) and livestock products
(meat, wool) are being targeted for export markets. The aquatic
development strategy emphasizes establishment of fish culture systems on
land unsuitable for crop cultivation--freshwater culture on swamps,
floodplains, marshes and poorly drained interior land and marine culture
on coastal lowlands, shoals and mudflats. The livestock development
strategy emphasizes the provisior of superior breeding stock and good
quality feed, industrial (stall-red) management systems, pasture
improvement and development of new pasture species, the establishment of
processing plants, and the provision of supporting services such as
scientific breeding (with greater use of artificial insemination) and
improved veterinary services.
1.12     The main objectives of the forestry subsector are to produce and
supply timber in the most cost effective way and to substitute for rapidly
growing imports. Since the rapid increase in forest production envisioned
under the Seventh Five-Year Plan is critically important for the Chinese
economy and since its earlier programs for plantation establishment have
met with limited success, the Government has requested Bank Group
assistance in providing access to state-of-the-art technology, expertise
and funds to launch a massive commercially-oriented afforestation program
and set up an institutional and managerial framework for efficient



planting and silviculture. For this purpose, a Forestry Sector Loan is
under preparation by the Bank Group for FY90. The Bank Group is also
financing the Forestry Development Project (Cr. 1605-CHA), which is
improving State Forest Farms in three provinces, and the Da Xing An Ling
Forest Fire Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1918-CHA).
1.13     The Bank's strategy for lending to Cnina's agricultural sector
has supported government efforts to expand and diversify agricultural
production through more efficient use of human and physical resources.
Lending to date has covered a broad spectrum of geographic areas and
subsectors, with an overall focus on land development, upgrading
agricultural support services (such as research and credit), strengthening
specialized product subsectors (such as tubber and fisheries), and, more
recently, area development. The area development approach, which
generally targets difficult development problems, combines in a single
project assistance to land development and support services previously the
subject of separate projects. Although focussed on specific geographic
areas, many of the past projects represented initiatives of the central
government. Over the past year the Bank Group has appraised a series of
provincial projects in which the area development approach is being
applied, but in which responsibility for proposing and preparing
components and for repaying project funds rests with provincial
governments and their lower level jurisdictions (prefectures,
municipalities, counties and townships). This is a new direction intended
to increase the efficiency of project management and execution and to
expand the Bank's involvement in provincial agricultural investment
programs, which now constitute the great bulk cf all investment in the
sector. It takes advantage of increasing delegation of development
planning and implementation to local government authorities in China,
which has generated strong local commitment to the development of
profitable and effective subprojects. The Shandong and Shaanxi
Agricu-ltural Development projects have recently been approved by IDA. The
present project would be the third of this series.
1.14     Implementation of most ongoing Bank Group financed projects in
the agriculture sector is on schedule. Physical works have been completed
on time or ahead of schedule. Disbursements for agricultural projects
usually outpace those in other sectors. Notable features of all the
projects are the high standard of project management, the enthusiastic
participation of farmers and the effective collaboration of government
authorities at All levels. The recently completed North China Plain
Agriculture Project (Cr. 1261-CHA) demonstrates these features and also
achieved economic benefits (an ERR of 56%) that far exceed those
anticipated at appraisal. The second agricultural project in China, the
Heilongjiang Land Reclamation Project (Cr. 1347-CHA) is now being
completed. In only five years, it has succeeded in reclaiming 200,000 ha
of bogs in an extremely difficult agricultural regiorn (near the Siber_an
border) for the efficient production of wheat, corn and soybeans, while
introducing modern large-scale mechanized land preparation and harvesting
to China's northeast region.



- 6 -
D. Agriculture in Jiangxi
1.15     Jiangxi Province is located about 300 km inland from the
southeast China coast, bounded by Zhejiang and Fujian provinces to the
east, Guangdong to the south, Hunan to the west, and Hubei and Anhui
provinces to the north. The southern and western regions of the province
are mountainous and runoff is carried north by five main rivers emptying
into Poyang Lake and from there into the Yangtze River which forms the
northern boundary of the province. The total area of the province is
166,700 sq km (16.67 million ha), of which 36% is mountainous, 42% hilly,
and 22% flat land and water surfaces. The total cultivated area (1987) is
estimated at 2.36 million ha of which 1.84 million ha are irrigated.
1.16     Reflecting a high degree of multiple cropping, the area presently
sown is about 5.5 million ha, of which 67% is devoted to grain--mainly
double-cropped rice, 12% to industrial crops and the balance to other
crops. In 1987, agriculture accounted for about 29% of the gross value of
output, 65% of the total labor force, and about 60% of provincial
exports. Agroprocessing enterprises, depending on raw mat_,rials from
agriculture, dominate the light industry sub-sector and account for 65% of
its output. Jiangxi's population numbers 35.6 million, of which 82% are
rural. In 1987 prices, per capita income of the farming population was
estimated at Y429, about 7% lower than the national rural average of
Y463.
1.17     The provincial livestock sector is dominated by household
production units raising pigs and poultry as a sideline to take advantage
of family labor, excess grain and crop by-products, mainly rice straw and
bran. It is estimated that individual households are responsible for more
than 85% of pig production, specialized households about 9-10%, and state
farms about 5%. Most rural families generally have 1-2 pigs and about 10
chickens or ducks. In 1987, the year-end inventory of pigs was a record
high of 13.9 million.  Growth to slaughter weight (90   105 kg) is slow,
due to reliance on forage arnd low energy rice by-products. Poultry number
72 million and annual egg production under household production units is
little more than 100 eggs per layer. Cattle and buffalo are used mainly
as draft animals. Sheep numbers are very small.
1.18     Total fisheries production in 1987 was 225,800 t, representing a
17% increase over 1986. The province is endowed with a large number of
streams, lakes and reservoirs and has a total breeding area of 254,000
ha. Poyang Lake covers some 5,000 sq km and is the largest freshwater
lake in China with more than one hundred different fish species. Jiangxi
is not considered to be at an advanced level of aquaculture development;
modern pond culture practices have been introduced only recently (in part
through the Freshwater Fisheries Project, Cr. 1689-CHA).  Natural
conditions in Jiangxi are favorable for freshwater pearl cultivation, and
skilled workers have mastered the selection of the appropriate varieties
of freshwater mussel and the delicate technique of tissue implantation for
culturing pearls.
1.19     Forest cover in Jiangxi, according to the latest (1983) forest
inventory, is about 33% or 5.5 million ha, comprising nearly 4.4 million
ha of natural forest and 1.2 million ha of forest plantations. Another



-7-
2.85 million ha are classified as "barren hills suitable for forestry."
Between 1975 and 1983, however, total forested area diminished by 0.6
million ha due to overharvesting. Since then, the Bureau of Forestry
(BFO) has instituted strict controls on felling and extraction, and wood
output has declined from 3.0 million m3 in 1980 to 2.5 million m3 in
1987. Jiangxi's year 2000 targets are to increase forested area from 5.5
to 9.1 million ha (cover rate to increase from 33% to 54%), expand the
standing volume of timber from 253 to 360 million m3, and increase the
annual growth rate of trees from 5.8 to 7 percent. Chinese fir
(Cunninghamia lancelota), Masson Pine (Pinus massoniana), slash or wetland
pine (Pinus elliottii) and mixed broadleafs are the main tree species
spread throughout the province   ResinLI is now tapped only from Masson
pine and some 15,000 t of its total output of 35,000 t is exported to
Japan, Hong Kong and Western Europe. Slash pine, which is considered
suitable for soil conservation in red soils, can also be tapped for resin,
producing higher yields and better quality than that of Masson pine.
1.20     Tea plantations cover about 59,800 ha, of which 2,800 ha are
classified as immature and 13,000 ha as well beyond economic productivity,
thus leaving 44,000 ha of productive tea which accounted for the
production of 17,000 t in 1987. About 75% of production is green tea,
while 20% is black tea and 5% Oolong. Yields are low at 400 kg/ha, while
the national average is 630 kg and the world average is 1,125 kg. Only
6,700 ha or 15% of the total area could be considered as economicallv
viable, producing above the bench-mark yield of 750 kg/ha set by the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). Though natural conditions in these areas
are suitable for tea cultivation, yields are low because of poor cultural
practices, inadequate plant renewal and inefficient processing. Tea
production is mainly concentrated in three prefectures (Shangrao: 7,500 t,
Jinjiang City: 3,000 t, and Jingdezhen City: 2,000 t).
E. Project Formulation and Rationale
1.21     In formulating the project, the Jiangxi Provincial Government
sought to select activities which would provide significant income
increases for farmers, communities, and local governments; generate
foreign exchange earnings; raise levels of technology and management
(particularly in livestock, fisheries, and feed milling sectors) which
would be dispersed throughout the project regions via the demonstration
effect of higher incomes; and increase forest cover in the province. The
project builds on the experience gained under the Nanchang component of
the Freshwater Fisheries Project (Cr. 1689-CHA) and the Red Soils Project
(Cr. 1733-CHA), particularly in the areas of smallholder livestock,
aquaculture and project management. Lessons and experience gained from
the proposed project could serve as a model for further agricultural
development in the province. The Bank Group contribution, in addition to
project design and finance, is in investment analysis to eliminate
economically unviable components, a credit program design Lased on
recycling funds to benefit increasing numbers of households, regional feed
requirement planning for both project production and increases in
production of livestock and fish, and technical innovation. particularly
in relation to livestock breed improvement and feedmill and agroprocessing
plant design and specification.
LI Resin, tapped from living pine trees, is processed into gum rosin and
gum turpentine for industrial use.



-8-
II. PROJECT AREAS
A. Location
2.1     The proposed project areas are in the north, northeastern, and
central parts of Jiangxi Province. Sites in the north are located in the
low flood plain surrounding Poyang Lake. Activities in the Poyang area
would focus on development of livestock, aquaculture, and agro-processing
in 13 counties covering a gross area of 23,000 sq km and a population of 7
million. To the northeast. .n the hill country surrounding Jingdezhen
city, the project would carry out tea and forestry components on about
7,000 ha in five districts which are under city administration.
Additional project activities in livestock, aquaculture, forestry, and
agro-processing would take place in central Jiangxi in the Jitai Basin to
the west of the Gan River. The Jitai sites are located in eight counties
and the city of Jian which altogether account for a gross area of 19,500 sq
km and 3 million people. Project locations and area statistics are given in
IBRD Map No. 21453 and Annex 1.
B. Climate
2.2     The three project areas share a subtropical monsoon climate with
dry, mild winters and hot, wet summers. Average daily temperatures range
from a January low of 5 degrees C to 29 degrees in July. Annual
precipitation averages from 1,900 mm in the north to 1,300 mm in central
Jiangxi. Rainfall is distributed unevenly throughout the year with about
70% concentrated in the months of March through July. The frost-free
period is about 300 days. Climatic conditions in the Jingdezhen area are
good for tea production: the warm temperatures and frequent overcast skies
and heavy fog during the growing season (April to October) are conducive to
growth of high quality leaves. With respect to the slash pine plantations
proposed for the Jingdezhen and Jitai areas, the prevailing climate is
similar to that of the southern US where the tree originated.
C. ToRography and4 Soils
2.3     The Jingdezhen and Jitai Basin areas are similar in topography:
predominantly hilly terrain interspersed with broad valleys where rice is
the main crop. Elevations in the Jingdezhen area range from 100 to 500 m
above sea level; the Jitai Basin is slightly higher, ranging from 200 to
700 m. The Poyang area consists of a flat alluvial plain formed by the
province's five major rivers. The Gan River, which intersects Jiangxi from
south to north, flows into the Yangtze through Poyang Lake. The lake
fluctuates in size during the year, growing to a maximum of about 5,000 sq
km and a depth of 20 m at the height of the March-July flood season, and
shrinking in winter by as much as ten m into several large, shallow lakes.
These lakes are havens for waterfowl which concentrate on the shores with
increasing density as water levels reduce during the winter. In 1983, the
Ministry of Forestry (MFO) established a 22,400 ha wildlife preserve to the
north of the project area near the confluence of the Gan and Xiu Rivers,
primarily for the purpose of proLecting the wintering Siberian and other
crane populations.



l9-
2.4     Soils in the three project areas are mainly the visibly striking
red soils. These soils are characterized chemically by their acid (low pH)
condition and a relatively low nutrient status resulting from continuous
leaching under the heavy rainfall typical of the regions where they occur.
The soils are usually deep and well structured, except where erosion,
either natural or man-induced, has truncated or otherwise impoverished the
soil profile. With application of fertilizer, red soils are suitable for a
wide range of tropical and subtropical crops, especially deep rooting
perennials, or for forestry.
D. Popuation And Land. Use
2.5     Poyang Lake Region.  Some 1.4 million families live in the 13
counties in the Poyang project area, about 80% of them agricultural. Farm
incomes are variable. 1987 rural incomes on a per capita basis for the
three most populous counties, Poyang, Fengcheng, and Nanchang, were Y341,
Y510, and Y517, respectively. The average farm household operates 0.4 ha,
80% of it irrigated. Of the total sown area of 1.4 million ha, two-thirds
are planted with grain. Total grain production in 1987 was 4.1 million t
or 585 kg/capita. Agriculture occupied 62% of 1987 GVAO (Y2.6 billion),
livestock 19%, sideline activities 10%, fisheries 4% and forestry 2%.
Livestock raising and fish farming have grown markedly in the Poyang area
in recent years, by 10% and 20%, respectively, between 1981-87. The bulk of
livestock income comes from meat production which has expanded rapidly in
response to consumer demands. The greatest emphasis is on pork production:
the 13 counties in the Poyang project _rea produced 177,000 t or over 20%
of total provincial pork output in 1987. However, consumer demand for
poultry and eggs is on the rise along with a marked preference for lean
over fat pork. Consumption of poultry in Jiangxi as a whole increased 19%
between 1986 and 1987. Major constraints to continued expansion of meat,
poultry and associated products, are shortages of formula feed and the need
for genetically improved breeds which are more efficient meat producers.
2.6     Fish farming at present in the Poyang area is primarily carp
polyculture in lakes and artificial ponds. Area and production have
increased rapidly since 1985; 1987 output stvod at 82,000 t, 36% of the
total for the province. Yields from fish ponds average a low 1.7 t/ha.
Yields from lake culture are much lower. Major constraints to better yields
are lack of technical knowledge of modern pond culture practices and cage
and enclosure culture, poor drainage facilities in an area vulnerable to
flooding, and limited use of formulated fish feeds.
2.7     Jinedezhen.  A total of 284,000 families, half of them engaged in
agriculture, live in the five districts which comprise the Jingdezhen
project area. The per capita income figure for Jingdezhen municipality as a
whole was Y420 in 1987, close to the Jiangxi average of Y429. However,
incomes in the tea-producing counties are considerably lower. An income
survey of 187 tea households in the project area showed an average per
capita income of only Y370. The average farm size in the Jingdezhen area is
0.2 ha with most of the sown area (68%) devoted to production of grain,
primarily rice. Total grain output in 1987 was 435,000 t or 349 kg/capita,
considerably lower than the rest of the province. Though tea plantations
at present occupy only about 10% (6,600 ha) of all land under cultivation
in Jingdezhen, the area's high altitude and humid climate provide ideal
conditions for producing a high quality tea (variously known as Qihong,



- 10 -                                                    I
Gongfu, or Congou) noted for centuries as a Jingdezhen specialty product
(see para 6.8). Yields in the best areas reach as high as 1.5 t/ha
(refined); however, in most of the tea gardens, yields average only .36
t/ha due to inadequate plant renewal and poor management, particularly
insufficient weeding and pruning, poor harvesting methods, and limited
investment in nutrients. Wood prodtcts, mainly timber and rosin, are an
important part of Jingdezhen's economy, accounting for 8% of GVAO in 1987.
Some 29,400 ha have been afforested since 1983.
2.8     Jitai Basin. The average family landholding in the Jitai project
counties is 0.5 ha, 90% of it irrigated. The area produces large
quantities of grain, mainly rice; total 1987 output amounted to 1.5 million
tons or 490 kg/capita. As in the Poyang area, in Jitai the availability of
locally produced rice and rice products has given a boost to pig
production. The 1987 year-end pig inventory was 890,000 head and pork
output 60,400 t. At the same time--again like Poyang--the area must depend
for its formula feed needs on feed grains and protein meals imported from
other provinces. The climate and soils in the Jitai area offer
considerable potential for expansion of tree plantings, particularly of the
high-yield, fast-growing slash pine. Output of timber and rosin presently
accounts for 8% of GVAO. Farm incomes in the Jitai counties are generally
below average for the province. Per capita income figures for the three
most populous counties, Jian, Suichuan, and Taihe, were Y430, Y358, and
Y387 respectively in 1987.
E. Power and TransRort
2.9     The provincial power grid serves the project areas and virtually
all towns and most villages have access to electric power. As in the rest
of China, the demand for power in Jiangxi exceeds supply. In 1987, total
Jiangxi consumption was 10 billion kWh, up about 10% over the previous year.
2.10     The transportation network in Jiangxi consists of some 1,500 km of
railways, 4,900 km of navigable inland waterways and 31,800 km of roads.
There is also limited commercial air service out of the cities of Nanchang
and Jian. Road network density in Jiangxi is slightly higher than the
national average with major highways radiating out from Nanchang and
linking the province with the neighboring provinces of Hunan, Zhejiang,
Guangdong, Hubei and Anhui. However, the overall condition of the road
network is poor. Less than 12% of Jiangxi's roads have asphalt or concrete
surfacing and about 50% are dirt roads with limited utility during the
rainy season. China's main north-south rail line cuts through the
Jingdezhen project area; a north-south trunk line running between Nanchang
and the Yangtze port city of Jiujiang is close to the Poyang area sites.
Transport of coal, construction material, grain and fertilizer demand
approximately 70% of Jiangxi's total rail freight capacity.
2.11 Project products will be transported by road, rail, and waterways,
but the bulk of tonnage will be moved by truck along roads of varying
quality which extend throughout the project areas. Road freight traffic in
Jiangxi has grown at an annual rate of 15 to 2" percent which results in
doubling every four to five years. Ninety percent of the truck fleet in
the province consists of medium to large vehicles with capacities of
greater than four tons; in 1988, this amounted to approximately 68,000
trucks. Over the last few years Jiangxi has lagged behind most other



- 11 -
provinces in per capita investments in upgrading the road network. The
Jiangxi Provincial Highway Project (Credit 1984-CHA), recently approved for
Bank financing, would provide urgently needed capacity in the heavily
travelled corridor between the provincial capital, Nanchang, and the
important Yangtze River port of Jiujiang. The ton-km of road freight
required by the project after full development is estimated to be less than
one percent of the present provincial road transport volume.
F. Research mnd Exte.ngion
2.12     Jiangxi has in place a well-established research and extersion
network which has functioned effectively in the past, but which is
increasingly constrained by lack of modern equipment and staff trained
in new technologieE.  The leading agricultural research organization is the
Provincial Academy of Agricultural Sciences, a locally-funded affiliate of
the MOA's Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences. The Provincial Academy
operates a network of prefectural institutes specializing in various
aspects of crop and livestock research--e.g., at the provincial level, a
Horticultural Research Insitute, Forage Experimental Station, and
Veterinary Research Institute.   A Red Soils Research Institute which has a
staff or 50 researchers and 120 laboratory technicians has been responsible
for basic research on red soils improvement and its facilities are being
strengthened under the Bank-financed Red Soils Project.
2.13     In forestry, Jiangxi has in place the standard research hierarchy:
a provincial institute which has ties to MFO's China Forestry Research
Institute, prefectural or municipal research units and, in each county, a
forestry station which organizes demonstration activities but is more
concerned with extension than research. The larger state forest farms
(SFFs)--notably Fengshushan--support demonstration/extension stations as
well. The main research focus in forestry is on (a) developing improved
nursery and planting techniques, (b) conducting trials on new species, and
(c) disease prevention. Fisheries research is directed by the Nanchang
Fisheries Research Institute which is financed by the Bureau of Aquatic
Products. A new operation with a staff of only 15-20 people, the Institute
is currently carrying out some experiments in fish nutrition, but its
primary work involves demonstration and extension rather than actual
research. Jingdezhen City has a Tea Research Institute under its
agriculture bureau staffed with 11 technicians. A limited number of
demonstration activities are being carried out on 10 ha of experimental
area, but the research program is generally weak due to lack of financing
for equipment and staff training.
2.14     Formal education in agriculture is the responsibility of such
institutions as the Jiangxi Agricultural University, the Yichun
Agricultural Polytechnic, and the Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Technical
School. In the area of non-formal training, the county agriculture bureaus
operate a number of technical training and advisory units, including an
agro-technical extension station which advises on farm management and
coordinates short-term training courses with units specializing in plant
protection, soil analysis, animal husbandry, and aquatic products.
Typically, the county agro-technical station has a staff of 15-20 people,
most of them graduates of specialized secondary schools and above. There
are on average 17 agricultural technicians per 10,000 farmers in the
project areas. Stations routinely conduct week or two-week long training



12
sessions which are available to all farmers during the off-season. In
Taihe County (agricultural population-396,000), for example, about 12,000
farmers are trained annually in courses held at county stations or
affiliated units in townships and villages. While in some provinces the
agro-technical extension stations have been set up as financially self-
supporting units, in Jiangxi, these stations provide free services to
farmers. Extension services in forestry are provided by a similar network
of units under the forestry bureau. Forestry technicians total about 3,000
or one per 400 ha of plantation area. Tea extension work in Jingdezhen is
provided by 160 technicians operating city, county, and township stations.
G. Livestock SUpRort Services
2.15     Jiangxi Province was one of four sites selected for special study
in the Bank's 1986 survey of China's livestock sector. Since the final
report, China: Th& Livestock Sector (Report No. 6589-CHA), was issued in
early 1987, a number of the problems raised have been addressed, both in
Jiangxi and nationally; namely, farmers are now paid a price premium for
lean meat pigs, minimum standards for energy and protein content have been
applied to formula feeds, and disease reporting has become mandatory.
Other changes--e.g., in scale of production, farm management, and hygienic
standards in agro-processing--are under way and would be furthered through
the proposed project.
2.16     Veterinary stations e-ist in most counties, townships, and
villages.  Staff are for the most part technical middle school graduates
whose numbers are adequate but whose knowledge of animal nutrition and
breeding is often weak. The county Agriculture and Animal Husbandry
Bureaus offer a regular disease prevention program for poultry (Newcastle's
disease, Marek's disease, cholera, bronchitis, parasites) and pigs
(cholera, Alljesky's disease, foot and mouth disease, and parasites).
Vaccination of both adult and young animals is a regular part of disease
prevention. Farmers are encouraged to have annual blood tests for their
pigs through the county laboratories. Tissue samples are also submitted
from abattoirs. Disease reporting from the local veterinary stations up to
the province level is now routine. Data for Jiangxi for 1983-87 show
mortality rates for pigs of 2-2.5% and for poultry of 8-12%, which are
within the normal range for pig and poultry populations.
2.17     An estimated 85% of Jiangxi's pigs are produced under backyard
systems in which farmers raise only 1-2 pigs; pig raising specialized
households (SHs) account for another 10%, and state farms for about 5%.
The backyard producers rely primarily on food waste, green feeds, and crop
byproducts in fattening their pigs. In Jiangxi, China's largest per capita
rice producer, these scavenger pigs may also count on being fed locally
produced rice and rice products. An estimated 34% of livestock feed in
Jiangxi comes from rice bran which has about 90% of the energy value and
130% of the protein value of corn. In the last few yearL, particularly in
response to increased demand for lean meat pigs, there has been a
perceptible shift from backyard production to the more efficient, larger-
scale SH and state farm systems which must rely un purchased feeds. Feed
mill output has correspondingly increased, from 870,000 to 1 million tons,
for example, between 1986-87. Increased milling has put pressure on
available supplies of corn, wheat, protein meals, and other ingredients of
the formula or concentrate feed product. Analysis of raw material sources



- 13 -
for J'angxi shows that in 1987 about half of the required corn, soybeans,
and wheat were procured from outside, mostly from surplus-producing
provinces in the north and northeast. As long as Jiangxi is willing to pay
market or near-market prices for these imported feedstuffs, it is expected
that supplies will be assured even in the face of transport shortages and
other constraints to interprovincial trade that exist in China at present.
Projections for raw material supplies are shown in Annex 1, Tables 4-6.
2.18     Feed industry managemnt is one of the key responsibilities
of the Jiangxi Provincial Grain Bureau (others are grain and oilseed
procurement, processing, and distribution). The Grain Bureau works with
the Provincial Planning Comission on projections for feed requirements and
arrangements for purchase of essential feedstuffs from outside the
province. Under the Grain Bureau, the Jiangxi Feed Company has been
organized as an independent accounting unit to supply feed grains to
farmers and mills, and to manufacture and distribute compound feedstuffs.
The Feed Company manages most feed mills at levels above the county and
provides technical guidance to the county-owned mills. A Feed Inspection
Station under the Grain Bureau is responsible for monitoring feed quality.
A Feed Association, under the Provincial Planning Commission, is
responsible for approving applications to establish township mills and
advises the provincial government on feed quality and supplies. Quality
standards for concentrate, formula and protein supplement feeds as set by
the Grain Bureau are somewhat lower than those used in developed countries,
but appropriately accord with current local conditions (Annex 1, Table 7).
H. Credit
2.19     The Jiangxi branch of the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) began
operations in 1979 and has at present an extensive network of prefectural
central offices (11), county sub-branches (100), township offices (1,520),
and savings offices (460). Associated with ABC are some 1,870 Rural Credit
Cooperatives. About 80% of ABC's total staff of 15,000 are employed in
county sub-branches and savings offices, the main operational units of the
ABC. Its financial resources come from deposits, borrowings from the
Central Bank and equity, which at the end of 1987, amounted to Y3.6
billion, Y2.2 billion and Y700 million, respectively. Although loan
disbursements have expanded rapidly in recent years, ABC's dependence on
the Central Bank for most of its longer term resources has limited its
ability to lend for slow-maturing investments such as tea planting or
afforestation. ABC has been able to operate profitably making consistently
good profits, which amounted to Y96 million in 1987, more than double the
level in 1984. However, expansion of operations is constrained by a
shortage of qualified staff experienced in loan management, particularly
financial evaluation and market analysis.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives and Relation to Sector
3.1     The main objective of the proposed project would be to assist the
Jiangxi Provincial Government to accelerate and diversify agricultural
development. The proposed project is intended to improve the productivity
and incomes of participating farmers, communities and local govenments
and move farm operations from a subsistence level to commercial
orientation. It also seeks to utilize lands which are unproductive or
unsuitable for grains and other crops and to take advantage of sunk costs
by making additional modest investments to improve productivity. It would
focus on three regions--the Jitai Basin, the Poyang area, and
Jingdezhen--with the aim of developing replicable technical and managerial
models and generating additional fiscal revenue which could be utilized
for subsequent development of other regions.
3.2     Various levels of government are addressing the issue of
underemployment which has arisen in rural areas since the communal system
of agriculture management was replaced by the production responsibility
system. Programs have been devised not only to develop rural industry but
also to promote specialized households (SHs, currently defined as
households which devote at least 60% of their time to a single farming
activity, market 80% of their farm output, and derive 50% of their income
from those activities). Though most of the project's production
activities would be carried out by SHs, the livestock and aquatic poultry
components, in particular, would provide greater opportunity for
individual households to receive financial rewards commensurate with the
success of their operations and to plan for expansion of their operations;
the main constraint to expansion of livestock production in the past has
been insufficient investment capital for larger herds/flocks and working
capital for feed and labor. The SHs in the project have generally been
selected for their demonstrated initiative and management capability and
would provide models for other farmers to emulate.
B. Proiect DescriDtion
3.3     The proposed project would support a livestock development program
featuring pigs and poultry on hilly land unsuitable for grain cultivation,
develop and intensify freshwater fish culture (in some cases, integrated
with livestock activities) in low-lying areas and in lakes and ponds,
rehabilitate low-yielding tea plantations, and establish new commercial
forest plantations. Agroprocessing facilities would be established or
improved to facilitate and process the additional livestock and
agriculture production, to provide formula feed for the project animals,
and to demonstrate the proper methods to organize, manage and finance
upgraded processing and handling facilities. The project has a short-term
credit element which would cover those initial investment costs which
could be recovered within one production cycle, e.g. day-old ducks and
geese, fish fingerlings, sows, feed, labor and other production costs.
These funds would then be available for recycling to other project
participants and altimately to expand the scope of production activities.
The geographical distribution of project activities is shown in Annex 1,
Table 9. The main features of the project are:



- 15 -
(a) Livestock - provision of breeding farms, on-farm facilities,
and initial working capital for some 12,900 SHs to produce
pigs, ducks, geese, and specialty chicken ;
(b) Aquaculture - construction and improvement of about 2,058 ha
of ponds, 1,279 ha of cages, enclosures and barriers,
establishment of 200 ha of pearl farming, and provision of
initial working capital for some 3,300 SHs;
(c) Forestry - establishment and maintenance of 6,705 ha of slash
pine for both pulpwood and resin production;
(d) Tea - rehabilitation of 4,bOO ha of old tea gardens; and
(e) Agroprocessing - establishment or improvement of feedmills
and facilities for processing pork, aquatic poultry, tea,
resin and raw materials for feedmills, and provision of
initial working capital; and
(f) Training and technical assistance - facilities and programs
for staff development and training to upgrade research,
extension and project management.
C. Detailed Features
Livestock
3.4     Pigs - Investments in the pig industry would promote increased
production of crossbred pigs which have a higher lean-to-fat ratio than
native breeds. The project would provide for the import of foreign breeds
for parent stock, expansion of three existing breeding farms (the
Provincial Pig Breeding Farm, the Shangrao Prefectural Pig Breeding farm,
and the Jian Prefecture Breeding Stock Farm), establishment of a
provincial production farm under the guidance of the Agricultural Bureau,
and setting up about 3,800 SHs with breeding sows, pig pens and initial
working capital. The production farm would serve to popularize advanced
pig raising technology, meanwhile producing annually about 9,000 market
pigs for Nanchang and export and about 1,000 breeding pigs for sale to
SHs.  SHs for this component would be selected from locales which have
hilly or mountainous waste lands (precluding large scale development of
grain crops) and are accessible to water, electricity and transport.
3.5     Two models have been proposed for the project: a 4 sow/60 pig
model and a 12 sow/180 pig model.  It is planned that about 3,500 Slls
would have the smaller model and about 300 SHs, already experienced in pig
production, the larger model. On-farm facilities would include sheds and
pens for sows and fattening pigs. In addition, the project would provide
initial working capital for one production cycle (six months) in order
that farmers would be assured of funds for purchase of sows, feed,
veterinary services and other expenses. Housing for the SHs would not be
provided under the project; the ability to borrow for housing would be one
of the criteria for selection. Farmers would be required to use
Artificial Insemination (AI) for breeding their sows, and veterinary and
AI stations would be established for each group of 30-50 farmers. In most
cases, the SHs would be provided with 0.3-1.0 ha of undeveloped hilly



- 16 -
land, the purpose of which would be two-fold: development of unutilized
land and provision of silage material, both as a supplement to and as
insurance against inadequacy of feed supplies.
3.6     Poultry - The project would provide for establishment or expansion
of 23 breeding farm/hatcheries (2 for egg ducks, 10 for local Ma ducks, 9
for large meat ducks and 2 for geese) and setting up 9,150 specialized
households (3,950 for duck raising and 5,200 for gee:e) with poultry sheds
and initial working capital for one production cycle. Technical services,
including veterinary facilities, would be strengthened in all
participating counties and state farms. Breeding farms would be equipped
with incubators, hatchers and emergency generating plants and would be
isolated as far as possible from other poultry flocks to minimize the
danger of infection. Four production models have been proposed for the
SHs: egg ducks - 1000 birds/500 day cycle; local Ma ducks - 1000
birds/120 day cycle; large meat ducks - 1000 birds/70 day cycle; geese -
200 birds/120 day cycle. The project takes advantage of the adaptability
of the local Ma duck to feed on paddy rice as well as formula feed and of
geese to feed on grass areas along channels and ponds, while introducing
and encouraging development of large meat ducks which have a higher meat
content and faster growth rate, but which are dependent on formula feed.
In addition, the blackbone chicken breeding farm at Taihe would be
expanded to supply parent stock for local farmers and finished chickens
for commercial use.
Aouaculture
3.7     This component has been designed to expand fisheries production by
constructing new ponds on waterlogged areas uiith no economic potential for
crops and increasing the unit output in existing ponds through simple
improvements in structure. The project would include construction of
1,167 ha of new ponds and improvement of 891 ha of existing low-yielding
ponds, development of 1,100 ha of barriers, 276 ha of pens and 30,700 m2
of cages, establishment of 200 ha of pearl farming -rea and provision of
initial working capital for some 3,300 households.
3.8     New ponds would be built in low-lying, waterlogged areas and
provided with dikes for river flood protection and pumping stations for
connection to drainage systems. The ponds are designted as modules of 1.2
ha, comprising 1.0 ha grow-out ponds and 0.2 ha nursery ponds. Separate
inlets and outlets would be built, and the feeder canal would be common to
two ponds. Ponds would be developed in aggregations ranging from 8 to 110
ha. Some 973 SHs would be involved, of which 638 would integrate fish
farming with pig rearing and 266 with duck raising; the remaining 69 would
produce only fish.
3.9     Pond improvement would take advantage of sunk costs and would be
carried out by deepening existing ponds--requiring about 3,000 m2/ha of
earthworks. Water supply, drainage and power would be provided where
necessary and livestock sheds would be included. Some 891 SHs would be
involved, of which 282 would integrate pond operations with pig rearing
and 268 with duck raising; the remaining 341 would produce only fish.



- 17 -
3.10    Fish barriers for extensive fish farming would be erected by
fencing off protected bays in lakes and stocking fingerlings to utilize
the natural productivity of the lake. The barriers would consist of 4 m
wide net (3 cm mesh size) held in place by bamboo poles. Intensive
farming would be carried out in 1 ha circular enclosures, likewise
constructed with net and bamboo poles. Cages would measure 4m x 7m x 2 m
and would be used for intensive monoculture of grass carp. Sinco
experience with fish barriers, pens and cages is still relatively limited,
the design of the technical packages (feed, cultivation, etc.) for
enclosures and cages will be modified as the project progresses.
3.11    Pearl farming would be expanded on 200 ha, adjacent to another
smaller freshwater pearl farm. The project would provide buildings and
rearing infrastructure on land, equipment, production tools, initial
rearing stock of implanted mussels and working capital. This activity
would take place on a state farm and salaried workers would be hired for
carrying out the operation.
Forestry
3.12    The project would establish 6,705 ha of new plantations of slash
pine with seedlings grown from imported superior quality seed; construct
facilities for state furest farm staff, and strengthen BFO research
capability. The project would provide seed, fertilizer, and labor to
establish and maintain 2,246 ha of slash pine plantations on the Sanfang
SFF in Jian County, another 2,246 ha on Taihe County's Tianmashan SFF, and
2,213 ha on the Fengshushan SFF in Jingdezhen Municipality. Selection
criteria for planting sites include a soil depth of over 50 cm, soil
gravel content of less than 20%, slopes under 30 degrees, and a minimum
contiguoun area of 50 ha. Seedlings would be grown in SFF nurseries.
Land preparation and planting would be caried out by hired labor, either
from the SFF or nearby villages, on a contract basis. Holes would be dug
six to eight months before planting to allow for weathering of the soil.
Seedlings, encased in plastic containers, would be planted from January to
March at a density of 1,650/ha (spacing of 2x3 m). The project would
supply some 7,200 t of chemical fertilizer (35% F and 65% Urea) for use at
the time of planting and for subsequent applications as required at
weeding and thinning. To protect against fire, the project would provide
279 km of firebreaks (consisting of a 15-20 m strip of fire resistant
trees) at a density of 1 km per 24 ha of plantation, and would construct
13 watchtowers and 5 forest service stations. The MFO plans to include
Jiangxi Province in the Forestry Sector project now under preparation
(para 1.12). To insure consistency of objectives and approach between the
two projects, an assurance was obtained at negotiations that the standards
and methods of afforestation of this project would be subject to
consultation with the Bank Group from time to time; it was confirmed that
the standards and methods applicable to the project's forestry component
would be the Standards for Fast-Growing, High-Yielding Forest Plantations,
developed by the Ministry of Forestry and modified for conditions in
Jiangxi.
3.13    Tne project would provide for rehabilitation of 4,807 ha of
seriously degraded and neglected tea gardens within the Jingdezhen area.



- 18 -
Tea production in the area has a number of comparative advantages,
including favorable climate and soils and a long tradition of cultivation
and processing of a specialty black tea. Under collective management
systems in the pre-reform period, tea gardens were poorly maintained
resulting in declining yields and low incomes for tea producers (para
2.7). The introduction of the production responsibility system has
stimulated interest in tea productio- again, and, at the same time, there
is a suitable technology for tea rehabilitation--mainly, severe pruning
and regular fertilizer application. The project would provide credit for
labor to cut back the tea bushes by pruning to  40 cm and for purchase
and application of organic manure and chemical fertilizers.
AgrODroroce  ing
3.14    The objective of this component would be to build, equip and
provide working capital to processing enterprises to provide inputs of
formula feed for project livestock and fish, handle the increased
production of raw materials from the project, demonstrate improved
processing techniques, and act as a pilot for future processing
investments in the province. The existing factories, many of which were
established in the 1950s and 1960s, are inadequate to cope with the
expanded production, technically outdated, and inefficient in design and
operation. The proposed facilities are described below:
(a)     Feedmills - The feed supply system provided by the project would
be based on a three-tier system for manufacture and distribution, as
recommended by the Bank's Livestock Sector Study. Two existing
large-scale modern mills in the province would deliver pre-mix feed/l to
the two project concentrate/2 mills, which would in turn supply the 50
formula feed/3 mills located in the counties and townships. At full
development, the annual formula feed requirement for project animals would
be about 310,'30 t (Annex 1, Table 8). To meet these requirements, the
project would include two large (20,000 t) concentrate feed mills and 50
formula feed mills--eight medium-sized (5,000 - 15,000 t) and 42 small
(500 - 2,000 t). Total project demand would be met by eventually
operating the mills for two shifts, by utilizing some spare capacity in
the concentrate mills for production of formula feed, and by using some of
the spare capacity in existing mills in the project area. With 270,000 t
capacity available from project mills through double shifts, the 40,000 t
balance could be met by existing mills. Since availability of raw
materials has occasionally been a constraint to full utilization of
capacity in the past (para 2.17), an assurance was obtained at
/1 premix feed - a mixture of micro-elements such as vitamins and trace
elements. Very small quantities of this material are mixed with other
ground raw material and delivered to the concentrate mills.
/2 concentrate - a mixture of premix feed (10% by weight) with protein
materials (90% by weight) such as fish meal, soybean cake, rape seed cake.
/3 formula feed - mixture of concentrate (in the proportions of 10% of
final product weight for pigs, 15% for poultry, and 39% for fish) with
"#energy" materials such as grains, corn, and soybean.



- 19 -
negotiations that the Jiangxi Provincial Government would ensure that
sufficient funds would be available for procurement of raw materials to
produce good quality feed for project livestock.
(b)     Fertilizer - establishment of an experimental facility to produce
fertilizer at the Jiangxi Provincial Chicken Breeding Farm. The farm,
which has 200,000 layers, 20,000 breeding hens, and an annual production
of 120,000 commercial chickens, has the problem of disposing of 10,000 t
of chicken manure each year. The new facility would provide for quick
drying, sterilization, and processing into 7,000 t of raw material
suitable for incorporation into coimercial feed for pigs and fish or use
as fertilizer. Experimental evidence has shown that chicken manure is
high in trace elements and can be used to fertilize some crops or, if
properly treated, incorporated into livestock feed; a similar factory has
been succissfully operated in Shanghai for three years. The project would
provide civil works and equipment for drying only; the existing on-site
feed mill would produce the livestock feed.
(c)     Bone meal - expansion of the Nanchang Canjiang Biochemistry Plant
which produces bone meal, bone fat, peptone, and glue. Bone meal
(tankage) is an important source of protein and can be subst4tuted in part
for imported fish meal in livestock feed. It would utilize bone waste
from slaughterhouses, estimated to be some 8,000 t annually.
(d)     Pork - expansion and improvement of an existing (30-year old)
slaughterhouse (United Mea. Processing Factory located on the outskirts of
Jian City) to increase capacity and improve hygienic conditions. The
project would include rebuilding the slaughterhouse, constructing a new
cutting/processing line, and installing a 20 t freezing room and 1,000 t
cold storage unit.  The facility would conform to standards and guidelines
issued by the Ministries of Commerce and Public Health and the Inspection
Bureau for Import and Export Commodities (under the State Council). These
standards relate to site selection, design and layout of buildings,
handling procedures for live animals and carcasses, and training and
hygiene of workers.
(e)     Duck processing Dlants - establishment of five new processing
plants and expansion of an existing plant to produce frozen duck, pressed
salted duck, preserved eggs, and eiderdown. The project would provide for
construction and equipping of the plants. Two large plants would be
constructed, one in Shangrao and the other in Nanchang, each with annual
production capacity of 3 million frozen ducks, 300,000 dried ducks, and 10
million preserved eggs. Two medium-sized plants would be constructed on
Henghu and Hengfeng State Farms for producing 2 million frozen ducks
each. A small factory would be established on Kangshang State Farm to
produce 550,000 frozen ducks, 50,000 pressed salted ducks and 3 million
preserved eggs. An existing facility, the Yilan Pressed Duck Plant in
Suichuan County, would be expanded for producticn of 150,000 pressed
salted ducks. Annual production of the six plants would be 580 t of
pressed salted duck, 9,406 t of frozen duck, 30 million preserved eggs,
and 120 t of processed feathers.



- 20 -
(f)     Down Rroduc   - expansion of the existing Suichuan Eiderdown
Processing Factory (Jitai project area) to take advantage of the abundance
of water fowl in the project area. The project would provide for
construction of additional buildings and equipment (industrial sewing
machines).  With each duck providing 0.1 kg of feathers (8% down and 92%
feathers) and each goose providing 0.2 kg (20% down and 80% feathers), the
project water poultry component alone would provide 1,600 t of feathers.
The eiderdown factory would clean the raw materials and manufacture quilts
and garment&;. The feather handling capacity would increase from 250 t to
350 t resulting in the expansion of output from 45,000 garments to 100,000
quilts and 200,000 down garments, with much of the production for
lucrative export markets. In addition to the Suichuan plant, there are
four other down processing plants in the project area which could handle
additional quantities of project-produced feathers.
(g)     I" - establishment of 47 new primary processing factories and
expansion of seven refining plants to produce Gongfu black tea. The
primary processing factories would each have an average capacity of 120
t/yr, which together with the existing capacity of 3,780 t/yr would be
sufficient to handle project production. Each plant would be equipped
with receiving, grading and storage areas, wilting troughs, rolling
equipment, fermenting area, drying equipment and final storage
facilities. The plants would be located within or close to the tea
rehabilitation areas so as to minimize transport costs of fresh tea.
Seven existing refining plants would be expanded and improved under the
project to handle the increase from the primary processing factories.
Equipment to be provided and installed would include drying, storing,
rolling and screening machinery, tea cutters, sieves, shakers, grading,
selecting and bagging/packing equipment. Since there are at present no
box making facilities in the project area, the project would also provide
for construction and equipping of a carton making plant with an annual
production of 1.2 million tea cartons.
(h)     Resin - for processing resin into gum rosin and turpentine, a
factory would be established in Jian County. The technology used is
simple, involving two basic operations: cleaning to filter out impurities
and steam distillation in which steam is used both to heat the resin and
to facilitate fractionation by co-distilling with the turpentine vapors.
The approximate composition of crude resin is 70-75% rosin, 15-20%
turpentine and 5-10% debris and water. Thus the project plant's
throughput of 4,080 t/yr crude resin is estimated to yield about 3,000 t
of rosin and 740 tons of turpentine derivatives each year. The project
would construct about 3,800 sq m of buildings including a boiler room,
testing laboratory, storage area, and packing room. The plant would be
equipped with dissolving and cleaning vessels, a filter, still, and
rectifying tower.  Raw materials would be provided initially by already
mature slash pine stands in the Jian area, ultimately from the project
slash pine planted at Sanfang SFF. Designs for the plant have been
prepared and tested by the China Forestry Institute's Research Division
for Chemical Industrial Uses of Forest Products.



- 21 -
Training and Technical Assistance
3.15    The project includes an extensive program of local and overseas
training to strengtnen research, extension and project management
capability in the project area and to provide specific skills training to
participating households (Annex 3). About 20,000 months of local training
would be provided. At the basic level, 12,400 months of training at the
county training centers would consist of 15 day courses in animal
husbandry, fisheries, farm management and other subjects applicable to
specialized households and village and township technical staff. At a
more advanced level, about 5,000 months of training at the prefectural
stations would consist of one month courses for mid-level technical staff
of the counties and State farms. In addition, 2,600 months of advanced
training at the provincial and prefectural stations would be given by
experts and scientists for mid- and primary-level technical personnel and
extension staff. An understanding was reached at negotiations that the
Project Office would encourage participation of farm women in project
activities and that at least 25 percent of the trainees in the training
programs for specialized households would be female. The project would
provide for teaching equipment and construction or expansion of training
centers in the participating prefectures, municipAlities, counties, and
state farms and at the Jingdezhen Tea Research Institute. New
construction would range from 500 m2 to 2000 m2 at each site and would
include class rooms, laboratories, offices, dormitories, and dining
halls. The county level facilities would be used for training farmers and
specialized households; prefectural level facilities would serve primary
and mid-level technicians attached to county and township extension
stations.
3.16    A small number of technical staff would be given foreign language
training and then sent abroad for three- to six-month non-degree training
(about 57 months in total) in key subject areas. The project also
includes 32 months of study tours to examine modern techniques of
production, processing and distribution in advanced producing countries
and 15 months, spread over the five-year implementation period, of the
services of overseas consultants, who would be invited to hold workshops,
seminars, and training courses in new technologies and management
methods. Special emphasis would be given to training for staff of the
Agricultural Development Corporations (ADCs) in financial management and
market analysis in order to strengthen overall ADC performance in project
execution. Where possible, e.g. for fisheries, an effort would be made to
coordinate overseas training and study tours with technical assistance by
contracting with an international training center to receive students and
provide consultants to assist in setting up and carrying out research at
provincial facilities. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the
training component would be carried out in accordance with a schedule
acceptable to IDA. An understanding was reached that annually the Project
Office would furnish to IDA for its review and comment a list of the
overseas training and study tours proposed for the coming year, with the
purpose, destination, criteria for participant selection, and names and
titles of participants. Consultants would be selected under terms of
reference agreed at negotiations.



- 22 -
3.17    A contract research program would be initiated under the project
to investigate specific topics aimed at improving efficiency, quality and
marketability of project production. Contracts would be made with local
scientific research institutes to carry out studies on such subjects as
feed formulation for lean pigs and fish, vacuum packing methods for
pressed salted duck, crossbreeding of egg and meat ducks, series
formulation of feeds for different growth stages, color improvement of
duck egg yolk, increasing egg production of meat geese, tea seedling
selection and pest prevention, seedling selection for slash pine, and
quality improvement of pearl cultivation.
D. Status of Proiect Preparation
3.18    The project is at an advanced stage of preparation.  Basic data
have been collected for the livestock, fisheries, tea and forestry
components; site surveys and soil tests have been carried out at all sites
for tea and forestry. Sites for the aquaculture component have been
approved by the provincial Bureau of Aquatic Products on the basis of
surveys carried out by the county and prefecture engineers   Site surveys
and sol0. and water-quality tests have been carried out. Preliminary
designs have been completed and final design and constri.ction drawings are
being undertaken with assistance from Water Conserv,ancy Bureau engineers.
Detailed construction drawings for civil works and buildings and
engineering drawings for agroprocessing facilities have been prepared by
provincial design institutes; cechnical and financial revieus were carried
out by Bank staff during preparation and appraisal.
E. Implementation Schedule
3.19    The project would be implemented over a period of five years
beginning in late 1989 with completion in late 1994. The forestry, tea
and agroprocessing components would take the full five years, while the
livestock and aquaculture components are scheduled for completion in three
years. A detailed implementation schedule is given in Figure 1.
F. Cost Estimates
3.20    The total project cost in mid-1989 prices is estimated at
US$121.7 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$32.6 million or
27% of the total. Taxes and duties are not included in the project cost;
imported materials and equipment are exempt from duties. Cost estimates
are based on quantities derived from the designs described in para. 3.18
and unit prices currently prevailing in the project area. Prices for
materials and equipment are based on suppliers' quotations. Physical
contingencies of 10% have been included for civil works and processing
equipment and equal 7% of base costs.  Price escalatiorn for both foreign
and local costs when expressed in US dollars is based on annual
international price escalation rates for all goods and services of 5.3% in
1989-90 and 4.1% in 1991-94; and when expressed in yuan, is based on price
escalation rates of 15% in 1989, 10% in 1990-91, and 8% in 1992-94. Price
contingencies would amount to 8% of total costs expressed in US dollars.
Estimated costs are summarized in Table 3.1 and details are given in Annex
2.



23 -
Table 3.1 - PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local      For.  Total   Local      For.   Total  FE  Base
(Y million)           (US$ million)              Cost
Livestock
Pig production       22.95     6.49   29.44    6.19    1.75    7.94  22       8
Poultry production  24.82      2.95   27.77    6.69    0.80    7.49  11       7
Aauaculture          49.71     3.60   53.31   13.40    0.97   14.37   7    14
Forestry             13.94     4.28   18.22    3.76    1.15    4.91  23       5
Tea Improvement      34.31     9.68   43.99    9.25    2.61   11.86  22    11
Processing
Feedmrilis           14.85    29.12   43.97    4.01    7.85   11.86  66    1l
Park processing       1.75     0.47    2.22    0.47    0.13    0.60  21       1
Poultry processing  17.69    14.18   31.87    4.77    3.82    8.59  44        8
Tea processing       23.31     6.57   29.88    6.28    1.77    8.05  22       8
Rosin production      3.06     0.86    3.92    0.82    0.23    1.05  22       1
Research. Training,
and TA              14.86     3.83   18.69    4.01    1.03    5.04  20       5
Inc. Workin2 Cap.   61.57    22.77   84.34   16.60    6.14   22.74  27    22
Base Cost           282.82   104.P0  387.62   76.25   28.25  104.50  27   100
Phys. Contingency   20.54      6.61   27.15    5.54    1.78    7.32  24       7
Price Contingency   72.66    25.34   98.00    7.36    2.56    9.92  26        9
TOTAL PROJECT COST 376.02   136.75  512.77   89.15   32.59  121.74  27   116
G. Financing
3.21     Bank Group assistance would be an IDA Credit of SDR 46.2 million
(US$60 million equivalent) and would cover 49% of total project costs,
equivalent to 100% of foreign exchange costs and 30% of local costs. The
Government would onlend the proceeds of the loan to the Jiangxi provincial
government. The balance of US$61.7 million equivalent would be met from the
provincial government (US$9.0 million), municipal and prefectural
governments (US$10.4 million), enterprises and farmer contributions (US$17.6
million) and domestic loans (US$24.7 million).
H. Procurement
3.22     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.2.  Works vorth
about US$51.4 million would be required for the project, consisting e' pond
development for fisheries (US$10.5 million), afforestation (US$4.0 Tiillion),
tea rehabilitation (US$7.1 million), site preparation for agroprocessing



- 24 -
facilities (US$1.2 million), and construction of buildings for on-farm
livestock shelters and work sheds (US$15.6 million), processing plants and
feedmills (US$11.4 million), and training centers (US$1.6 million).
Except for the site preparation work for processing facilities and
infrastructure, which would be contracted to local construction teams
through contracts awarded following LCB, much of the civil works would be
carried out by farmers (for the livestock and tea rehabilitation
components) and village labor (forestry component). About US$17.1 million
of civil works and buildings (33% of total works) would be contracted
through LCB, using procedures accceptable to the Bank, and about US$34.3
million (67% of total works) would be carried out by farmers and village
labor. The civil works and buildings proposed for LCB are scattered over
a wide geographic area, phased over a five-year period, and would be too
small to attract foreign contractors.
3.23     Goods worth about US$50.4 million would be required for the
project. Whenever possible, machinery and equipvment will be grouped into
contracts valued at US$200,000 or more and procured through ICB according
to Bank Guidelines.  This will include the main agroprocessing machinery
(US$12.3 million), construction materials (US$9.2 million), vehicles
(US$2.3 million), tea packaging materials (US$1.0 million), and fertilizer
(US$7.2 million) worth a total of US$32.0 million (64% of the total value
of goods). Oualified domestic manufacturers would receive a preference of
15% of c.i.f. bid price or the applicable custom duties, whichever is
less, in the bid evaluation. Contracts for goods valued at less than
US$200,000 will be purchased through LCB using procedures acceptable to
IDA; this will include accessory equipment for feed mills, hatcheries,
breeding farms and processing plants, farm tools, small boats, and locally
available breeding stock, totalling US$11.2 million (22% of goods), for
which local manufacturing and supply capacity exists. Fish meal (US$7.0
million) and imported breeding stock (US$0.2 million), for which there are
a small number of suppliers, constitute the remaining 14% of goods and
would be procured through Limited International Bidding. Bids would be
d4rectly solicited from all known suppliers, both local and foreign. A
detailed list of goods is given in Annex 8 and a procurement schedule,
showing packaging and timing, is shown in Figures 4 and 5. Training and
technical assistance requiring foreign exchange (US$0.7 million) would be
procured in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants and financed by the Bank. The remaining training requirements
would be contracted for locally and financed by the Government. The
project includes US$16.1 million of incremental working capital for
specialized households to purchase formula feed, hire labor, and acquire
other inputs for one production cycle. This element of the project would
be handled as short-term credit.
3.24     Preparation of bid documents would be carried out by China
National Machinery Import and Export Corporation (CMIEC), which has
carried out this function for previous Bank group projects. Bid
invitation and evaluation and award recommendations would be the
responsibility of the procurement agency in consultation with the
provincial authorities. An understanding was reached at negotiations that
the agency will use a standard document acceptable to IDA for all ICB
procurement.



- 25 -
Table 3.2 - PROCUREHENT PROFILE
Procurement Method             Total
Project Element                ICB      LCB     Other   N.A.         Cost
- - - - - - - (US$ million) - - - - - - -
Works:
Civil Works                   0.0       4.1    '8.7      0.0        22.8
(0.0)    (1.1)   (6.0)   (0.0)        (7.1)
Buildings                      0.0     13.0    15.6      0.0        28.6
(0.0)    (4.1)   (5.0)   (0.0)        (9.1)
Subtotal Works                  0.0     17.1    34.3      0.0        51.4
(0.0)    (5.2)  (11.0)   (0.0)       (16.2)
Goods:
Equipment                    12.3       8.5      0.0     0.0        20.8
(11.0)    (6.4)   (0.0)   (0.0)       (17.4)
liaterials                   17X4       2.7      7.2     O.C        27.3
(15.3)    (2.0)   (6.3)   (0.0)       (23.6)
Vehicles                       2.3      0.0      0.0     0.0         2.3
(2.1)    (0.0)   (0.0)   (0.0)        (2.1)
Subtotal Goods                32.0      11.2      7.2     0.0        50.4
(28.4)    (8.4)   (6.3)   (0.0)       (43.1)
Training and Technical
Assistance:                  0.0      0.0      3.8     0.0         3.8
(0.0)    (0.0)   (0.7)   (0.0)        (0.7)
Incremental Working Capital    0.0        0.0      0.0    16.1        16.1
(0.0)    (0.0)   (0.0)   (0.0)        (0.0)
TOTAL                          32.0     28.3    45.3    16.1        121.7
(28.4)   (13.6)  (18.0)   (0.0)       (60.0)
Notes:
1.    Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA
Credit.  All amounts include contingencies.
2.    A prior Bank review would be required for all ICB packages (estimated
to be about 70% of total value of goods).
3.    Other includes farmer and village labor (Civil Works and Buildings),
LIB (Materials), and overseas training and study tours and
consultants (Training and Technical Assistance).



- 26 -
3.25     In order to facilitate startup of the project, the Government has
proposed to use up to SDR 2.3 million (US$3.0 million, 5% of the credit) for
retroactive financing of expenditures made after February 1, 1989, for setting
up about 100 specialized households in livestock activities and for carrying
out 100 ha of pond development, 50 ha of afforestation, and 50 ha of tea
establishment. These advance procurements are being done according to
procedures described above and are considered necessary in order not to lose
the momentum generated by the project planning and preparation.
I. Disbursements
3.26     Disbursements for vehicles, equipment and machinery for agroprocessing
and feedmill facilities, breeding stock, construction materials, laboratory
equipment, fishmeal, and fertilizer would be at 100% of the foreign exchange
costs of imported items or 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
items and 75% of local expenditures for othei items procured 1ocally.
Disbursements for overseas training and study tours and consultant services
would be 100% of total costs. Disbursements for pond development, tea
renovation, forest establishment, on-farm works, buildings and roads would be
at 32% of total expenditures.
3.27     Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure (SOFs)
in the case of LCB civil works contracts, overseas training, study tours,
contracts for goods and services costing less than $200,000 equivalent each,
and work carried out by farmers. SOEs would be supported by progress reports
showing physical quantities and unit prices (the latter would be updated
annually by the Project Offices and reviewed by IDA). Supporting documentation
would be retained by the Project Offices and be made available to Bank Group
supervision missions.
3.28     In order to provide for efficient disbursement, a special account
would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA with an initial
deposit of US$5.0 million which represents the average estimated four-month
expenditures. Applications for replenishment of the special account would be
submitted monthly, or whenever the special account is drawn down to 50% of its
initial deposit, whichever comes first.
3.29     The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994 and the
closing date would be December 31, 1994. The disbursement experience in China
has been very favorable and better than Bank-wide and regional averages. The
project disbursement profile is in line with that for specific investment loans
in China.
J. Accounts and Audits
3.30     Records of expenditures on civil works, equipment and materials, and
land development would be maintained by the Project Offices (PO) in the
participating counties and prefectures. These records would be forwarded to
the provincial PO which would prepare consolidated accounts including their own
records of expenditures on civil works and agroprocessing equipment. The



- 27 -
provincial PO would, in turn, compile a complete report on project expenditures
for submission to IDA. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
provincial PO would maintain the consolidated accounts for auditing annually by
the State Audit Agency and that the audited accounts would be submitted to IDA
within six months of the close of each financial year. The audited accounts
would include details of withdrawals from the Credit account made on the basis
of SOEs and the auditors' opinion as to whether such withdrawals were against
expenditures eligible for reimbursement by IDA.
K. Environmental Impact
3.31     Since Poyang Lake is the largest freshwater lake in China, receiving
the discharge of all five major rivers in Jiangxi, the environmental aspects of
all project components have been reviewed with particular concern for their
impact, not only on the immediate surroundings, but also on the lake. The
Poyang Lake Management Bureau, with assistance from the World Wildlife Fund and
the Asian Wetlands Bureau, is preparing a Poyang Lake Management Plan involving
a review of potential environmental impacts from lake-area development
activities and recommendations on measures to inaure compliance with national
environmental standards. Officials from the Poyang Lake Management Bureau and
Poyang Lake Migratory Bird Reserve do not believe the livestock and aquaculture
activities would unduly threaten migrant bird populations. The provincial
Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB) would review the Poyang Lake Management
Plan relative to possible adverse effects of project activities on water
quality and the increased risk of disease transmission to migrating birds,
particularly those considered rare and endangered. On the basis of its review,
EPB would develop environmental design specifications and monitoring
arrangements for project activities (particularly the agroprocessing plants) to
ensure compliance with national and provincial environmental standards; an
understanding to this effect was reached at negotations. The provincial
government's preliminary plans for measuring environmental effects of project
activities w.<re reviewed at negotiations and found satisfactory. An
understanding was reached that the provincial government would submit to IDA a
copy of the Poyang Lake Management Plan, when completed. An assurance was
obtained that project activities woul_ be carried out in conformance with
environmental control standards acceptable to IDA.
3.32     The following pesticides have been proposed for financing under the
project: Decis 2.5% (France) and Meothrin (Japan), both of which are
considered acceptable for Bank Group funding. An understanding was reached at
negotiations that the local training component for project participants in the
tea and forestry components would include a program specifically designed to
educate farmers in pesticide use and proper methods of application, i.e.
techniques, appropriate clothing, and equhiment.
3.33     The afforestation schemes are expected to bring environmental benefits
in the form of soil and water conservation. The tea component wculd also help
to stem erosion on hills and sloping lands. In addition, the packaging factory
would manufacture corrugated boxes to be used instead of the traditional
plywood tea chests and thus save felling of timber for that purpose.



- 28 -
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organiztion
4.1     The Government of Jiangxi Province would be responsible for the
overall implementation of the project. The management structure would
replicate that developed for the Red Soils Project (para 1.21): Project
Coordinating Coimittees (PCCs) at the provincial, prefectural/ municipal,
county, and state faro levels would be responsible for policy, planning,
and int,-r-agency coordination; Project Offices (POs), reporting directly to
the PCCs, would handle the day-to-day aspects of programuing and budgeting;
and provincial, prefectural, county, and state farm Agricultural
Development Corporations (ADCs) would directly manage the project's
investments in commercial production. The organization for project
implementation is shown in Figure 2.
B. Eaoiect Coordinating Committees and Prolect Offices
4.2     Th1e province has set up a PCC chaired by a vice governor and
staffed with senior officials from the Jiangxi Planling Commission,
the Bureau of Agriculture, ABC, the Price Bureau, the Jiujiang Customs
Bureau, EPB. the Women's FederaLion, and other provincial level technical
and financial agencies whose responsibilities bear on specific aspects of
the project.   The PCC would monitor overall project progress, coordinate
the roles of the various agencies represented in the project, and resolve
any procedural or legal issues that might arise related to contracts,
materials procurement, funding arrangements, and land use. Attached to the
PCC at each level is a Provincial Technical Committee made up of
specialists from government, the universities and research institutions
hired on a consultancy basis to advise on project design and implc.mentation
as requested by the POs or ADCs.
4.3    Acting as secretariat to the PCC, a Provincial PO has been
established staffed by a Project Director and about fifteen full-time
professionals, ir,cluding agronomists, fisheries and livestock specialists,
a forester, accountants, and economists drawn from provincial government
agencies. The PO would obtain PCC approvals for the annual work program
and budget, coordinate materials allocation, approve disbursement of IDA
and government funds by the provincial Bureau of Finance (BOF) to ADC and
local govenrment accounts, and monitor project execution and repayment of
funds by executing agencies. The PO would also compile data for progress
reports submitted to the PCC and to the Bank Group, and be the liaison
point with the Bank. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the
province would maintain its PO with staffing, functions, and
responsibilities acceptable to IDA.
4.4   A PCC-PO structure similar in function to that set up at the
provincial level would be established in each prefecture/ municipality,
county, and state farm participating in the project. Prefectural/municipal-
level POs would establish a management information system to monitor
physical and financial progress of the project, organize counterpart funds,
set up a system of inspection and approval of completed project activities,
and approve disbursement of funds by the prefectural/municipal BOFs both to



- 29 -
the ADCs within their jurisdiction and to the county BOFs. The county and
state farm POs would be responsible for site selection, development
planning, financial analysis, and coordination of the participating
townships and villages. They would prepare preliminary site surveys and
designs, approve construction contracts, and annual budgets. They would
also, with the assistance of the prefectural/municipal PO, supervise
construction progress and approve disbursements to and coordinate loan
collection from county and township farms and enterprises. Each of the
local level POs would be staffed with about ten qualified livestock and
fisheries specialists, agronomists, engineers, accountants, and economists.
C. Agricultural Develop2mnt CorRorations
4.5     The ADC concept as developed by the Red Soils Project was to create
a financially autonomous business entity, with technical expertise drawn
from government line agencies, to manage project investments in commercial
production. This represented a departure from past practice which was to
designate existing technical bureaus as implementing agencies; it was in
line with current efforts on the part of the government to shift from
budgetary to loan financing of enterprise development thereby divesting
itself of the role of sole financial guarantor for the commercial sector.
In 1985, the Jiangxi Provincial Government established the Jiangxi
Agricultural Development Corporation (JADC) as a state-owned enterprise
with a capital of Y30 million responsible for implementing the Red Soils
Project. The JADC, staffed for the most part by former personnel of the
Bureau of Agriculture, has a mandate for a range of development activities
including implementation of the Red Soils and similar projects,
introduction of foreign capital and technology through joint ventures and
other forms of collaboration, marketing of inputs and products, and
provision of technical assistance to farmers. Consistent with regulations
approved by the State Council, JADC has a charter confirming its status as
a Legal entity and outlining the scope of authorized activities, sources
and amount of capital, and borrowing powers. The charter describes the
management structure, including provision for a board of directors and
professional managers, and defines the relationship among the board,
management, and employees. This charter was reviewed and endorsed by IDA
during project appraisal.
4.6     The JADC has a staff of 50 and is divided into four
departments: Administration, Technical Service, Trade, and Credit. As in
the case of the Red Soils Project, JADC would implement activities under
the proposed project through muni-ipal, county, and state farm ADCs
established as independent financial entities with equity provided by local
governments. JADC's role vis a vie the ADC network would be to supply
progress reports to the provincial PO and TDA. arrange for ICB and local
procurement, furnish market information on domestic trade and exports, and
organize research, training, and consulting services. JADC's performance
in carrying out these functions under the Red Soils Project has been
satisfactory; the most recent supervision report states that the project is
expected to be completed a year ahead of schedule and that progress in land
development has been excellent. To improve JADC's financial management and
marketing capabilities, the proposed project includes training and
consulting services (para 3.16).
4.7    All project ADCs--8 prefectural/municipal and 32 county-level



- 30 -
(including state farms)--would be registered and licensed to operate by the
local office of the State Administration of Industry and Commerce (SAIC).
In the case of the prefectural ADCs, this registration and licensing process
has already been completed. An understanding was reached at negotiations
that county-level ADCs would not receive project funds uzLcil duly licensed
by the SAIC. The ADCs at all levels would rely or. revenue earning
activities and service fees for recovery of development costs including
servicing of foreign exchange borrowings; since the ADCs would bear the
financial risk of subloans extended for project activities at their
respective levels, they would maintain a reserve for bad debts.  Operating
guidelines, established for the Red Soils Project to supplement the more
general provisions in the business charters, were reviewed during
negotiations and appropriately amended relative to their application to the
proposed pro4ect (Annex 5).   An understanding was reached that ADCs would
retain sufficient spreads to cover their transaction costs, including a
reasonable provision for bad debts.
D. Financial Management
Terms and Cgodito2ns
4.8     In line with current budgetary practice, proceeds of the Credit
applied to the foreign exchange part.s of the project would be onlent by the
Ministry of F'inance (MOF) to the Jiangxi Provincial Government at an
interest rate of 5.3% with repayment over 15 years including a five year
grace period. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Jiangxi
Government. A portion of the IDA funds would be used directly by Jiangxi
to cover the costs of technical assistance and training. The remaining
funds would be issued by the Jiangxi BOF in the form of subloans to JADC
and lower level BOFs which, in turn, would onlend to local ADCs (Fig. 3).
Contracts between the ADCs and the BOFs acting in the name of the local
governments would outline terms of lending and repayment obligations.
4.9     The ultimate borrowers, mostly specialized households and agro-
processing plants, would pay interest at no less than prevailing ABC rates.
These rates were positive in real terms through mid-1988, at which point
the inflation rate began to rise to unprecedented levels, nearing 20%.
This caused the entire structure of interest rates to become negative in
real terms, and resulted in a substantial drawdown in savings deposits
throughout the banking system. The Government responded with a program of
budget cuts and credit rationing to begin the process of reducing the
inflation rate. On September 1, 1988, the entire structure of interest
rates on loans for industrial investments was raised from 7.91%-10.8% to
9%-16.2%. The structure for agricultural loans (i.e., ABC rates) was
almost immediately thereafter raised to similar levels; e.g., 9% for less
than one-year terms, 9.9% for one to three years, 10.8% for three to five
years, and 13.32% tor over five years. On February 1, 1989, ABC rates were
again raised, this time to a range of 11.34%-19.26%. Given the Government's
strong commitment to reducing inflation and the substantial increases in
interest rate structures observed to date, it is expected that ABC rates
for longer term loans will generally remain positive, and, hence, will
continue to serve as a good guide to lending rate policy for local
financial arrangements over the life of this and other agricultural
development projects. Thus an assurance was obtained during



- 31 -
negotiations that funds for the proposed project would be onlent to
borrowers and sub-borrowers at interest rates no less than ABC charges on
subloans for similar purposes with similar maturities, such rates to be
reviewed with IDA from time to time in light of the cost of funds to the
ADCs and their financial viability, as wkll as changes in ABC's interest
rates.
Cs  RecoverX
4.10     Specialized households and enterprises would repay loans from ADCs
on schedules determined by analysis of projected cash flows for each
venture.   At the discretion of the local BOFs and ADCs, local branches of
ABC may handle both disbursement and collection of loan funds on behalf of
ADCs for a service charge to be agreed between the parties; the current
charge under the Red Soils Project is 0.3%. ADCs would repay the
municipalities and province, which would in turn repay MOF for use of the
IDA funds according to the prescribed schedules. During negotiations, an
assurance was obtained that the "float",i,e. any net cash accruals by the
ADCs due to differences in timing between subloan receipts and repayments
to the Government, would be used by the ADCs only for financing development
activities similar to those undertaken under the project. Under present
regulations for state enterprises, the ADCs would pay taxes at normal
enterprise rates, but would otherwise be allowed to retain net profits.
E. Execution o  jic!: Works
4.11       Within the framework of review and approvals by the PCCs and POs
at the various levels, the county and state farm ADCs would be responsible
for executing the project's livestock breeding, pond development, tea
rehabilitation, and afforestation components, including support facilities.
Infrastructure improvements, including power supply and roads, would be the
responsibility of line agencies of the local governments. Construction of
larger civil works including processing facilities, AI stations, extension
stations, and breeding farms would, in large part, be contracted to local
construction units using local competitive bidding procedures. County
governments would organize local farm labor to carry out earthworks for
ponds, canals and drains, and erection of small, common structures.   The
farmers themselves would build on-farm facilities such as sheds and pens,
using designs and materials provided by the local bureaus of animal
husbandry and aquatic products. Most land development and rehabilitation
activities associated with tea production would be carried out by farmers
using their own family labor or hired labor paid the prevailing wage. The
state forest farms would hire village labor to supplement their own labor
force in tree planting and maintenance activities. JADC would directly
implement the overseas training and technical assistance program,
coordinate design studies for the agro-processing component, and contract
with provincial engineering firms for the construction of agroprocessing
facilities. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that JADC would
submit to IDA an annual budget and work program for new construction for
review by November 1 each year for the following year.
F. Management of Production
4.12     While the POs would play a central role during the project
implementation period, particularly on the planning and budgeting side,



- 32 -
after completion of construction most PO staff would return to their
original agencies and only small units would be maintained to monitor
repayment from the ADCs to the various financial bureaus. The ADCs,
established as permanent cor zial organizations, would be responsible for
overseeing production activities throughout the life of the project, both
from a financial and a technical standpoint. The project would provide
working capital for each participating farm household or enterprise to
cover the first production cycle. An understanding was obtained at
negotiations that the Jiangxi Provincial Government would make available
funds to meet reasonable working capital needs of project participants in
subsequent years. Farm inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides, would be
allocated by the local Supply and Marketing Cooperatives (SMCs). Seedlings
would be provided by nurseries run by the forestry bureaus, fry and
fingerlings by commercial hatcheries, and breeding stock by state farms.
4.13     Production activities in livestock, aquaculture, and tea would be
carried out by individual farmers or specialized households on land
contracted through long-term leases from (a) township or village economic
committees which manage the land in the name of the collective or (b) state
farms, in which case the original landowner is the province itself. Project
forestry activities would be carried out by salaried workers who are either
part of the state forest farm or hired from nearby villages.   The
livestock, aquaculture, and cea farmers participating in the project would
be selected by local ADCs from among applicants who possess requisite
experience and managerial skills, long-term local farm residence, and
resources to contribute about 30% of on-farm development costs in the form
of cash, physical assets or labor. Loan contracts between ADCs and
households would specify the terms and conditions of farm development and
management, repayment of development costs, and charges for use of service
facilities. In forestry, loan contracts would be made between the county
ADC and the participating SFF.
4.14     Project agroprocessing facilities, most of which are county or
municipally-owned, would be operated as commercial activities with their
output priced at competitive market levels. Legally, they would have the
status of state-owned enterprises with charters registered with the State
Administration for Industry and Commerce (SAIC) defining the scope of their
activities, sources anL -mount of capital, borrowing powers and management
structure. Raw materials for livestock and tea processing would be bought
directly by the plants from the specialized households and individual
farmers. Project output of logs and crude resin would be sold by the SFFs
either through the county forestry company acting as agent or directly to
wood-procuring agencies such as mines and construction companies. Feed
mills would import some raw materials from other provinces and procure
others locally (para 2.17).
G. Monitoring. Evaluation and Reporting
4.15     The POs in conjunction with the ADCs would monitor project
progress and evaluate the project's economic benefits and overall impact.
Each local ADC (prefectural/municipal and county) would compile and submit
to its counterpart PO information on the following: progress in
establishment of production activities, yields and production levels,
marketing channels and prices, training, contract -erms and conditions, and
incomes of project beneficiaries. An assurance was obtained at



- 33
negotiations that ADCs would maintain a sample survey of farm households
for purposes of monitorLng farm budgets and family incomes. The local POs
would subuit this information to the provincial PO which would use lt in
preparing a semi-annual progress report for submission to the PCC and to
the Bank Group. Reporting on financial progress would include information
on actual and cumulative expenditures using a format similar to the
detailed cost estimates (Arnex 2). Monitoring and evaluation methodology
would be one of the main topics of discussion at a project launch workshop
to be held for the benefit of PO und ADC staff at the outset of project
implementation. Additional topics to be covered at the workshop would be
procurement and disbursement procedures and project financial management.
4.16     Not later than six months following completion of Credit
disbursements, the provincial PO would prepare for submission to the Bank
Group a Project Completion Report (PCR) in which project results would be
compared with appraisal estimates. The PCR would describe changes in
production technology, changes in prices in real terms, changes in earnings
and incomes of project farmers, changes in permanent employment resulting
from the project, and related cost recovery issues. The economic and
financial rates of return would be recalculated on the basis of actual
costs and re-estimated benefits.
V. PRODUCTION
5.1     Annual incremental production of pigs under the project would
amount to some 272,000 lean meat pigs from SHs and farms and another 28,000
raised in association with aquaculture activities. Specialized households
raising aquatic poultry would produce annually some 8.9 million ducks, 3.1
million geese and 16,600 t of duck eggs; another 9,100 t of duck eggs woluld be
produced by farmers whose main activity would be fish farming. About
19,000 t of fish would be produced each year in new and improved ponds,
barriers, enclosures and cages. In addition, about 2 t of pearls would be
produced. Annual incremental production of refined tea would amount to
about 5,300 t. Over the 20 year life of the project, the forestry
component would produce some 59,000 m3 of pulpwood, 579,000 m3 of logs and
poles, and 88,000 t of resin. Production is shown in Table 5.1.
A. Livestock
5.2     Two breeding programs are planned for the project.  The first
features a three-way cross between the Guanchao, a local breed that is
hardy and fertile, but with a 40% lean meat content, and the imported



- 34-
Duroc and Landrace breeds to produce a pig with the hardiness and
fertility of the local breed and the meat quality and low feed consumption
of the imported breeds. The program starts with a cross between the local
Guanchao sow and a Landrace boar, then the first generation sow (Fl) is
bred with a Duroc boar; their progeny (F2), with 25% genetic material of
the local breed, would be commercial pigs with a 55% lean meat content.
The second program features pure strains of Landrace and Duroc, with the
resulting Fl progeny as the comercial pig. The second program has the
advantage of producing a pig which has a lower feed conversion ratio
(2.75-3.0:1  instead of 3.0-3.25:1) and a higher percentage of lean meat
(60% instead of 55%); however, the animal tends to be less hardy an4 very
sensitive to the quality of raw materials used in the feed.  The three-way
cross would be used on the project's three breeding farms anti the two-way
cross on the provincial production farm.
5.3      SHs would purchase sows of 70 kg just before the first estrus.
It is expected that each sow would farrow twice a year, with an average
litter size of 8.5. With a 10% mortality iate, it is conservatively
estimated that each sow would produce an average of 15 piglets per year to
weaning stage. With improvement management and breeding, it should be
possible to further increase this to 18-19 piglets/sow/year. The piglets
would be raised for about six months to market weight of 95-100 kg and
sold for slaughter. The following feed consumption has been estimated:
sows - 1,100 kg/yr, boars - 1,460 kg/yr, piglets before weaning - 10 kg,
and fattening pigs - 300 kg. About 25% of the sows would be replaced each
year. At full development in year 4, about 272,000 commercial pigs, with
lean meat proportions of 55-60%, wc'tid be produced.
Poultry
5.4      About 23 breeding farms would be established to provide day-old
ducklings and goslings to the SHs to raise for egg or meat production.
Each breeding farm would start with 4,400 layers. Assuming a 10%
mortality and rejection rate, the 4,000 survivors would each produce 160
eggs/yr. These eggs would be used as follows: 125 for hatching and 35
for sale (generally small eggs <55 gm produced during the early laying
period). For the 125 eggs, it is assumed that 100 would hatch. Estimated
formula feed requirements for the breeders is based on 75 gm/day during
the 120-day rearing period (9 kg) and 150 gm/day during the 360-day laying
period (54 kg).
5.5      At the household level, egg duck raising is based on a 120-day
rearing period and a 365-day laying period. Feed requirements are based
on the same assumptions as for the breeders (para 5.4). The local egg
duck is a very productive breed, producing about 250 eggs (average weight
68 gm) or a total of 17 kg. In order to provide a steady income fromsale
of eggs, the second (and subsequewt) batches of ducks would be started
before disposal of the first batch. Ma ducks are raised for 105 days,
reaching a weight of 1.75 kg. Ducklings are fed formula feed for three
weeks, then a mixture of 50% formula feed and 50% paddy for a total feed
consumption of 5.25 kg/duck. The local Ma ducks are used in many
traditional dishes in Jiangxi or can be processed into pressed, salted
duck. For the latter use, the processing plants further feed them for
three to four weeks. Even though the Ma duck is the most common, farmers



- 35 -
TABU  5.1 - IwcNETAL PROSUCTION
Scal ef activity      --l---dYield----                  -----------__- --relf-
Present   Fuure (he of  Plesmnt  Fture  Unit                 Unit Preset  Fuere    tnrnerml
s)
logs - Model 1 (12  oe)               S00                        160 pis/         pi                    54,000        ,
8 curltI       cull so"o
Pigs - Model 2 (4 seg )              8478 ON                      *0 P8 1S4        I                   20e0"    2060
1 cli/        eulI  -                8,47`     a*
Pigs - Production Farm                  1 FARM                 0000 o I,S/o o     rIg                    000        0,
1,000  ebr/t-    brr                      1,000      1,
Prefecturcl  reoedig Farm               2 FArm                 1,040 breeder/fm   breeders               2,000      2,
720 piglets/fm   piglot                 1,440      1,
Jian Breeding Form                      1 FARM                  1000 pigs/9t      pls                   1,000      1,
2800 brer/tm   breedre                   2,800      2,
180 pigle41/im   pigloe                  1,60O      1,.
Plg  w/Aqueaultur -Nie ponds        O68  SH                      80 pIgo/IH      pigs                  19,140      19,1__
(2 sows)                                                    0.5 culle/Ill     eVul see                 810        810
Pigs w/Aqusculture-Imp ponds          22 SH                       80 pige/3H      pigs                   6,460      6,400
(2 sews)                                                    0.5 eVlls/Il      cull coll                141        i41
Aquctic Poultry
Ma ducks                            1,970 SH                   8,000 ducks/SN     ducks              6,010,000  *,910,---
Fine-eost ducks                       9906 SH                   ,000 ducks/SH     ducks              2,906,000 2,866,
Egg ducks                             079 SH                   1,000 ducks/SH     9egs (kg)         16,648,000 16,648,
cull ducks           979,000    979,
Egg ducks/Aquaculturo-New ponds       266 SH                   1,000 ducks/SH     eg  (kg)           4,522,000 4,522,
cull ducks           266,000    206,
Egg ducks/Aquaculture-_mp ponds       268 SH                   1,000 ducks/SH     egg  (kg)          4,556,000 4,556,
cull ducks           268,000   268,
Geese                                6196 SH                     600 goese/SN     gmess              8,116,600  8,116,..
down (kg)            216,810    210,816
-lackbone Chicken
Comercial chickeno                      I FARM                40,000 chickens/fm  chickens              40,000     40,000
Day-old chicks                                               848,000 chicks/fm    day-old chicks       846,000    846,000
Aquaculture
N e poed                            1,167 ha                     7.5 tons/ha           ton               8,758       8,758
Improved ponds            066  7    1,069 ha           1.725    6.75 tons/ha           ton    1,160      7,216      6,0o6
Fish barriers                        1000 ha                    0.75 tons/ha           ton                  750       760
Fish enclosures                       276 ha                     7.6 tons/ha           ton               2,070      2,070
Fish coae                            8.07 ha                     150 tons/ha           ton                 461        461
Pearls                                200 ha                   0.011 tons/ha           ton                    2          2
Tea
Fresh leaf                 4,607    4,607 ha             1.5       6 t/he         t           7,211      26,642     21,682
Refined leaf                                                                      t           1,759       7,086      5,276
Forestry
Pulpwood- yr 10 thinning            6,706 ha                     6.9 Ms/he              .8               69,490     69,490
Poles A logo - yr 20 -felling       6,705 ha                    56.8 mI/ha              .3             578,900    676,900
Resin - yrc Sand 9                  6,706 ha                     1.1 t/he               kg                7,189      7,180
Resin - yro 14-20                   6,705 ha                    12.0 t/hr               kg              60,406      80,406
-----------------------------------------------------------_---__------------__--------------------------------------------



- 36 -
are beginning to start production of a larae meat duck based on
cross-breeds using imported Cherry Valley stock. The fine meat duck is
more sensitive to feed quality and would suffer from a grass and paddy
diet, should formula feed not be available. The ducks are raised for 70
days to a slaughter weight of 3 kg. Feed consumption is assumed to be
formula feed at the rate of 9 kg/duck during this period. Geese would be
raised using the present extensive system--exploiting grassy areas along
channels, ponds and marshes. Goslings are kept in runs and fed formula
feed for the first month. After this they are driven to grass and fed on
formula feed and paddy. Feed consumption is calculated to be 9 kg. At
120 days the geese reas.;n 3.5 kg and are sold for slaughter.
5.6      Some 9,150 SHs would be involved in aquatic poultry production.
The proposed models are based on households annually raising 1000 egg
ducks each year, three batches of 1000 Ma ducks or meat ducks, and three
batches of 200 geese. Annual project production at full development in
year 4 is expected to be 5.9 million Ma ducks, 3.0 million fine meat
ducks, 3.1 million geese and 26,500 t of duck eggs. In addition, some 1.0
million egg ducks would be sold for meat after the one-year egg production
period.
5.7      A hatchery and production farm would be established for black
bone chicken, a specialty item in the province used for medicine and wine
making. The breeding farm would have 6,000 females and 600 males for
production of 348,000 day-old chicks for local farmers and 40,000
commercial chickens for slaughter. Feed consumption is estimated to be 10
kg/bird during the rearing period and 30 kg/bird during egg production.
B. Aauaculture
5.8      Fish farming would be practiced using a polyculture of Chinese
carps, involving generally six species. These species, having different
feeding habits and occupying different or only partially overlapping
ecological niches, can utilize very efficiently the natural productivity
of the ponds. The species include: silver carp (Hyoo0hthalmichthys
molotrix, a phytoplankton feeder; bighead carp (Aristichthus nobilis), a
zooplankton feeder; the grass carp (Ctenonharvngodon idella) and the
Wuchang bream (Megalobrama amblyoce2hala), which consume higher plants and
artificial feeds, and the group of common and crucian carps (Cyprinus
cargio and Carasius sp.) which are bottom feeders and can also take
compounded feeds. Of these species, to which occasionally others can be
added, the silver and bighead carp are the ones benefitting more from pond
fertilization programs which enhance plankton biomass. However, they do
not take compounded feeds and as the production levels are raised, their
proportion in the stocked biomass decreases.
5.9      Fish culture management in new ponds would aim at producing 7.5
t/ha at full development in year 4 but would start at 3 t/ha in order to
set easier targets for specialized households. The initial stocking
proportion would be done with 50-gm wintered fingerlings (450 kg/ha)
stocked in both nursery and production ponds as soon as they are ready in
February/March. Fry would be bought in June and distributed again to the
two ponds (10 kg for the 1 ha pond and 0.8 kg for the 0.2 ha nursery
pond). The expected survival from 0.5 g fry to fingerling is 70%. At the
end of the first year, the ponds would be harvested, the market sized fish



- 37 -
sold, and fingerling and undersized fish transferred to the small pond.
The larger pond would be disinfected and treated, after which all fish
would be transferred to the larger pond for disinfection and treatment of
the nursery pond. For the second year, only fry would be purchased as
stocking material, again in both ponds; it has been shown that a
multi-size stocking structure allows a better use of the natural
productivity of the pond. To support fish growth, livestock manut'e
(mainly for the silver and bighead carp), fodder (for the grass carp and
Wuchang bream) and compound feeds would be used. For disease prevention,
in addition to pond disinfection, grass carp fingerlings are individually
vaccinated against reoviruses. On some farms, fish production would be
integrated with livestock raising to enhance plankton productivity and
reduce feed requirements. The management plan for improved ponds is
similar, except that yield at full development would be 6.75 t/ha instead
of 7.5 t/ha.
5.10     The fish barrier component would rely on fencing off protected
bays in lakes and stocking the enclosed area with fingerlings which
basically utilize the natural productivity of the lake. It is, therefore,
an extensive culture system. Fish production would start with 525 kg/ha
in the second year and reach full development yields of 750 kg/ha in year
five. Stocking composition would be 75% silver, bighead and grass carp,
to have a maximum utilization of the lake's natural. productivity, and 25%
common and crucian carp, which could also be fed compound feeds. Fish
enclosures would be intensively farmed with no livestock integration.
Production would be based predominantly on feed consuming species, with a
stocking structure of 10% silver and bighead carp, 40% grass carp and
Wuchang bream, and 50% common and crucian carp. Expected yields would be
9 t/ha at full development in year 4. Fish cage production would be based
on grass carp fed with compound feeds at a conversion rate of 2.5:1.
Yields are expected to increase from 11.2 kg/m2 in year 1 to 15 kg/m2 in
year 4.   The input/output ratio of fingerlings/market size fish is
estimated at 1:10.
5.11     Freshwater pearl production would use three species of freshwater
mussels currently available in the project area: Hyriopsis cumini,
Cristaria plicata and Anodonta woodiana. Farming would involve artificial
seed production, nursing to 10 cm size, and implantation of about 30
pieces of mantel of a donor mussel, after which the mussels are kept in
suspended nets in lake waters for three years. Stocking density would be
10,800 mussels/ha, of which two-thirds are implanted and one-third would
be used to provide mantle tissue. It takes about 240 mussels (plus 80
donors) to produce 1 kg of freshwater pearls. The household
responsibility system would not be applied to this production activity;
workers would be hired to take care of about 1 ha of water surface.
C. Forestry
5.12     Slash pine (P. elliottii) has been selected for afforestation of
the project areas on account of its suitability to climate and soils,
availability of good seed, its multipurpose production, proven technology,
and its quick growth. Seedlings, germinated in existing Forest Bureau
nurseries and raised to 30 cm, would be planted at a spacing of 2 x 3 m
(1,650 trees/ha with a 90% survival rate, final density would be 1500
trees/ha) during the first quarter of the year. Urea would be applied as



- 38 -
a top dressing in year 3. A circle around each tree would be weeded and
scarified once in years 1 and 4 and twice in years 2 and 3. Thinning out
of about 40% of the trees in year 10 would produce about 25 m3/ha of
pulpwood and final clearing in year 20 would produce about 225
m3/ha of logs and poles. Trees selected for thinning (about 450 trees/ha)
would be tapped in years 8 and 9 with average annual resin yields of 2
kg/tree or 900 kg/ha. Remaining trees would be tapped from year 14 - 20
with average annual yields of 3.5 kg/tree or 3,675 kg/ha.
D.  I"
5.13     The present low yield of tea in the project area is the result of
poor plant development, as evidenced by small spindly bushes, which has
been brought on by insufficient organic matter in the soil, la-k of
fertilizer, and inadequate management.  A two-year renovation program
under the project would involve, in the first year, pollarding (severe
pruning) of the main branch to + 40 cm, application of 3 t/ha organic
fertilizer in a 50 cm ditch at the plant base, and a top dressing of 1.5
t/ha of Urea and 0.75 t/ha of compound fertilizer. In the second year,
selective trimming and weeding would be carried out and compound
fertilizer at the rate of 0.75 t/ha applied.   The renovation process has
been shown to stimulate crown development and expand the plant to a
groundcovering situation. Generally, tea is planted at a spacing of 30 cm
between hills and 1.5 m between rows (about 200,000 plants/ha).
Harvesting of fresh leaf would take place from March through September
--about 16 times throughout the season, after which the residual leaves
are considered undesirable because they are tough and have a high tannin
content. Spring harvesting would begin with the picking of the first bud
and two adjacent leaves, which are the most tender leaves in the plant.
Because of the removal of the top leaf, the so-called "terminal dominance"
is removed and the auxillary bud growth is stimulated which induces the
secondary, tertiary, etc. bud growth from the top to the bottom of the
plant. Each harvest, therefore, includes only one bud and two adjacent
leaves. Yields of fresh leaf are expected to increase from the present
level of 1.5 t/ha to 6 t/ha in the sixth year after renovation.
VI. MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Market Prospects
Overview
6.1      Market prospects are excellent for the project's incremental
output of pigs, poultry, eggs, fish, tea, and timber. Domestic demand for
these commodities has risen markedly over the past decade in response to
growth in rural and urban incomes. Expected income gains of 6% annually
(in real terms) from 1988 to 1992 will result in continued rapid growth in
demand for livestock products and fish as consumers seek a more varied
diet, less dependent on direct consumption of cereals and tubers. MOA
projections for 1992 show China's annual consumption of meat (red meat and
poultry) increasing from the 1988 figure of 21.2 kg per capita to 22.9 kg,
eggs from 5.9 to 7.4 kg, and fish from 9.5 to 10.3 kg. Pork will continue
to dominate Chinese meat intake, accounting for over 80% of total
consumption. However, poultry meat is expected to increase its share from
the present 8% to 12% by 1992 or, in per capita terms, from 1.7 to 2.7 kg.



- 39 -
Annual tea consumption in China currently averages about 0.3 kg per capita,
far behind Hong Kong (1.7 kg), Japan (0.9) and Taiwan (0.6). China's
consumption is projected to increase to r 5 kg per capita by the year 2000.
Although most project production, including tea, would be consumed in
domestic markets, about 25% in Jiangxi itself, the export potential is
strong. China currently exports all products produced by the project,
except logs and pulpwood which are imported in large quantities. National
and Jiangxi trade figures for project output are given in Annex 6, Tables 1
and 2.
Trends in Productio and Trade
6.2      Xi=  and Fork- While small relative to total production (para.
1.6), China's exports of live pigs and pork are an important element in
China's overall trade picture, accounting for US$375 million in 1987 or
about 1% of total exports. Figures for January-June 1988 show volumes up
bv more than 10% over the first half of 1987. The bulk of pig and pork
exports go to markets in Hong Kong- in 1987 Hong Kong traders bought more
than 3 million .ive, lear meat pigs from China.
6.3     In Jiangxi, pig slaughter and inventories grew at a steady 5% p.a.
over the period 1981-87 to reach 1987 record highs of 10.7 million and 13.9
million head respectively. Lean meat pigs accounted for a higher-than-
national 33% of total inventories. Nearly 90% of total slaughtered pigs or
about 9.5 million were consumed in Jiangxi itself. Another million, 70%
live, 30% frozen carcasses, were sold to Shanghai, Guangdong, and Fujian.
Exports of live pigs to Hong Kong, running at about 200,000 head 1984-86,
dropped by nearly 8% in 1987 to 187,000, primarily because of competing
demands from domestic consumers for the scarcer lean meat varieties.
Domestic sales opportunities for the 300,000 lean meat pigs produced
annually by the project are expected to be excellent in view of rapidly
rising consumer demand for lean over fat pork. Export prospects should
continue strong with steady demand from Hong Kong and increasing sales to
the Soviet Union. About half of project output would be expected to be used
to fulfill export quotas, the other half consumed domestically, either in
Jiangxi (about 25%) or in nearby provinces. A relatively small portion of
total output--less than 10%--would be frozen.  There is still a clear
preference for fresh over frozen meat, though the market potential for
frozen pork is expected to expand.
6.4    Poultry. ES and Down Products. While poultry exports have not kept
pace with rapidly rising production trends (para. 1.7), China continues to
be a net exporter of live, fresh, and frozen birds. About 41 million live
birds and 17,000 t of fresh and frozen meat (mostly chicken) were exported
in 1987, mainly to Hong Kong and Japan. Hong Kong and other Asian countries
also bought over one billion fresh eggs from China. China's production and
exports of down and down products continues to rise. About 19,500 t of
feathers were exported in 1987 with an export value of US$93 million.
6.5    Jiangxi's year-end poultry inventory reached 72 million birds in
1987, up 2% over the previous year, poultry meat output stood at 57,600 t
or a 19% rise, and egg production held steady at 129,000 t. Almost all of
the poultry meat and eggs are consumed in Jiangxi itself. Exports of live
poultry stood at 130,000 birds in 1987 with another 110,000 sold to other
provinces. Judging from market trends for poultry nationwide, prospects



- 40 -
appear strong for profitable sale of project output of 9 million meat
ducks, 25,000 t of duck eggs, and 3 million geese. Projections call for
half of total output to be consimed in Jiangxi, 30% sold to other
provinces, and 20% exported, primarily to Hong Kong. About half of
project duck output would be sold in frozen form; though new to Jiangxi,
frozen ducks, whole and in parts, have found ready acceptance in other
parts of China. Specialty products produced by the project--Taihe black
bone chicken and pressed salted duck--have already found a firm market
niche in Macao, Hong Kong, and Thailand and demand is expected to continue
strong. Some 897 t of pressed salted duck were sold in Asian markets in
1987, a 20% increase over the previous year. Exports of down and down
products are also expected to continue the present rising trend.
6.6   Aguatic Products.  This has been a fast-growing sector, in terms of
both production and export trade. As shown in Annex 6, Table 1, China's
exports of all aquatic products reached 218,000 t in 1987, up 31% over
the previous year.  Export value was US$702 million, a 47% increase over
1986 and nearly double the earnings from live pig and pork exports.
Figures for the first half of 1988 show export volumes for aquatic products
up 8.5% over the same period in 1987.
6.7     Jiangxi's aquatic products output--mostly fish and mostly from
ponds--expanded on average 17% p.a. between 1981 and 1987. Total 1987
output was 225,900 t, almost all of it consumed within the province. With
current consumption levels in Jiangxi of only 6.4 kg per capita, project
incremental output of about 18,000 t should find ready markets. The bulk of
project output would be consumed fresh in the five producing counties and
three state farms. A small portion--about 5%--would be sent by refrigerated
truck for sale in northern Jiangxi. Jiangxi currently produces nearly 2 t
of freshwater pearls, half of which are absorbed in Jiangxi for use in
medicines and cosmetics, the other half sold outside the province. Project
output of an additional 2 t of pearls would be exported; this represents
only 2% of China's total exports of freshwater pearls.
6.8     Tea.  China's total tea output increased by about 27% over the last
decade reaching 508,000 t in 1987, with about 35% exported. Domestic
demand for tea is expected to increase from the present 0.3 kg per capita
to 0.5 by the year 2000 matching consumption patterns in other Asian
countries. Jiangxi's tea output which grew at nearly 8% p.a. between 1981-
87 is still a small 17,000 t or only 4% of national output. Black tea
accounted for 20% or 3,400 t, two-thirds of which were consumed within the
province. The tea produced in the project is a specialty tea which has its
own processing technique and unique flavor and does not compete in the
international market for black tea. The project's incremental output of
5,200 t would sell primarily in Jiangxi and other provinces (90%) with the
remainder exported to Eastern Europe.
6.9     Logfs, Pulp, and Rosin.  China imports large quantities of logs and
pulpwood. The 1987 import value of these goods was US$899 million,
accounting for 2% of all imports. Customs data show 1988 log imports
running at twice 1987 levels. Imports of both logs and pulpwood are
expected to continue at high levels as demands from the fast-growing
construction and paper industries deplete China's scarce supplies. The
Government projects a shortfall of 4-8 billion m3 of timber reserves by the
end of the century.



- 41 -
6.10     Jiangxi's total log output, which peaked at 3.0 million m3 in
1980, declined to 2.9 million m3 in 1986 as a result of stricter controls
on felling and extraction, and again to 2.5 million m3 in 1987. Jiangxi
currently sells logs to other provinces; about 1.7 million m3 or 70% of
total production entered interprovincial trade in 1987. Pulpwood
production in 1987 amounted to 261,000 t, all of which was used to supply
Jiangxi's paper industry. Project output of 579,000 m3 of logs and 59,000
m3 of pulpwood represents a substantial expansion (about 20%) over current
levels. Given China's severe wood shortage and rising import burden,
domestic sales opportunities for project logs and pulpwood will be
excellent.
6.11    Jiangxi's 1986 output of gum rosin was 30,300 t or 10% of China's
total.  Jiangxi ranked fourth after m.jor producers Guangdong (35%),
Guangxi (28%), and Fujian (19%). While both Guangdong and Guangxi scored
big gains between 1986 and 1987, Fujian and Jiangxi showed slower rates of
growth. Preliminary figures for 1987 show Jiangxi's rosin output at 35,000
t with about 5,000 t used in the province, 17,000 sold outside Jiangxi, and
13,000 exported abroad. Of the small output from the project's resir
processing plant--3,000 t of rosin and 750 t of turpentine--, about 40%
would be exported and 60% used domestically, 10% in Jiangxi itself.
Domestic demand is rising rapidly accompanying expansion of the soap,
paper, and paint manufacturing industries. World demand is expected to
rise slightly over the long term in view of declining production on the
part of major producers, including the U.S., who can no longer bear rising
labor costs in this labor-intensive industry.
B. Prices
Overview
6.12     China's agricultural price policy over the past decade his
focussed on:  1) adjusting--mostly upward--procurement prices of goods
marketed through the state-run system, and 2) reducing the volume and
number of goods subject to state monopoly purchase. At the same time as
lifting price controls, the Government has encouraged a more open marketing
system by easing restrictions on private interprovincial trade and
sanctioning establishment of free markets, both retail and wholesale. The
sum cotal of these measures has been creation of a more diverse and
competitive commercial environment: free market trade (the bulk of which
is in agricultural products) during the ten years 1978-87 increased from
12.5 billion to 115.8 billion yuan, or from 8% of total retail sales to
20%. The prices producers received for grain, vegetables, fruit, meat and
aquatic products more than doubled over this period. Consumers, both rural
and urban, also benefitted from the wider availability and higher quality
of farm products.
6.13     This success notwithstanding, price liberalization is associated
with the emergence of several disturbing economic trends: rising
inflation, sharp supply and price fluctuations, mounting state expenditures
on consumer food subsidies, and growing inefficiency in the allocation and
sale of farm inputs. The Government's response has been to reaffirm its
commitment to achieving a more market-oriented economy over the long term
while reverting to administrative controls and various price bonus programs
as interim measures. In late 1988 it was announced that further price
reforms would be deferred until 1990, sale of chemical fertilizers and



-42 -
other farm inputs must be handled exclusively through state agencies, and
private interprovincial trade in grain and vegetable oil would be
prohibited.
Output Price
6.14     At the farm gate level, most products produced by the project
would be sold at market prices eitheL through private trade or to state
agencies. Fish and poultry would be sold exclusively at market prices. In
the case of pigs, pork, and timber, a portion of project output- -15-20%--
from state enterprises (state farms, SFFs) would be subject to state
procurement at contract (in fulfillment of previously-agreed quotas) or
negotiated (above-contract sales) prices. Negotiated prices generally
follow supply and demand trends and are close to, but do not exceed, local
market prices. Free market and state procurement prices for most project
commodities have risen steadily over the past five years. The state
procurement price for live pigs was increased by about 50% in May 1988 to
stimulate lagging production. Official retail price levels in 1988 were up
37% for meat, poultry and eggs, and 31% for aquatic products over the
previous year. Annex 6 compares state and free market prices with average
unit export and import values for selected project outputs.
6.15     On both the procurement and retail side, pigs, pork, timber, and
tea are subject to some degree of state control through the system of
guidance pricing. Guidance prices for these products are determined at the
provincial or local level by price bureaus acting in conjunction with the
various line agencies concerned. In Jiangxi, for example, state guidance
prices for pigs, pork, and tea are set by the Price and Commercial Bureaus,
and timber prices are set by the Price Bureau in consultation with the
Bureau of Forestry. Prices on inputs are decided by the Price Bureau and
local Supply and Marketing Cooperatives (SMCs). The guidance price
consists of a base or floor price and a fixed range within which buyers and
sellers may negotiate. The base price is periodically adjusted in
accordance with three variables: 1) current costs of production, 2)
current supply and demand conditions, and 3) local policy on nutritional
requirements. Guidance pricing, while not always adhered to, allows the
state some leverage in determining the level and direction of market
prices. Pork pricing has an additional dimension of state intervention on
the marketing side: as a municipal subsidy item, pork continues to be sold
at state stores at low prices to registered urban consumers.
Input Prices
6.16     Farm inputs, which are mostly distributed through the state-run
distribution system, continue to be underpriced in the project area and
throughout China. For example, prices of urea understate the cost of
imported fertilizer by an estimated 30%. The state uses its near complete
monopoly of high quality fertilizer and other inputs to influence marketing
rates--farmers agreeing to sell pigs to the state are eligible to buy grain,
fertilizer, diesel fuel, and compound feed at low state-fixed prices.
Although moves have been made in the past few years to reduce inputs
subsidies, further progress is expected to be deferred until decisions are
made regarding the direction and sequencing of future market and price
reform.



- 43 -
C.  Marketing Channels
Domestic
6.17     State Agencies. State marketing of agricultural commodities is
dominated by government bureaus and associated parastatals which operate
under the administrative umbrella of the Ministry of Commerce (MOC). This
HOC network consists of three subsystems: 1) coomercial bureaus which
manage a complex of state food companies responsible for bulk procurement
and state food markets handling retail sales at administered prices; 2)
grain bureaus which control purchase and processing of food and feed grain;
and 3) the National Inputs Corporation and  SMCs responsible for inpLt
supply (except for feed grain) and purchase of farm products at the
grassroots level. These MOC-administered agencies handle procurement,
processing, transport, storage and domestic sales of almost all major
products, Including pigs, poultry, and tea. At the same time, enterprises
established by other central ministries are increasingly playing a role in
marketing. In the livestock sector, MOA's General Corporation for Animal
Husbandry, Industry and Trade and its subordinate companies have moved from
pure production functions into marketing as have the fisheries corporations
under MOA's Bureau of Aquatic Products. Marketing of forestry prcducts is
handled by forest ir.dustry companies under the MFO and its subordinate
bureaus. To make the picture even more complex, a number of new marketing
entities have sprung up in recent years--state-collective joint ventures,
rural marketing/service cooperatives, rural procurement and sales agents--
all of which are classified under state commerce for statistical purposes.
6.18     Private.  Private marketing or "free" market trading has become
increasingly important over the last decade in response to price
deregulation and the lifting of restrictions on long-distance trade.
Nationally, the number of free markets doubled during the period 1978-88 and
the value of farm products sold in these markets increased more than six
fold. Jiangxi had a total of 2,350 urban and rural markets in 1987, double
the number in 1978. Altogether they accounted for 27% of total sales to
consumers.
6.19     Most of Jiangxi's 300 urban agricultural markets are medium-sized,
permanent retail markets selling a range of products, principally meat,
poultry, fish, vegetables and fruit. Typically, goods are brought in daily
from nearby counties by the producer/vendors themselves in mini-trucks or
three-wheel pedal carts. The 100 or so stalls per market are leased on a
daily or long-term basis at rates which cover the costs of utilities
provided by the city. Typical markets sell between Y7-10 million of goods
annually. Most of these urban markets have been established within the last
four years with funding (Y75 million thus far) from the Provincial Industry
and Commerce Bureau (under the SAIC) which also supervises daily market
operations using a corps of uniformed inspectors. In addition to these
neighborhood markets, Nanchang and a few other major cities in the province
have established city-wide retail markets where the daily trade volume is
around Y50,000 and goods are sold by both private producers and state
commercial outlets. City wholesale markets, some private, some state-run,
have also appeared in recent years, primarily to aggregate goods for sale
outside the province and distribute imports.
6.20     Rural Jiangxi has a growing number of retail and wholesale markets--
about 2,000 in 1987--, some of them multi-purpose, others specializing in



- 44 -
particular product lines. With the increasing scale of household
production, farmers themselves are becoming less involved in marketing but
are relying on a growing number of intermediaries specializing in such
functions as transport, processing, wholesaling or retailing. These is
evidence in Jiangxi as elsewhere in China of markets developing long-range
and widespread geographical links which go beyond administrative boundaries.
Recent measures taken by Jiangxi, Fujian and Guangdong to remove
interprovincial barriers to agricultural trade is a step in this direction.
6.21     Domestic  Sales g  Proiect Output. Project producers would have an
array of options in marketing their output. They might sell through the
state system--to the buying stations operated by the state food companies,
for example--, directly to the state or private catering trade, or to urban
and rural markets. It would be expected that, as at present, about 60% of
domestic sales of pigs and pork would be handled through the buying station-
state slaughterhouse-food company-state food market route which is part of
the HOC (Jiangxi Bureau of Commerce) system. About 80% of project frozen
duck would be sold through these channels. The remaining project pigs, pork
and duck would be sold to private slaughterhouses, restaurants, and smuall
markets. Almost all eggs and fish would enter free market trade directly.
Tea for domestic use would be sold by producers to the Jiangxi Tea
Corporation, an MOC-affiliate. Project output of logs and pulp would be
marketed by thAe SFFs either through the county BFO's forestry company
acting as agent or directly to wood-procuring enterprises such as mines or
construction companies.
Export Channels
6.22     China's external trade is monopolized by a limited number of state-
owned foreign trade corporations (FTCs) which function under the authority
of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade (MOFERT) and its
provincial-level foreign trade bureaus. Until recently, national-level FTCs
such as the Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation
(CEROILS) supported by its own hierarchy of city offices and provincial
branches, conducted all trading activities directly, from the identification
of markets and negotiation of contracts to the procurement of goods from
producers and shipment to buyers. In 1988, authority was given to eight
provinces, including Jiangxi, to manage export marketing directly, and to
establish more flexible trade regimes, foreign exchange allocation systems
and export/import marketing organizations. This has meant a proliferation
of local agencies involved in foreign trade. In Jiangxi, some 25 provincial
FTCs, organized along specialized commodity lines, are registered under
Jiangxi's Foreign Trade Bureau. Each, in turn, controls a number of
prefectural ard county companies, some with associated processing plants and
factories. County companies are now permitted to sign contracts with
foreign firms. The major point of contact with foreign buyers is the semi-
annual Canton (Guangzhou) Trade Fair. Virtually all of China's agricultural
exports are marketed through bulk contracts entered into at the Canton
Fairs. While foreign trade is still controlled by the state sector, the
recent decentralization allows more immediate contact between producers and
foreign buyers, thus facilitating quicker responses to market demand for new
or better quality products.



- 45 -
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Production and Benefits
7.1      The major benefits of the prcject are incremental production and
increased rural incomes resulting from the improved quality, expanded
scale and increased efficiency of production. At full development, annual
incremental gross value of production of livestock would be Y363 million
(US$97.9 million), aquatic products at Y73.2 million (US$19.7 million),
and tea at Y40 million (US$10.8 million). The net present value of
forestry net benefits from the forestry component (over the 20-year life)
would be Y68.4 million (US$18.2 million).
B. Employment
7.2      Employment opportunities generated by the project would help
reduce underemployment among the rural labor force in and around the
project areas. The project would improve living standards and income
levels for some 3,800 SHs raising pigs, 9,_50 SHs raising aquatic poultry,
2,800 SHs raising fish, and 2,900 SHs growing tea; in addition, some 500
permanent jobs would be created on the new and expanded livestock breeding
farms and 200 on the pearl farm. Another 3,100 permanent Jobs would be
created in the new and expanded pig and poultry processing facilities and
feedmills, 85 in the rosin factory and 4,400 in the tea processing
plants. In addition to the 200,000 mandays of labor required each year
for the four year planting program, forest maintenance would require about
151,000 mandays of labor each year thereafter. In total, the project
would increase incomes for some 18,650 farm families and provide about
8,285 permanent jobs and 151,000 mandays, or the equivalent of 540
manyears, of casual labor.
C. Financial Analysis
7.3      A financial analysis was undertaken for each of the 36 types of
farms and processing plants expected to participate in the project. Most
of these activities would be newly established; exceptions are the pig
breeding farms, blackbone chicken farm, pork processing, eiderdown garment
factory, and tea refineries which would be expansions of existing
facilities. Estimates ot cash flows for individual models were derived
from estimates of government staff and the mission during prcject
preparation and appraisal. A cash flow model for a typical livestock farm
is shown  i Annex 4, Table 1.
7.4      The financial analysis has been conducted using March 1989 free
market and negotiated prices of inputs and outputs, except for raw
materials for feed mills (paddy, rice bran, soybean cake, rapeseed cake,
wheat bran, etc.), for which an average of procurement and negotiated
prices have been used (Annex 4, Tables 2 and 3). In the financial
analysis of livestock and aquaculture activities carried out by Sk.  the
cost of family labor has been excluded; in the analysis of state-owned
farms and processing plants and the tea rehabilitation households, hired
labor is costed at Y6/man day, the prevailing wage in the project area.
The analysis takes into account the production taxes, levied at the rate
of 5% of gross value of production, a,    the first five years in the case
of SHs and from the start of operatioz..        _her activities.  The



- 46 -
prevailing interest rates for industrial loans for working capital and fixed
assets have been adopted; these annual rates are 11.34% for loans maturing in
one year or less, 12.78% between one and three years, 14.4% between three and
five years, 19.24% between five and ten years, and 24% for over ten years.
FRRs are shown in Table 7.1.
Table 7.1 Financial Rates of Return (FRR)
FRR                                      FRR
Pig Production                                Tea
4 sows, 60 pigs                   >50         1 ha rehabilitation          15
12 sows, 180 pigs                >50          Primary tea factory          17
Provincial pig farm                32         Refining factory            >50
Pig breeding farm (120 sows)       15         Packaging factory           >50
Pig breeding farm (292 sows)       33
Feed processing
Aquatic poultry                                  20,000 t concentrate mill  33
3,000 local-type meat ducks      >50          15,000 t formula mill        29
3,000 large meat ducks           >50          5,000 t formula mill         31
1,000 laying ducks               >50          2,000 t formula mill        >50
600 meat geese                    >50         500 t formula mill          >50
Black bone chicken farm            15         Animal protein plant         40
Chicken dung fertilizer    20
Aquaculture
New pond, 1.2 ha                   38       Aquatic poultry & meat processing
Improved pond, 1 ha               >50         3.3 million duck plant       27
Nets, cages, barriers           14->50        2 million duck plant         22
Pearl culture                      44         0.6 million duck plant       34
0.14 million salted duck   25
Forestry                                        Meat processing             >50
Plantations                        24         Eiderdown                   >50
Rosin factory                      50
7.5      The financial rates of return (FRR) for livestock production carried
out by SHs is >50% in all cases. The FRR for aquaculture activities ranges
from 44% to >50% (with the highest FRRs reflecting sunk costs of existing
ponds), except for fish barriers which have an FRR of 14%, indicative of the
experimental nature of this component. The tea rehabilitation and forestry
components have FRRs of 15% and 24%, respectively. FRRs for the
agroprocessing, feed mills and breeding farms range from 15% to >50%. These
FRRs indicate a strong incentive for project participation. Loan recovery
periods range from one year for duck and geese SHs and five years (including
one year of grace) for pig SHs up to 10 years (including five years of grace)
for aquaculture. Most other investments would be recovered in 10 years, with
grace periods of one to two years, except for forestry which would have a 20
year recovery period, with ten years of grace. Analysis of the cash flow of
fish farms and households has been carried out to estimate the minimum



- 47 -
annual contract fee which could be levied on contract households in order to
recover the investment loan and operating expenses; this fee ranges from
Yl,100 for fish barrier households to Y7,200 for pond operators integrating
fish production with livestock raising. The financial results are
summarized in Annex 4, Tables 4 and 5.
D. Inomes
7.6      At present, the provincial average per capita income in rural areas
is Y429 (US$116), compared to the national rural income of Y463 (US$125).
At full development in year 2000, the per capita income of specialized
households would average Yl,100 (US$300) and range between Y480 (US$130) and
Y4,600 (US$ 1,260). The national per capita income is expected to rise to
about Y2,000 (US$540) by the vear 2000. Thus, Lbout 85% of the project
beneficiaries would still have lower than nationul average incomes, but
higher than the critical consumption level (CCL) of US$135. Household
incomes and enterprise profits are shown in Annex 4, Table 4.
E. Economic Analyses
7.7      An economic analysis has been carried out for the project as a
whole and for each type of production activity. A total investment cost cc
US$83.2 miliion, which includes physical but excludes price contingencies,
was used in the economic analysis. Investment costs associated with project
management, research, training and extension (US$ 4.8 million), were
included even though the benefits would extend to a large number of farmers
outside the project. All economic values were converted to local currency
at the official exchange rate expected at negotiations of Y3.71 - US$1.00.
The economic analysis uses an economic wage rate of Y4.0/man day. Other
prices, conversion factors, and a typical example of the ecornomic analysis
are given in Annex 4, Tables 6-11.
7.8      Using these assumptions and discounting costs and benefits over 23
years, the project's overall economic rate of return (ERR) is 39%, ranging
from 21% for pig production to 72% for iivestock processing. At a discount
rate of 12%, which is considered to approximate the opportunity cost of
capital in China, the net present value of the project is Y 717 million
(US$193 million). The ERRs were tested for sensitivity to cost overruns
shortfalls from project yields or prices, increases in the economic cost of
labor, and increases in operating costs. The livestock components are
sensitive to production costs, namely relating to feed--either cost or
quantity increases; however, it is likely that feed conversion rates will be
reduced as feed quality improves under the project. Switching values (value
of the variable tested at which the NPV of the project, with benefits and
costs discounted at 12%, is reduced to zero) and NPV elasticity (the
percentage change in NPVs due to a one percent change in the key variable)
were calculated. No single variable proved crucial to the economic
viability of the project as a whole or any major production activity. ERRs
are shown in Table 7.2.



- 48 -
Table 7.2 Economic Rates of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity
Base Case --------          Sensitivi$y -------------
Component             ERR   NPV   Benefits  Investment   Operating Cost /a
(%)  (Y m)     -10%   +10%   +20%          +10%
Pig production            22      27        9      20     19           12
Poultry production        31      56       12      29     27           13
Fishery production        50    135        34      45     42           39
Feed processing           40      93       17      37     34           22
Livestock processing      72    261        53      68     64           59
Forestry                  23      93       21      22     21           22
Tea                       23      48       17      21     19           20
Whole project             39    713        35      36     34           26
/a  For pigs, poultry, fish and feed processing, the greater part of
operating cost is for feed.
F. Risks
7.9      The project faces no unusual technical, organizational, or financial
risks. For the livestock components, the Jiangxi Animal Husbandry Bureau has
demonstrated its capability to recruit and train specialized households
capable of succeeding in pig and poultry production and in serving as
effective models for other farmers to emulate. There is some risk, however,
that adequate supplies of formula feed would be not be available when
required by project farmers. To minimize this risk, agreement was reached
with the provincial government that adequate funds would be made available to
obtain raw materials domestically or abroad. Organizationally, the project
is using the Jiangxi Agricultural Development Corporation which was
established under the Red Soils Project; its performance in handling the
earlier project has been satisfactory and it is being further strengthened
under the proposed project.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1      At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Goverrnment that:
(a)      the standards and methods of afforestation of the project would be
subject to consultation with the Bank Group from time to time in
order to insure consistency of objectives and approach between this
project and the Forestry Sector Loan under preparation (para 3.12);
(b)      the provincial government would ensure that sufficient funds for the
procurement of raw materials to produce feed of suitable quality
would be available for project livestock (para 3.14 (a);



-49 -
(c)      the training component would be carried out in accordance with a
schedule acceptable to IDA (para 3.16);
(d)      the provincial PO would maintain the consolidated accounts for
auditing annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that
the audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of
the close of each financial year (para 3.30);
(e)      the provincial government would ensure that project activities would
be carried out in conformity with national and provincial
environmental control standards acceptable to IDA (para 3.31);
(f)      the project office would be maintained with staffing, functions and
responsibilities acceptable to IDA (para 4.3)
(g)      project funds would be onlent to borrowers and sub-borrowers at
interest rates no less than ABC charges on subloans for similar
purposes with similar maturities, such rates to be reviewed with IDA
from time to time in light of the cost of the funds to the ADCs and
their financial viability, as well as changes in ABC's interest
rates (para 4.9);
(h)      the "float", i.e. any net cash accruals by the ADCs due to
differences in timing between subloan receipts and repayments to the
Government would be used by the ADCs only for financing development
activities similar to those undertaken under the project (para
4.10);
(i)      the JADC would submit to IDA an annual budget and work program for
new construction for review by November 1 each year for the
following year (para 4.11); and
(j)      the ADCs would maintain a sample survey of farm households for
monitoring of farm budgets and family incomes (para 4.15).
8.2      Understandings were reached with the provincial government at
negotiations on the followirg:
(a)      the Project Office would encourage participation of farm women in
project activities and at least 25% of the trainees in the training
programs for specialized households would be female (para 3.15);
(b)      the Project Office would furnish annually to IDA for its review and
comment a list of proposed overseas training and study tours for the
coming year with the purposes, destinations, names and titles of
participants and the criteria for their selection (para 3.16);
(c)      CMIEC would use a standard document acceptable to IDA for all ICB
procurement (para 3.24);
(d)      the provincial Environmental Protection Bureau would, on the basis
of their review of the Poyang Lake Management Plan, develop
environmental design specifications and monitoring arrangements for
project activities (para 3.31);



e so 0
(e)      the provincial government would submit a copy of the Poyang Lake
Management Plan, when completed, to IDA for its review (para
3.31);
(f)      the local training component for project participants in the tea
and forestry components would include a program specifically
designed to educate farmers in pesticide use and proper methods
of application, i.e. techniques, appropriate clothing and
equipment (para 3.32);
(g)      county level ADCs would not receive project funds until duly
licensed by the SAIC (para 4.7);
(h)      ADCs would retain sufficient spreads to cover their transaction
costs, including a reasonable provision for bad debts (para 4.7);
and
(i)      the provincial government would make available funds to meet
reasonable working capital needs of project participants in
subsequent years (para 4.12).
8 3      State Council approval of the Development Credit Agreement would
be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
8.4      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an iDA credit of SDR 46.2 million (US$60
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity. The
borrower would be the People's Republic of China.



JIMW XI AGRICaATURAL DEVEL0PPrT PNJ.CT
P.oj.ct Ar.. Stati.tic  (1967)
I   I        I             I            I        I    Tots      l                                                                                              I
I  To Iol   lA9r eUlIU  t |   Totul    I  hu a/    I         Iu Vy I Yluv of   OfWhich (ouhtut  Ilue)                               I Totl               Of ih n     _i_
A,..  ~~~    Total   1.    W     I   Total    1   u.         k      j. Aq,i.lt.-)I-------I------- -                                         JeI...dl'   --ag---
Project      Ioul.t onl   ulat,on t      uoold   l Households IL.hOru.. I  Output    IAp,i.ul trel  Forestry  IL n'odl      Sidel,n.   Fi4b ry  I  ar4      I Cr4in    Cah  O.r
000) o   I  (0000)          (000)        (000)      (00)      (Yooo)        (Y000)     (Y0 00)    (YOoo)   (Y7000)    (YOOO)  1   00S1.) |                      I ca
-------            -   ------------------             -------    ---  -    --------    ---------                              ------ --(I-------.-    -      -
1. Jitai  alsin         3124.00 I    2662.00 j      557 00 j    521.00 j 1169.00 1  961260.00 I 566210.00 I  77560.00  153100.00  141060.00   211100.00     l76.00    42.60    6.30    0.60
______       I          I             I             I           I         i                        t            I                                           I
Jimon County     I 46500            431.00 I     102.00    1  65.00 ; 1o2.00 1  157350 00 1 96110.00            D 9600.00 1 2630.00  2140.00    3610.00    106.00    7.40     1.60    1.10
Jiohui County    I   424.00 1      3 3.00         8 64.00 1    74.00 1 162.00 1  150230 00 13040.00 1   9170.00   2130.00   2270 .00    32000             62.00      60       1.00    1.JO
Ytnqfon  Cmunty       335. 00       30.00 1       40.00 1      59.00 ; 131 00    1.31120D.00      6.00         6.        2 0         0.40                                              I.0
Xisjis.g County   1   142.00 1      121. 00       30 1         24.00 I1  5200 1   66310 00   44360.00 1    620.00 | 104J0.00    400.00        130.00      46.00      2.20     0.J0     1.10
Shuichumo County  j   451.00 1      417.00 j      37.00        8 62.00 1 165.00 1  107470.00 j 55620.00 1  14140.00 1j6 6   00   IO66.00    21D0.00       ".OD I   3.0    0.15    0.66
Anfu County           348.00        2 204.00 1    72 00 I      54-00    124.00    1113b O.00 j 65460. O     1110.00   16170.00   16060.00 l.40.00         67.00      6.20    0.70    0.70
Tsilb County          444 00 1      39600             0 5.0    76.00 j 165.00   137690. 00   60840.00 1   6170.00 j 26690.00  1060.00           40.00 1   04.00      6.70     1."      1. a
Lianhua County    |   211 00 1      163.00        44.00 1      40.00     8 67.00 1   5260.00    30310.00 1   4090.00    6190.00   ff63.O      740.00 1   30.00      2.20    0.10    0.70
Jian Olunicipality    274.00 1      14.00 1      63.00 I      27.00 1  61.00 I   4820 00   2720.00 |    690.00 1 6470.00 I6620.00             0.00 I   2900         2.10    0.40    0.40
2. Jingd.zhn City   j  1245 00 1       629.00 1     294.00 1    150.00    3 375.00 1  290370.00  175690 00    135.00 I 47090.00    6640.00        1210.00    462.00    10.30    1.60    3.40   l_
-- - --- -- - - - I      I            I                   I               II 
3. Poyana Lak*      I  6997 00         M 6002.00 |    1436.00 1   1137.00   1669.00 I 5575860.00  1609760.00    54360.00 149156000 269.00  1inU.00   1489.00           *2.00   14.66    #6.16
*nehang County   j   873.00         77m.O         132.00 1    162.00 | 253.00   33716O.00D  256100.00        1770.00 1743)0.00   166l60.0    20600.00    212.00    13U40    0.00    6.90
Xinjia. County    l   543.00 1      478.00 1      110.00 1     93.00 1 146.00 1  187230.00  127870. CO       2760.00 1 38M.00   11630.00    61J0.00    82900 I        .40     1.40    J.00
Nnchan  Suburb       200.00 l      176 00        43.00        34.00 1  94.00 1   7S060.00   4970000 1   2190.00 j 6470.00 I12410.00    1030.00           as 00      1.70    0.212   1.20
Anyi County           S 590. 0D     520.00 I     16o00         9 69.00 1 154.00 1  251000 00   142020.00     1690.00 1 320.00   7040.00    10 .00       13600 I      .40     1.3    2. 70
Ji.ngimn County        66 00 l      46.00 1       16.00 I      10.00 I  18.00 1   20860 00    7490.00        3100.00 1 290.00    6#0.00        100.00      6.00 |   0.40    0 04    0.#3
Wini district    |   291.00 1       197.00 j      61.00        36. 00 1   6.00 I   6560. 00   35240.00 I    300.00 I 33710.00   660.00    60.00           24.00 1 1 60    0.10    0W60
Wgnn,an County    I   302.00 1      265.00 I      66.00 1      52.00 1  61.00      113740 00 1 62160.00 l   2110.00 | 1663.00   27660.00    2640.00        55|00     S. O0    0.0      1.40
Yugon County    |     6W. 00 I      6500    j  134.00         109 .00  1 160.00   i 190 00 1 111170.00 ;    2300.00 1 31440.00  61140.00  12170.00         16.00 j   7.60    0.10    3.00
Boy-n County     1  1064.00 1       959.00 1     206.00 1    171.00 1 2S5600 1  299490.00 1 207670.00 1 13S90.00 140J40.00 292-.00   14360.00            190.00 1  12.30    J.0        3.20
Dean County       I   159.00 1      122.00 j      34.00 1      21.00 1   38.00 1   5600 001  3453000 1    1770-00    720.00   3620.00    1360.00 2I.00 1|.S0                  0 40    O.30
Fngchn9g County  I  1040.00 1       657 00 1     216.00 1    166.00 1 265 00 I  43010. 00  92900C.00 I  13600.00 1 65700.00  6770.00    lO.00            20.00    14.40    2.00    6 6'
C-oon County      I   661.00 I      575.00 1      145.00   ;  112.00  I 189.00 1  305550 00   19660.00     5720 00   240.00 1 60110.00  SO20.O DO    171.00    10.40    2 60  i 3 70
Qinqjiung County  ;   477.00 1      367.00 |      103.00 |     72    | lSO        1990600   124060.00        2660.00   60270.00  162.00       U40.00     19.00 |    .W        0        S | 1
Total             I 11366.00 |    9267.00 I    2277.00     1606 00  3 3415.00   6160  2353660. 00 1 145600.00 1691760.00 14460.00  1260.00    2467.00   144.60    22.#6   46006
_____I                                                II                    I                                  II----    -  - -   -  -  I  I---- - - 
__ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _    __ _ _ __    _ __ _ _ _ _    _ __ _ _ __I  _ _ __ __II_ _ _ __ I_ __ _ _ __    _ __ _ _ _   _ _ __ _ _      _ _ _ _ __I_ __ _ _ I_ _ _ _ _       ___I_ __ _       _ _ _ 
oxI



CHINA
JIANOXI AUPICJLTtItAL DEVELIENT PRO.IECT
Project Ares Statistics (1967)
____          __ I-__I           _     I    _     I-____I__  I    _             I--I
I Total I    Total  I         Of Which     I Land
I  Land   ICultivated lIrrigated I Dry Land I per   I          I
Project      I  Ares   I  Lend    I  Land   I           I Capit  I Tonship I  illop  I
Aroe        I (Km2)   I (OOOho)  I(OOOba)I (OOOb) I  (be)I                I          I
1. Jital Basin         19674.10 1    803.2 I  266.40       3 32.70 1  0.09 I    179 I    g525 I
_____ _I  I           I          I         I        I          I          I
Jiln County       I 3096.901        60.61    46.00 I    4.60 1  0.091          201      420
Jishui County     1 2747.20 I       44.0 I   40.00 I    4.00)    0.10 I        24       J27
Yongfrns County    l 2696.10 I      36.3     32.60 l    2.70 1  0.11 2         20 I     269
Xlnjlong County    I 1237.40 1      21.2 1   20.60 I    0.70 1  0.15           12 1     100
Shuichunn County   l 3101.90 I      27.1 i    24.00 1    6.10 I  0.06          s JO I   371
Anfu County       I 2793.20 I       38.1 I   34.50       3.80 I  0.111         241      351 m
Tslhs County      I 2665.40 1       68.1 l   43.20 l    6.90 I  0.11 1         25 1     '  I
Lianhus County    I 1062.10 1       14.9 1   13.70 1    1.20 1  0.07 I         17 I     207 |
Jian Municipality  I  132.90 I      13.6 I   11.90 I    1.00 I  0.06 I         7 I      112
2. Jingdezhon City      5 5247.90 I    70.00     53.60 1   10.60 I  0.06         3 39 1    626
___ ____ ___     I          I           I         I          I        I          II
3. Poyang Lake       1 23067.60 1   571.40 1  484.80 I  259.00 1  0.06 1        266 1    am
I         I           I          I         I        I          I         I
Nsnchsng County    I 1363.40 1    72.60 1   67.90 1    4.60 I  0.06 1          24 1     J23J
Xinjisn County    1 2337.90 l      65.60 1   47.60 1    6.00 I  0.10 I         19 I      2  I
Nanchang Suburb    I  566.10 1      9.40 1    6.60 1    2.60 1  0.03 1         12 1     134
Anyi County       1   066.60 1    19.10 I   17.10 I    2.10 1  0.09 I          1i s     126
Jingxin County    l 1971.00       6 57.40 l   35.60 l   21.00 l  0.10 I       27        n 276
Wenli distrlct    1  278.00o        3.101     2.301    0.801   0.06            71       s0
Wennian County    I 1135.60 1    21.40 I   19.60 1    1.90 1  0.07             1C I     199I
Yuosn County      I 2330.60 0      47.50 I   40.90 I    6.70 I  0.07 I         29 I     429
Boyang County     I 4214.70 I    75.70 I   55.60 I   20.10 I  0.07 I              I     547
Dean County       I  926.90 I    10.70 I    9.10 I    1.60 I  0.07              13 I   114
Fengcheng County   I 2644.70 I    87.90 I   73.70 1   14.20 I  0.0            32        514
Gaoon County      I 2439.80 1        .60 I   53.70 1  148.00 1  0.10 I         19 I     JOI
Qinqjinng County   1 1266.30 1    42.70 1   34.70 1    0.00 I  0.09 1          15 I     2C4 
Total             l 47909.60 l   944.80 l  764.00 l  282.60 l  0.06 I         U64 l    6746 1
_____ - - - - - - - - - - I   I          I         I          I        I          I         I
I,-.----I---                                 ,         ,I----_-------



04DA
JIANCXI ACaRICILTUT AL DVELM FDJCCT
POjeet Are Stti,ti,a (197)
                     I-- - - -- - - - -  -     - ----  I-- - -- - -- --- -- --- - -   I                      I          I -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - --
    - - --------   A-                                                                                   I ----.-I-                         Ofsid. 
To%& I       I  A.of DiI   i              '. - I                 Iea-e    I            iI  ,ue         vs ic  iw.          --7                      "I o
I   Sr_n         Tte i         dr o.      I          I_n  Toa I___________         Pgt~"   )SloItebr  I              Aejt..   I r          -___   Pm.19y  i   -ut .1
Prj ect      I   Area ,        Yild      I   re,       I  Are.   I   Yield         Citt1.   )1.-no.y I  Pe            P_oltry I  PedrFreb  |  "Mt         PDr'        Mt   iastle. sho Ew
A-       I     (O.)            OOT)         '0OOT)   I  (heO)   I  (Y1000)        ('00O)   I ('       000)0)O                       )                   CT)        (T)    I    mod r4.t Ti
-- - - - --- - -----                        -- -i ----                       -- -- --I-------
1 Jta I_in-- I    4260 00 1               1lSD4 00 I     S  00 1 2110 00 1       5160 00 1   4S 00   1        21 00  tl72.00    6240 ao031 22.00 1 U654.00   6618 .80    9I.6D             106.60   476.90
J.e C.o.ty                74 00 i       24 .00 |       9 00 i  260 50 i        756 00 |    64 00 i  213.00        1S  00 i    D  00 i       4.00  I 1i.00   10647 0O        .40          2.60D   66.s6
J i.. C=ty         I      6.600 I       254 .00        400       122 90 1      201.00         I 51 00 1  190 00   14S 00      700.00        1.00 I16O4I.60   10173.80      a.  DM9. 0    404.60
Y..qfeo Co-rty    1       52 00         17600          2 00       39.0          55.00 1    4600        16 9lCO        00      570 00        2.00 10.00 SD      ai          4Q.0m0        101.2i mAO
Xi aj    C...ty    I      S2 00         1270 Q         2 00       44.70 1       100 00 1    27. 00 1       00S    54500      390 00 I                4.00    80600        390:6 0        N.OD      It  O
huoid,ocn Coooty   1      39 00 I       18 00 1         1 00 1  660 20 1       16 100       33 00 I  185 OD        10 00      780 00        2.00 I M.70    767. so    66.70 I             '.M0       .40
An.U Co.t,         I      53 001        192.00 I       S 00 I  149 40 1        542.00 1    62 00    13 500         64Q00      740 00        2.00   67.00        610.00     21.0           44.30 D    .Q0
Tai  Co..tvy       t      67.00 1       210600 1        9.00 1  414.2n 1       1301.O0 1    79 00   192.00         146 00    1240.00        *.00  i107.70    9411.40    6a.70            806      161O.lU
L ah- C<t.Y        1     22 001 OQ90O I                 1 00 1   07 70 1       467 00 1    21.00 1   79.00         4S.00       a-00         1.00   19.0 QiD        00     2T0.00)         60.        211.00
Jim lXni bi-plty  1      21 00 1        72.Q0 1        2.Q01   21 40 1          75.00 1     25 00 1        0 JSOO  550        2W.00Q        2.00   S_G.OO    J.0O           M.  40. D       .90    404.QO
2  J- n     n City    I    103 00          4S5.00i         7 00    6600 00      21M3000 |    54 00 1   229 00 i   211.00 -      2027.00|       400  17. W    1.00             .QO            W.OD   sm.o  I)
3  J"Ug Lo.1   5   I         21 00        4 72 00          200  1I2101                                              2211001   O0  66 00  2236001    290.00  Q2.Q00  18600  6. D0  1476.60    69.640    464.00
.I ragehn Co ty    j    ;34 00         744 QO          5 00    217.5 1        2M.00 1                 372.00 1 27.00    29.0           .0 M        176 l.90t  21 . 0    9146.00          U 9.0 D      .00
S. P.1..6 Lake     I     90U 00 I      4437 00 I       12 00   18443.20 1    134 00         S 58 00 12S9000 1   IS6.00        7 1 .0 0     00   S 1OO 074.0D  1U20.Q0   1.10             104.40   46.60
lbnche..g S.Ao.b . I      17 00 I       108 00 1        1 00 |   47 00 I        50.00 I    17 00 I   77 00 o       4 .00      JQ00.00 |     100 .  Q  14 .00   86.00 Q   I 10.00 |         i.Q00    .Q0
Anyi C~oty         I      94 00         293 00 1       4 00 1  380 00 I        301 00 I    55 00 1  296.00 1   196 00    1700 00 I          7.00  1369.00   123JO 00  i 1 .00 I            0.0   40D.00
Jixnis. Co_nty    I       4.00           1900)         1001   04 00 1           92000        40) 1   20.00 1    1800)          74.00        0.001  1201.00    1187.00       6.O I           .so    16.00
we.,) deItiet      I      16 00          63.00 I        1-00     160.20 1       104.00 1     5 00 I  106.00        04.00      U4.OO 1       5.00 1 10406.00    m6. D   2431.00            92.20    471.0
we   .n ConSy      I      35.00 1       15600 1        2 00    1009 10 1       149.00 1    20.00 1  141.00 1   102.00         5556.Q0|      2.00 I 74.00    66.O  I  26.00 .Q.00    960.00
Y."a. Co..ty       I      75 00         292 00 I       600 I  103 90 1         712900 1     43 00    2 366.O      136 OO    I600 0         0.00  I  f10970.00   10069.00 I 73.00       M7.00  864.00
64yuo  Cmnty             I= 1  00 j     540.00 1      24.00 I  628.20 1         13.000 I    76 00 1  400.00       22'900D    1098.00 I    12.00   19.00   176I 1.00 |WIOI                 61.00   2U90.00
D." C-..ty         I      16 00 1        5 00 I         3 00 1   9 *0 1         9.00 1    12.00 I   51.00 I    52.00          M 3 2.00 1   1.00 I 3. 00           .00 I  241.00 1        21.00   7m.00
F.grh.ns C-to   y        144 00 I       631 00 I        6 00 I 1706 40 1       4915.00 1   112 00 1  402.00 I    4 O.00 j  2.00 1    11.00  1 8 .00   296.0               8 74.00       81.00   962.00
Occ. C-octy              106l00 I       503.00 1       17 00 I  744 40 1       1007001   120 00 I   91. 00        324.00 I  1261.00 I       6.00  .2427.00          00     6.00          .12.00   U90.00
Qt  qji jn County         69 00         310 00         13100     82.20 1       1624.00      55 001   235.00       276 00      904.00)       5.00)I 21144.00   I4.0        177.00         177.00   I1.00
Toal                    1434.00        60" 00         1 139.00   14j62 00   ll4   00  |1124 001 456 00           3371 00   2329 00 IIQ   .00 1121a1.60  8_1.60   196.70 I               2 .00    9.70
------ -- --- --- -- -    - --- -- --- --- -- --- --- -- --- --- -- -- ---- --- --- -- --- --- -- ---  -- -- --- -   - -- --- ----- -----
'I.
i 



- 54                                       ANN- 
Table 4
JIANSI A6RICULTAAUL DEVELOPMPT PR OJECT
Plan for Production of Livestoek Feed Materils                 Unit: 10,OOOt
ITEM            1060    1os      1904     1#06     1966    1907      1960     1996    2000
Total Grain Output 1240.00  1400.60  1549.20  1588.50  1458.60  1662.80  1600.00  1960.00  2160.00
Feed                 36.0   102.20   106.40   107.30   101.60   109.40   261.00   268.00   319.50
Rep  ids              7.20    14.10    14.60    15.67    15.60    17.20    21.00    27.60    36.00
(converted to)
Rapesee  coke         4.10     8.00     6.80     6.90     8.90     9.30    12.00    16.70    16.60
Soyben               11.26    12.90    18.80    14.51    12.60    14.83    22.60    26.60    61.00
(converted to)
Soybean Coke          1.90     2.20     2.26     2.60     2.10     2.40     6.10     4.30   19.18
Cotton                4.80     4.60     6.90     6.22     6.60     6.90     6.50     6.80     7.20
(converted to)
Cotton Seod Coke      8.10     8.60     6.00     4.60     8.96     4.20     4.70     4.90     5.10
P-enut                6.06     6.24     7.42    10.80    18.60    15.60    14.00    16.00    18.80
(convertod to)
Peanut Cak.           0.76     0.94     1.10     1.66     2.00     2.40     2.80     8.20     6.60
Sesame                1.61     2.60     2.62     2.91     2.40     2.76     6.00     7.00     9.00
(converted to)
Sesame Cake           0.22     0.86     0.39     0.46     0.80     0.41     1.00     1.40     2.70
Cake Output          10.06    16.02    17.06    17.90    17.32    19.21    26.00    29.60    61.33



CHINA
JIANGXI A6ItCULTIEAL DEVElPltENT POJECT
Raw Material Supplies of Jiangxi Feed Industry
1   --- - ---- -           --         ------  --                - -------- 10-- ----  2000
Soure                              Source                       Source                       Seer-
Amount ------------- --------
It"                                 Required    Prov.  State      Other    Demand    Prow. State/        Demand    Prov. State/       Demnd   Prow. State/
Fred.  Al loc.   Proy.                Prod. Other                  Prod. Ofhtr                  Prod. OUher
Formuloa fed                           1,816                                 5,560                         160O                          7SOO
Energy feed                         98       "1    206        149      2,645    2,645                U870     8670                5720      gm62      40S
Corn                              172       11       76       so
Uh t                               U6        S       26       26
Paddy rice                        227      122      106        -
S   t potato,  etc.                91       91
Rice/wheat brona                  867      849                86
LA'
Protein feed                        142       07        0       66        776      414      81    1,119.0   486.0   630.0           1680     104       561
Plant protein                     106       77        0 o      1        655      306      849        964      a68      5I         1410     08        574
Soyborn/peosut eako               84        5                29
Cottonseed, rapeseed cxak         64       62                 2
Othe cakes                        10       10
Aniemi protein                     84       10        0       24        120      106       12      165.0   123.0    86.0          220      215         7
Fish *s c                         26        1                24
Blood meul, bone meal              a        a
Other                              6        6
Mineral.                             20       20                           65       65                86.0    66.0                  11s       115
Addlteves                             5                          6         15                15       25.0              25.0          as                35
Rougha&                             214      214                          856       a"               510.0   516.0                   IS0      0
Total                             1,316      902      205      209      8,3U    5,432       376    5,61O.0  4,906.0   665.0        7,70    6,67      1,061
-I-
m 
E



-56 -                           AN      I
Table 6
CHDM
JIAUI AICULTURAL DSVELOPST  PUCT
ProvImlel Ot, fed Convelrson Etat  ee Feed ReuIremwet
-----P--projeted --------
tem                   Welts        1Unc    IUo      1664     1"6    106    3.9?    1000    10           3000
Park Ott               000 t               1.a  6.0   478.1    .0    722.6   778.1    U8.1  1'M.* 1,715.5
rcr /a                             4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      8.6     8.6      8.5      8.0     2.0
Feed letuIremet       '000 t   1,440.2  1,567.3  1,901.4  2,86.4  2,746.5  2,967.6  8,060.7  4,166.7  4,400.8
C_se  Output          '000 t        8.2     2.7      8.6      4.8      5.1     6.6     2.4    41.6   1n.7
Fre  a                              2.6      2.6     2.6      2.S      2.6     2.6      2.5      2.4      2.2
Fee No" ire_mt        'ooo S        6.0     7.0    10.6    18.4    14.2    19.8    00.0   100.8   428.9
utt" Opt               Oo t        0.5      0.8      0.6      0.7      0.7     0.6      6.1    12.6    80.6
FCR /a                              2.0     2.0      1.0      1.9      1.6     1.0      1.8      1.2      1.1
Feed Re";,remeat      '000 t        1.0     0.7      1.4      1.8      1.8     1.6    10.0    15.4    88.6
Poultry outpt         '000 t       26.4    25.1    80.0    40.2    48.8    57.6    64.4   149.4   867.6
FCR /a                              8.5     8.5      8.5      8.5      J.0     2.6      2.5      2.2      2.0
FPe Ro"uIrement       '000 t       62.8    67.6   104.9   140.7   145.0   161.8   286.0   J20.J   775.5
Rabbit Output         '000 t        0.1     0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      8.0      4.6    23.5
FPC /a                              2.0     2.0      2.0      1.6      1.6     1.6      1.8      1.8      1.2
Fee Requirement       '000 t       0.2       0.8     0.8      0.8      0.4     0.4      4.0      6.8    2J.2
Milk Output           '000 t        6.8    14.5    16.0    10.2    16.6    22.2   126.0   250.0   450.0
FCi /a                             0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4      0.8     0.3
Fee Requireet         '000 t        8.7     5.6      6.4      7.1     6.6       6.0    48.6    60.0   1U5.0
Ego Output            '000 t       55.0    62.0    s6.0   118.6   129.2   129.0   129.0   400.0   650.0
FCR /a                              8.5     8.5      8.6      8.5      8.2     8.2      8.0      2.8     2.5
FPe  Requirement      '000 t      16..5   207.0   882.5    896.8   418.8   412.9   U87.0  1,120.0  1,625.0
Flsherele  Output     '000 t       75.5   115.5   180.1   160.2   192.6   225.9   880.0   450.0   000.0
FCR /a                              8.0     8.0      8.0      8.0      2.6     2.6      2.2      2.0      1.5
Feed Requireet        '000 t      226.5   844.6   890.8   460.6    569.6   564.7   726.0   900.0   600.0
TOTAL FEED REQUIhEMET '000 t   1,974.4  2,828.1  2,786.6  8,426.4  8,0U7.8  4,106.0  4,568.9 6,744.5  6,861.5
*/ FP Convorelson Ratio



A~1
Table 7
- 57 -
oa
JIAIOI AIcULtLlAL  rVELPMT ROECT
wIboll Sh_drd  tor P_rere  Fed
CeeeeuAre~e  Femule          Proe.in
Fed                Feed               Fed
Dlgnetable Energy (kcel/kg)            2e00                2900
Crude Protein                            S5            12 - 14             20-8s
Crude Fiber                               7            7.5 - 9
Calcium ()                              2.5               0.45             12 - 20
Phosphorous                                               0. 5              6 - 10
Moisture                               12.5                12.5                 10
SIze (m)                                2.5                 2.5
Coefficient of even variance (X)         10                  10



04DM
JIMOCI    10LUj1U%L OEVE0UPIr  0J.RT
Peed NW Fbe obt.ril Requirements at Nill De..lepnt
~~~.inI. ~~~~~~~~~~~Faesm la -              -    ---befo  materials (Formi a feed)   --               ----b          tras(Cgsemtretef)
Ani_l                   Animl-   Fe" Requirement            y       1ft   (t)    Paddy    Corn      Rice Ric.  r.      W_ect Concentrate      Fic1.                o d   P_   in Ci
Bran    Cab.        111e..                NM~I      e        a               Co=ect
PM
becialiiad Hueholds
aftecing vigs /a    s ".     J00  g/pi  (forll                   76.04    2S,641    11,611    15.761    11,221       7.30      7,60        1.,U2     2.34      D.U 7i6                a4
Pislt /a              262.60      10 kg/i   forua                 2.2     7   766        894 6N4 S6                                                     7        162                   1
Soee /b                17,512  1,100 kg/ee/yeer (foeule)          19.26      5,779     2.6       3,6      2.01194    1.261    1.6           26        67        771        16"        If
Jian 11redieg Pare
Sm /b                     292  1.100 kg/eec/yeer (forml)            621       e6         46        64        46        6         S2           a         10        is                   2
_ar  /b                    81  1.400 Itbr/yper (formla)              45        14         7         *         7         a         5           I         1         2          0         0
Piglet /a                4672     10kg/p   fermc                     47        14         7         9         7         5I        5           1         1                    0         0
Ileeding Pipe /a         2400   12 k/pig          u) 365                      109        5         7         55 76 66                         5        11        1s          4         2
Patteing pigs /a        1,000   S00 kg/pig (formi.s                 300        g0         45        60 4S               JO        J0           5         9        is         8         2
Teo breeing form (to1te)
Sm /b                     240  1.100 kg/   /your (formic)            294       79         40        5S        40        26        2            4         6         11         a         1
kre /b                     20  1.460 lg/ar//r (fOrHmi)               29          a         4         6         4         a         a           0          1         1         0         0
Piieft /e               3,940     10 kg/pi ( fOmsi)                  36         12         6         6         6         4         4           1         1         2          0         0
6reeding pion /a        2.160    162 kg/pig  formic                  32        96         4         66t       49        as                     5        10        18          S         2
Production fare
sm                        O6   1.100 kg/r/yer (formlm)               7U3      22         110       147       110        7         73          11         U        20          7         4
Scar. /b                80  1.440 kg/beor/y_er ~frla)             44        1S          7         9         7         4         4           1         1         2         0         0
Piglet. /a             10.65      10kg/pig (fokig/                   107       J2         16        21        16        11        11           2         S         4          1         1
grosnd                                                               L  1,00    15  kg/pi (formI)  152  4  23  30  23   15        16           2         a         a          2         1
Fattening plig /a       9,000     00 kg/pig (formw.)              2.700       410        406       540       406       270       270          41         1       1Me         n         14
Pigs_./%quocwlt.ro
Patsteing pigs /a      27r SW    300 kg/pig (ferml)               6.200     2.464      1.242     1.,56     1,242                             124       246         1l        a         41
Piglets /              27600    10 kg/pi (formaI)                   276        e3         41       5S         41        26        2            4         a        11          3         1
Sra  /b                 1.640  1.100 kg/r/wyear (formic)          2,024        607       504       406       304       202       262          S0        61        61         20        10
TOiTAL PM                  116,747    85.024    17.512    253.49    17.512    11.675    11,675        1.75      3.        4,S70     1.167       S
ASTIC 7W.LTRY
Pin-sc PUL.           2. 000         9 kg/dck (formi)              26 .92    10.757      S.375         0     4.0S4     2.369     4,0S4          07     1.614     1.009        401       20S
lh ducbeIt            5.910.000  2.626 kg/duck (formia)             16,614     6.206        S     ,10   0    2.627     1,651     2.627         4u6       981                            116
2.14   kg/duck  grin)   15.514
r ducke /d              979 000   U. 9 kg/duck (form) )             62 ,66   25 02       .21.12        0 52     S4 I.26          9.U4 1.S77             a7"                   o 26      469
wbg suck. ./eswuItt  6S4,000     639 kg/du   (arforIca)           84.123    1 64        6,02S         0     5.119     * 412     5.119       1.024     2.047     1260         U12 
Oceec 1s              3.118.00      9 kg/gcoc (forem I)           23.069    11,25       5,614         0     4.210     2,.07     4.210         642      1.69      1.06        411       211
Parent pIoltry If        92,000     54 kg/duck (formlI)             4,96o      1.987       994         0       745       497       746         149       26          "         7         87
TOTAL AnTIC PlULYY         172, 14    S6.49    34.426          0    26,619    17.212    26.U19        5.164    10.#1      6.4       2.U2      1291
IIAOU    CaCs FA40                                                              '
FPrent stock6.60                    80  elg/ch  Sn                     196       79         40         0        80        20        80     4              12         7    2               1
li_rin4ock                6,6000    10kg/ci. .n                         66 24               1S         0        10         7        10           2         4          2         1         0
Ce_rcicl cbicken        40,000      3 kg/ch i ken                     120       46         24         0        16        12        1s           4         7         6          2         1
TOTAL N.AOE  0C)llOO           304       1I4        77         0        as         8         so          12        26        14         a         S
PF1S /6                                                            2.000      6.000    50C0           0     1,200         0     7,.00         593     2.025    4.9           167         0
TOTAL  M  IJE       ITS              16.514   X09.255   110.027    67,014    23.849    44.6W    2C.926   45.361          7.519    15.661    16.18I      .942     1.67
/a Pigs                                                                          3s on coitin n- folla  80  15  20  16    10        10          18        S0        40         10         5
/b Som              lsed on camipostion  me foll_ "S) 80                                    15        20        1S        10        10          18        80        40         10         6
/c Ducks            bsd on co96ositien s  ol Io Im )                             40         20         0        15        10        18          20        40        U          10         6
/d Ega duck.        Bed on compesition as follmr                                40         20         0        15        10        16          20        40         U         10 
/c0n_ age            a     n compoition as follnos                               40         20         0        15        10        18          20        40         U         10         a
/f Pro'et pouitry ramcdn co_osition me follos                                    40         20                  15        10  16                20        40         U         10         a
/9 Fi               name rncomp  itirn nn toollram                               So         215        0         4         O        S9         7.6         is        U        2.4         0



041146
JIANCxI AIRICLUTLUAL OEYELOff PROJECT
D;etrib.t-O- of Project Wor,k  *nd Scal, of Prd..cton
Mn,is_ I   ab                                               - ----------  ------------------- Aqu    I u ---------------
"at  Hb    Eeq    GC   Pie  Breeding            Mas  I_-   Not          Met     Nat    P....       T.&  For.ty    -----Food sill  -------Aoeaocp-       n0 Inn
Duck.          , Ouckl  OFl.   Pare.            Pond  Pond.  EL.cI       m-r,e-  Caige                              Caeacity  Ty".         Fcil te o              Fac.l9 F -
----(no  o  84e.l zei   Houee(no /typ.)         -------------(h.)            _-      -        (h.)    (h.)      (t/yr)     /a  (no                             e I )
JiTai Seei                      100   297   100 4.000 1O346 1 Aq P. I Pi;        200       0        0       0       0      0 0       0    4.492 0
io.n P-fictur-                                                                                                                                    2O.OD0   C       I                            10 SO Prefect. ADC
Jian Counity                     IO0          SDO   367                                                                              2.246      15.000   F       A                              SOO County MOC
Arf. Count.y                                         13                                                                                         10.000   F       1                              500 Ceunty MDC
Yeji ing County                                      123                                                                                                                                        S0  County MaC
Yonf n County                                 500   306                                                                                         10 000   F       I                            1.000 Ceuaty ADC
Jimn City                  100                sao   lS3         I AqP       200                                                                 5.000   F       1   Pi *liu-ht-. house        1.000 City aC
Jiehui County                     47          50    184         1 P;i                                                                           10000   F       I                              s1  County AC
Shaaicnuen Count,                 150   100 1.0DD                                                                                                                    PM0 ... De. adu          1.000 County MDC
TSih- County                                                                                                                         2.246                                                       S0o County MAC
L-h.F  Cou-ty                               1.000                                                                                                                                             1.000 County haC
Poysna Labs Region              200 1.07b   779 1.100 1,440 15 Aq P. 2 P;6 o      50   1.069      276   1.000       3    200
ftschsngg City                                                                 28                                                                                      Duck.  1     n' (3 *)   1. S0 proc  M C
Nenchang Crunty                         100   300    30 2 Aq P.IPiP          61               21     39        2
Kinjian County                           so   100  I1S          2 A          5 S              43     204  O                                     5.000   F 3                                    SCO County DC
Anyi County                 40    30                  5         I Aq P                                                                                                                        1.000 County  ADC
W.-[; Dipt'ict              so                        58                                                                                                                                         0 5t.tM
h nchanr  ebur-b                        100   200    SO         2 Aq P       76                                                                                                                 SO0  Distrie tC AjD
lin. n  County                                       55                                     145      39    0 67                                                                                 sea COty MC
Shuangjain Fere
haa.ngr-o pr-ef uct-*                                                                                                                            20 00C   C       I   Duck p,roce:o g (3 a)      7e0 Prefect. MC
wan,nii  County                                      100        4 AO P                        67                    200                          5.000   F       I                            1.000 County A-C
Poyang County               50   495   120           100        4 AO P              484                                                          6.500   F      1a                              SO  Cooty MDC
Yugen C-anty                50   495   120          100                             485                                                          6.500   F      13                              S00 County MC
Ychu.n Prefecture                                                                                                                                                                                 750 Prefect  ADC
Olopn County                                  150   350                                                                                                                                         SW Cownty MC
Fre.cheng City                          25'  200                            329                                                                 15.000   F       1                              500 County MIC
Zhengeha City lb                              150   350                             100                                                                                                       1.000 cento MDC
J.ilndethoe. city                                                                                                                        2.213                                                    2.500 City aC e2000).
Lap i . , Cou. ty                                                                                                                                  Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ou See- Inot. (N00)
Legna County                                                                                                                  667                                                               500 CO.aa.yMOC
Jisot,n Di.tr,ct                                                                                                            2667
M.h  D 0tr,ct                                                                                                               I166
ch-s. i*ng D ietrict                                                                                                          167
Zhuehl.n District                                                                                                             140
Stete Fare System               696   60    100    9       12 7 AqP. IPi         417        0       0        0      0      00        0                                                              1.000 Plro. Lend
H nahu, (X,njipn Count.y)   1S0   110    40          164        2 Aq P      202                                                                  *.000   F       4   Duck Procemieg (2w)        500 lea  ADC
H .gfe.  (Nongnu County)  150   110    40            162        2 Ag P      142                                                                  *.000   F       4   Duck  roceessig (2 *)      500 Feam MC
Kenosha. (Yu.pn County)   12    101    20                       1 Aq P       73                                                                  6000   F       S   Ouch preceesia  (0.6       SCO FP r  MC
Caa.gng (Dean Coua.ty)    266   262            9W   162         2 Aq P
Hla.i.n (Denghn County)                              162        1 Pi;                                                                            2,000   F       1                              500 Pe- MC
Yunehe.. (Yonga.,; County)                           162                                                                                        4*000   F        2                              500 FPe   MDC
Tp-h.e ftecl.mtionP FPe                                                                                                                          4.0 O    F      2                              500 FP e    DC
TOTAL                        996 1.970   979 5. 19e 3J S                  0 1.167   1.069      276   1.000       3    200 0       0    6S705    156.000           s0                           25. 500
/a C . Conceatrte. F - For ula
/b FPepr ly c I l d Qin ja n  County



CHINA
JIMNXI AIRCtTIC E DEELOPENT POJECT
RJECT COST SU"WY
(Y '0060                                    IU M '434
I TOtal                                     I TOW
I Foruiv ln 2nt                               fmi   kw
Local   Foreim   Total   Exde     Costs   Loal  Foreign  Totl   E,-h             Cuts
A. ATAI 35SI NO
1. P6I PRUICTION                                    13,vS3,4  3,877,8  17,761.2       22       5  3,742.2  1,045.2  4P77.4         22      5
2. AUTIC POuLTRM                                     6i730.4    255.0  7,O35.4         4       2  1,627.6    167   1,94.3           4      2
3. FEED PROCESSIN                                    1,327.0  20a125.5 289452.4       71       7  29244.5 5,4244.  7t*l            71      7
4 AATIC PlRY PROCESSIK                               3,339.2  1.012.9  4,852.2        21       1  1,034.9  m2        13tW.9        21      1
5. FORESMtY                                         12422.4  3,610.0  16,032.4        23       4  3,349.3   973.1  43.4            23      4
6. AMKULTRE                                          5,590.3    346,5  5,26.9          6       2  1,504.1    93.4  1457.5           *      2
Slotal AJITAI 1N611 a                                  50,3.6 299227.6  a60060.4         37      21  13,701.5 7,37.1  21579.6         37     21
3. JIIIIEN   A
1, FWlESY                                            4,572.7  1,534.9  6P107.6        25       2  1P232.5   413.7  1646.3          25      2
2. TEA IIUUT                                        579914  15,919.8 73,811.5         22      19 15,604.2 4,291.1  19.95.3         22     1t
Sub--Yotal JINKLIWENMDU 62464.3  17,454.8 799119.1                                       22      21  16W336.7  4,74.9 214541.5        22     21
C. MN111 LAE NO
1i PIB FROITION                                      9063.5  2,607.5  114671.0        22       3  2443.0    M2.6  3,14.l          22      3
2.  ATIC PWOLTRY                                    189037.7  2,69.4  200737.1        13       5  4,961.9    77.6  5W*95           13      5
3. FEED PROCESSIN                                   6h53.7  8999.5  159543.2          58       4  1,716.5 2,423.1  4,199.5         3       4
4. AUTIC POLTIRY PROCESSIIS                         15,605.3 139630.1  299235.3       47       1  4;206.3  3,673.9   7,601         47      U
S. MKULTUE                                          44,131.2  39251.9 473933.1         7      12 11695.2   676.5  12M1.7            7      12
SlTotal 3011  LAIE NEo                                 93,391.3 31,173.4 1249569.7       25      32 25,172.9 3,403.9 33.576.7         25     32
8. 'eserd'hrextUmimntraining rnd technical asistane    14M,65.4  3p933,1  186691.5       21       5  4,065.0 1,033.2  503M.1          21      5
E. increvtntal orkinh capital                          61,S69.7  227M.3 34342.0          27      22 16,595.6 6,139.1  22M733.7        2?     22
Total DKELINE COSTS                                     293,116.4 1049466.3 367W582.7      27    100 76,311.7 26,159.0 104,469.7       27    10
Pirsical Continiencies                                209540.1  64606,6  27,149.8       24       7  553h.4  1,791.3  7,317.7         24      7
Price Contin uacies                                   72664.7 25,343.8 96,006.5         26      25  7,359.0 2W55U.9  9,94.3          a       9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     376,321s2 136.418.7 512,;40.0      27    132 6R9266.1 32,496.2 1217,0Q.3        27    116
. .                _________                                _______  ____                                                                                       _ 
March 20w 196 15:S9



CHINA
JIW1XI AIRICtLIIM DEWorPlNT PROECT
SINR    NCOuIrs COST M T
(Y I000)                                    (   aD,.)
z Total                                     I Toa
Z Foreign  km2kw h
Local   foreig   Toul   Exdhi   Costs   Local  Fo niM   Toal   Emiu             Cats
I. INJESTNEIT COSTS
Al CIVIL  lS                         40342.2         - 4,342.2          -      10 10.873.9        - 10473.t          -     1t
*. 3IUILIN6S                         93,454.6 21,337.3 114,4U!.t       19      30 25,18. t  5764.8 36,5.7           19    31
C. EOUIPWNT                          28,206.3 36,637.5 65,045.8        57      17  7,603*3 99,9.3  17,532.*6               1?
I. IENIE                              1,135.6  6,693.1  7,83*7   I 5            2    306*1 164.1  2,11l.t           a       2
l LAU_                               31,646.1        - 31,6461          -       8  61.529.        -   ,52R.9         -      I
F. NATERIMLS                          16,243.9  14339.3  30,S63.7      47       8  4,378,4  3,365*2  6,243.6        47      5
6. ESEMCM An TISION EASES             1,467.0        -  1,467*0         -       0    39S.4        -    3954          -      0
H. LOCAL TRININS                      1,778.4        -  9,778.4         -       2  2,366.1        -  2,366.1         -      2
1. 1054EP     TUAIUIB I8 FELLNSHIP      193.5  1,741.7  1,935.2         0       0     52.2   469.5    521.6         I0      0
J. TECUEICAL ASSISTIMf                   77.2    694.5    771.7         0       0     20.3   137.2    266.4         90      0
Total INVESTNEIT COSTS                 221,546.7 01.694N0 303,240.7       27      78 59716.1 22,01?*.  11,736*0        D      76                    F
Pimaical Continimcin                 20,540.1  6,6N.6 27,146.3         24       7  59536.4  1,71M.3  7,31W.         24      7
Price Contineias                     62U,758.1  21679.6 84,437.7        26     22  6,339.3  2,196.2  I.W.5          20      3
Total IICUIUINS CUTINEICIES            304,345.0 109,932.2 414,927.2      27    107 71,0.8 25,9"4 97,40.3             27      n
zzz~  mmz zZzzzaa=  Zuz   mzx' umamazz           a              
II, EtiET COSTS
A. MIIKINS CVITIL                   61,569.7  22,M.3 94,342.0          27     22 169595.6 6,136.1  22,733.7        2      22
Total RECORM   COSTS                    61,569.7  22,772.3  4,342.0       27      22 16595.6  6,130.1  22.733,7        V      22
Price Con.ninmoiff                    9,906.6  3,664.2  13,570.8       27       4    969.7   357  1,320.4           2       I
Total INCLUINS COITINCEUCIES            71,476.3  26,436.5 97,912.8       27      25 17,565.3 6h496.  24,0&2.1         D      23
-C-3zUzg   9t213 zzzuu  gizs   zz2zu  mai   sommam au
Total DASELINE COSTS                    263,116.4 104,466.3 367,582.7      27    100 76,311.7 23,1530 104.4697          7    10
Phfsical Contin u -pigs               20,S40.1  6,60B.6 27,146.6        24       7  5,536.4 1,731.3  7.317#7         24      7
Price Contingencis                     72664.7  25,343*8 96,006.         26     15  7,356.0 2WSJ   99114.60         2Z       9
_ _ __                            ___0_1__ . _ t :U
Total PROJECT COSTS                     376,321.2 136,418.7 512,740.0      27    132 89,206.1 32,496.2 121,732.3        D     116
c-1 9--S -_             - -    -      -  -
Norch 20, IM 15:5.1



04046
J1^16X1 ARICITlDE oEWIMttE MJECI
%Sran Amnt bo P,oa.t Cgwwnt
(Y '000)
Jllu  klo 1u511  II                                                                OYA11 LAKIE IIII
AOUJIt ----- --------------I 1 0 40t-t                                                                                                                          Gost
P16     OGMTIIt   FEDl   PMIT"                                             YEA        P16      AEIATIC    rEE6         ,tiRew .g lg,ow,trafi                           _lin*__
PRODUCTIO  POtTRY PitSSINI PRDtESSTIU  FMEST9! WSjCtTtI t    E  WSTRT  119E4E         PUtTIDO  Pat RTY  POtESSIE  POtESSIN6 Aam IIE             -A teeOmal usistt@         cWitil    TOta       I      _
1. IzESTIF,  Ct851
A. CIVIL WKS                                 -        -      173.4           -  1,634.5      4.757.3    332.9      1.400.6          -       It         5.0    1'69.0    3.01.6                              -           -   40-. .2  10.0  4.034.2
t. WILOIIUS                           17.573.2  6,659.0    4,223.0    3.022.2  1,978.7        904.7    402.3    10-048.2   10,36.6 17.I23.3    3,-96.5   13,34.0    10.137.3                          5,200.0           -  114,041.9  0.0 11.644.2
C. E13300                                100.0   376.4   22,614.0    1,750.0  1,470.0           73.3        -    11,015.5       620.0  2,811.8   1O.031.7   11,62Z.2       1,212.1                      519.2           - 5 .0.l  0.4  S6AM
0. WIIIClE                                   -        -    3,440.0       00.0    469.0         111.5     75.0       660.0           -        -       630.0    2,201.5      2,141,7                          -                713.    0.0       0.0
E. LAM                                                                      -  7,325.4            -  3.606.9    20.333.6            -                    -                  290.1                           -           -   1.4.  10.0  3.164.
F. mIDIOLS                                 t.O        -          -          -  3,154.8            -  1,640.4    21,433.6        694.4        -           -          -      364.4                                                        .7 2.M.1
6. llE0N AM  EXIEIS  [MEIS                   -        -          -               -          -          -          -           -         -                -          - ~                                                 -   147.0   0
R. LtU  1T10119                              -        -          -                                                                                                                                      ,7.4        , -   07104  0.            0.
I. t0S03 t1001PA   6   IU rMOMUIIP                                     -         -          -          -                            -        -..2                                                                       -   0,910.2  0.0    M0
J.  talmca. SSISIPIItE                       -        -          -                                                                                                                                                              M-77-  m.    0.0  .0
Total 06MS100  Whlo                      11,/o.1  I,93.4   20,452.4    4,652.2  16,032.4       5,926.0  6,107.6    73.0I1.5    11,671.0  20,737.1   15,5t4.2   29,235.3    47.01.1                      15A1.5             -  3240.7  *.0 276.8
1I. NLINUMI 15IS
let.l I-II- i--- -                                                                   - -  --          --- -       -         -           - --                  -                                            -           .0     342.0  0.0       0.0
toa    0 1C"S                           -                               -        -            -                                                                                                                    A -- 043.   04.30.0  0.0  0.0
Total 3SEt100 CtS75                       17,761.2  7,035.4   26,452.4    4.052.2 16,032.4      5.26.0  6.107.6    73.811.5   11,671.0 20,737.1   135,43.2   29,233.3    47,33.1                          131.5    01,342.0  W78.7   7.020  146
Pinwcal ContinUweWI                     1,757.3   66.9    2,701.2         477.2  1.556.3       574.2    403.1      7,313.1    1,035.7  I.n.3        1.491.3    2.2n.0       4,42.9                        W.0             -  n1,41.   0A        0.0
Prsv.  CmtAdne wqs                      4,203.2  1.5 5.2    6,M22.4       750.6  4.952.1      1.524.!  2.23.3    30,141.4    2,442.0  5,000.3    2,747.7    5.546.5    11,134.4                         5.14.7    1.3.70.0  9140.5  2-1  0.61.5  O'
- - _                           _  _   _                                   __ ------ -             -        -       ------                                                                                - 
Total PlOJEtT COSTS                       23,721.6  9,26.5      ,434.1    60110.0  22,540.0     0,025.9  8,44.2   111.96.0   15,149.6  27,32.7    39,732.3   37,0.9    620.4                              24anI       9924 .   127.740.  4.7 3110.3
For    C                                3,109.9   302.0   26722.0    1.277.5  3.003.6          433.3  2.19.!    24264          32361.0  3,359.9   11.505.5   17,514.        4,111.6                     4.02.9    2036.5  14.?   6.1  o.?
-- - -     --- --- - --      - -      - -                        - - -- - -    - - - - - - -    -- - - - - - - - - - ------ -   ------------  -    - - ---- -- - -
6a,c41 20. 109 15:56
Dztn
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1.



CHINA
JIA16XI A6RICULTURE EYENOP'ENT OJECT
Project Commnts by Year
Totals Includird Contingencies                       Toals lnludire Cetiwigtis
(Y '000)                                            (Uft'NO)
99/90        90/91    91/92   92/93   93/94   Total   89/0   9/1    9/2    92/9          4    Total
s======__ --_==3__*======== ==fl3=    =_   - = s=as.  am   s
A. JITAI IASIN AREA
1. PIG PROINCTION                                     9P622.6  9,090.9  5,006.4        -       - 23,721.9  2,419.9 2P1423  1,123.2         -       -  5P64.4
2. AtIATIC POULTRY                                    4,199.7  3,293.2  1,813.6        -       -  9,296.5  1t053.2   776.1   406.7         -       -  2236.0
3. FED PROCESSING                                    12,921.9 24,514.2        -        -       - 37,436.1  3P246.3 5776.9           -      -       -  f9,2.1
4. AP4TIC PILTRY PROCESSING                           4,775.1  1,312,9        -        -       -  6,068.0  1,200.3   3W.4          -       -       -  1,509.7
5. FOSTRY                                             7,110.7  5,216.7  4,995.4 4,426,5   901.6 22,540.8  1797.5 1,229.3 1,95.6  948.3  166.2  5246.9
6. AKCULTIE                                           29910.2  2,472.6  2,643.2        -       -  9,025.9    731.5   312.7   592.          -       -  19"7.0
Sub-Tot;l JITAI DASIN AREA                              41,530.1  45,900.3 14,350.6  4426.5   901.6 1079109.1  10,439.7 10,616.6 3,216.3  946.3  16.2 25,609.1
B. JIDENZIEN AEA
1, FIOESTRY                                           1,381.0  2,273.2  2,649.7  2,172.4   467.7  8,944.2    347.2   535.7   594.2  465.4   96.6  2,039.1
2. TEA IIPROWYENT                                    129564.6 23,765.3 26,849.6 26,755.5 22,031.0 111,966.0  3,158.4 S5600.4  6,021.4 5S731.7 451.4 25"62.3        0
Sb--Totul JINDENIWN AREA                                13,945.6  26,038.6 29,499.3 29,927.9 22,498.7 120,910.1   3505.6 6W136.1  6615.7 69197.1 4647.0 27f101.4
C. DOYAIG LAKE AREA
1. P16 PRODUCTION                                     8.031.3  4,690.5  2427.9         -       - 15,149.6  2,013.9  1,105.3   544.5        -      -  3,666.7
2. AQUTIC POULTRY                                    IO,109.4  1I1355.4  6064.9        -       - 27,529.7  2,541.3 2,676.0 1,366.1         -       -  657.4
3. FEED PROCESSING                                   12,42.9  7,139.4         -        -       - 19P7M2.3  3,176.1  19632.4         -      -       -  46W.5
4. AOIATIC POULTRY PROCESSING                        19,345.2  17,724.6       -        -       - 37,069.9  4,662.9 4,176.9          -      -      -  9,039.6
S. AICKULTTIRE                                       26,575.1  21,932.0 14,513.3       -       - 62920.4  6,680.4 5,144.8 3,254.6          -       - 15,66.6
Sub-Total POYANG LAKE AREA                              76,703.9  62.741.9 23,006.v      -        - 162451.7  19,291.5 14,765.4  5,159.4      -         39,226.4
D. researchdextension,training  nd technical assistance    6,486.4  8,343.6  6,556.6 2,969.6      - 24,356.2  1,630*5  1,966.2  1,470.4  636.2          s570.3
E. increental working capital                           62,972.5  35,040.3       -        -       - 97,912.8  159M04.7 8,257.4         -      -      - 249062.1
Total rPIJECT COSTS                                      201,538.5 178,064.7 73,412.5 36t324.0 23,400.3 5120740.0 50,662.0 41I961.8 16,463.? 7,731.5 4,633.2 121M702.3
=_======== =_======= ======== ======== ======== =_=e  =ss==zr= mazss==  _nazu  _som  9*8w  58
March 20, 198  15:58                                                                                                                                                  D .
tD )



JIAN6XI A6RICULTUE 3ElOPNEAT PROJECT
Project Cowents by Year
(V '000)
as Costs                           Ttul
s9/0    s/9    91nm       92/93    /4          T    tSo 'O)
=_S===_=-Z==S  =SOm=  W=S5R  W            _ g    _
A. JITAI SASIN AEA
1. PIS PROIIUCTIOII                                   7,060.4  69596.8 39304.0        -        -  179761.2   4.77,4
2. AITIC PIULTRY                                      39449.3  2,389,7  1196.4                -   7,035.4   169.3
3. FEED PROCESSINK                                   10,594.4 174O58.0        -       -        -  2,452#4   7669.1
4. AEMTIC POILR  PROCESSING                           3,992.2    960.0        -        -       -   44U52.2   1,57.9
S. FORESTRY                                           5,936.6  3,785.5  3,222,9  2,680.0   505.5  16h32.4   4,321*4
6. AhIIITURE                                          2379.8  1,801.3  1,745.7         -       -   5,926.6   1,597.5
Sub-Total JITAI DASIN ARA                               34,014.6  339391.3  9,468.9 2,600.0   5055   0,0404  211579.6
3. J lDlEN   ARA
i. FORESTRY                                           1,132.5  1.649.6  19748.0  1,315.3   262.2  6h107.6   1646.3
2. TEA IIOV1EIENT                                    10,241.4  17,263.7 17,719.6 16,220.9 129365.9  73,411.5   MMiSf '
Sub-Total JIJIWI  AREA                                  11,373.9  18,913.3 19467.6 179536.2 12,623.1  79,919.1  21,541.5
C. DOYAIS LAKE ARA
1. P16 PROWCTION                                      6,646.3  3,423.2  1W601.6       -        -  11671.0   3,145.9
2. AOMTIC POILTRY                                     9,344.8  9,344.8 4,047.5        -        -  20,73.1   5,39.5
3. FEED PROCESSIN1                                   10,345.2  S,198.0        -       -        -  IS543.2   4P16.5
4. ASTIC POILTRY PROCESSIN6                          15,P04.6  13,430.7       -       -        -  29,235.3   7W1.1
5. AIIMTtIT E                                        21,803.4  15979.7  9.600.0        -       -  47933.1  12M7.7
Sub-Total OYMAI6 LAKE AREA                              62,944.4  469376.4 15,249.0      -        - 124569.7  33W76.7
D. research,extmnsionttrajnins and tecimical assistance    56589.8  69460.1  4,663.9  19m.8       -  18461.5   S,030.1
E. increental morkinr capital                           56,372.0  27P970.0       -                -  64,342.0  22M733.7
Total DASELINE COSTS                                     170,294.6 133,111.1 489|49.4 22,194.0 13,133.6 337,5M2.7 164469.7
Physsical Continencies                                 10,406.5  9,024.4  4,422.9  1,"7.6  1,297.4  27,140.6   7317.?
Price Continiencies                                    20,937.4  35,929.2 20,140.2 12,132,3  8,9694   96,085    9,914.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      2019539.5 178.064.7 739412.5 36,324.0 23,400.3 512,740.0  121,7M2.3
=:==szz  =zz222zs=*_ wamU3=  zUUU wUUUi  U3U3         inIn.
Fortion Exchno                          ~~~~~~49,220.2  63t694.4 11,302.3  7,630.2  4,571.6  136,416.7  32,496.2
- For-  ---    --     -                   -------                   -------a               ----       -------                     -  -j
March 20, 1I99 15:58



jmil inmui         w in' 4*1,
to. a. I"ax~i su 33194325
IT ml
puhaff
0110*0                                             ha auto.                                    totsis bebe   C9*Uu-45               lb
.  -   W                       -                                                       in.in~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot V.a I m
3. 945    a          CE                  a       I5993KM 5915.1ft   44          1.43     11.294 55,.l9 115d713  1,05,             -3.*.4   DAI      7.39t. 19.71.3,  WMA4.               411             1.5        9    25
2. la* 44K44       oEM   OWL25 3         IN         3    In9    a                 25     54.021  4.45.  4.44.9  1445.1               19.2"9,        *4564.  11.120.? 24912.9           -  2.4ft       91.           9 
2. Soso"94 FM4 via                                         I                        I     323.6       -    35.4                        1 - 52.6          -        A    .474.    36A.                  I1.           9 
4. 36   ~     I    -       44 FMO       FM                 2      -                2       91.2       -   12.4        -           -    152.4             -    3.1           -      -         MA.      4  I&A        0    or
5.f4wsaK FE5 993 70                    744- FM    o:: -so                                                              -A               MA                 1439         -      --        51164.9    (A 9.6        I    2
I. 1m 159525 Wm                                    45    34    25    -          1,44       S.4'A  4,M.  4,316.1 2,10.4    -       -19.71209         4.31.6 S31.379   b.40.1     -      -3310          9  1.1        a    2
2. k443 INR                                        24  22    3 45 -V             914      31.14  4103.3  so.05.  2,1942.             1 - 1.0.4      6,1314 1.10.1 4,127.6       -      -   444        9  1.4        6    or
41.  Dm                                  a4         to     9      4               n  71  336.04  1.25.5  1,113.9  27.6     -         1.01.4         3.W.2  1.42,    139L2       -      -   .44.       9  4.3        9    2
M.   Omi a4                                     2.43   2.2   3.40              I M 5.3     .3   4,9464 4.31.4 2,90.4               1  2,42.24      5.524,1 6,715.  2.431.9    -          15.101.9   91#.3         0    25
Sm.ilift     9m                       94                                                   4              .                            .                      .62.     -           -      -    624   959
llo-Il"  a m 9441    M134L4.49.20.530.0143.41.3    -                                                                                   3.232.9        7.996.3 1,72.152.994.?                42.33
3.39M4 PM-                                                9     2n42 -M-   922             o)  2649.1 3,44.5  I'M's5    -         - 6.6.3           2,Og.4  ba49.2 2.741.1      -         4OA*4                     9    to
7. MOPED9P                               in       Ss1   226                       1  91     2.9  321.14.  7.30.4     -                ,216.9        3.51.5  2.43.3       -           - -  4.134       I OA          0    W5
z. nou    56                             4        Sof   19           -      -   .01        1.44    MA.   ??.*                      1- 5411.           *.t    MA4.4          -          -    11.134   9 9A4         4    W
4. toI (460                              IN        it    6.1    61                M  19    S.69    5147.   341.1  36.2.1    -       -f1.44.           212.    WA.   436.5       -      -  5.343      9   U.         I    W5
CT BUMI                                 IN       US    III       -    -    .    216       22.9  1.901.0 5.319.9IM.                                 h 1.25.  ,5153416t9         -      -  3.25.      9  1.         9    W
6.    444449                           fro         -                                             2261   63.1   ?"4.3                1.974.?          W54   04.? 3,499.         -         5.64       9    9        9    M5
7.      I  on 144 44   2 M44  "493  I   a4        M3    M3    374    -                   5.622  13,13.9 3,N.71.   911.9    -         .639.?        t1A64  3.6442  5,1164      -          4.44.2     9  1.5        4    W                                       I
0.,1 "Ia 44193  PM                                 369    Its     -    -    -    32       5672    93.    65.9           -            I-P3.9.        3 -10.    46a"-                       (411.5      9  1.5        4    W5
91919 iMNWM 5In4 FM                                M6    14      3     -    -    2        Is1.v.  S.43.2 3.21.6  5.53.9    -      -   .154         I5.31.9 .5.4 1,.31.4                   %W-1.6.     9  9.4        0   25
14. Low Wm to 4435194                    3         5631   39      -    -    -    240      '1.,&  2.47290 3,643.5        -         -   .314.)        2?.fl1.3   ..11. -.  44y1.                        9  1.4        9    W5
9-69. F    MU33                                                                                   ts-25   11.05.3 5,345.4    -      - 71.411,           1515.  494.5l 1.0.t                 I -  419.
3. F334F449I SW TM.                    FORTS                                       I           144    -   624.4      -    -      -     4299NA1.                                             MA.       994A         9    25
4.93347139324M4TO43                    946194       -      6            -          5      226.            363.       -     -           314,4                  444.4      .      .           .    614  994          9    25
1.43)w   441     To3                   MEN1!       -      6      -    -           14     3.          - 2312.2       -                 W.2                   t4o.?      .-         .-    443.7       I OA          9    25
4. wm                                 769!3                      -    .    -      3                  -   79421.#                      M5.                    MA31       -  -          -    MA.4      C4S          9    W5
9*1. 9"MNlL-5496110.                                                                                                              -  3.MA  Mg            - 2.53    -.u.         -           -    MA 4.
s.w        44m                          94199        -             2    -    -            1.9                   1.13.9           .9        9                -        -2 .11)     -      -31.    4                         25I
2.9433salvo                            9414 M                                              33l        -   5.#                     -     36                    6.9        -      -            4.9      0    9        9    W5
2.6.133 form4                          94615        -             -    -            3      2          -    3.9       -    -             A.                    44.4       -           -      -    449.  4    4      9    W5
3. 9144  is Dm336u                     a459                            2           a9 i7t1           -   13.    S34. 943..4 104  h.46.4                       1139.1    MA4.  995.4  I 3.3.5    .4    I    I       *    W5
3. ID4   ID7436 far1m97                             -                13    2        ?     "9.2        -                7.5 1.55. 1A24.6   53.I                 WS4.    349   2.2  2542    44A         9    I        9    W
1. P1041M                              9414         -      -      S     -    -               l2.      .        22.9        -           226.9                     -   u.1        -           12          W9             2
%b1.66  To       m                                                                                           514.3   014.24410.93,321.4   2,314.9               431.  1.52645.44.1.6.la"   1.36.
and (4                                                                                        5P.363E."4.?733,956.344.93,-2.v34,1-4631.2 30.   4444415lM    .45366
Mi                                                                          56.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f--12  .6M.F 53,14M.9 994. 3,11.4 (49,33.3  42W203431.4  4.64473 1.31143IMA.90.164
brlatOh ,-.1989    17:04                                                                                                                                                        -   -



ANNEX 2
-66-                               Table 7
CHINA
JIANGXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD/IDA                Disbursements                       Disbursement Profile /a
Fiscal Year/    Semestral   Cumulative   Cumulative             Year/          (%)
Semester         - - (USS million)   -             (%)        Semester
1990                                                        Year 1
1st                  1.0           1.0             2        1st                    0
2nd                  4.0           5.0             8        2nd                  5.4
1991                                                        Year 2
1st                  7.0          12.0            20        1st
2nd                  9.0          21.0            36        2nd                 29.2
1992                                                        Year 3
1st                 11.0          32.0            54        1st
2nd                 11.0          43.0            73        2nd                 61.2
1993                                                        Year 4
1st                  5.0          48.0            81        1st
2nd                  4.0          52.0            88        2nd                 91.0
1994                                                        Year 5
1st                  4.0          56.0            95        1st
2nd                  3.0          59.0           100        2nd                100.0
1995
1st                  1.0          60.0           102
/a Disbursement profile for China - specific investment loans
Completior. date: June 30, 1994
Closing date:      December 31, 1994



CKDM
JIM1I AIOJLTLAL DEVaJ T  PWOJWT
Training a.d Technical Asaistance
Phasing of 1-snnths
by Col ndJr Y.Sr
Total             Total               --- -- -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - -
Description                           an-soth.          Cost (UU 000)           1969     1990      1991     1992              Proosed Cantont and Locatioss
O.oroa  Training
A. Study tours
A. anie_l  Mab  8urnau/Stato
FP.  A hDC %tchnical staff         4.5                 29                4.5                                          Pit and poultry soloction. breaing. a agnogmat
U. 5"oherlanJc
2. 14; I l/p  1 nt mnadrs
hch'l and  et  staff               4.5                 29                4.5                                          Fre  and poultry pr.ec ingt.S.  Da_al. Mlh.
S    I. SFF  A For. Rsearcrh
Ina%. staff                        4.5                 29                         4.5                                 Comearcial forestry planning VW  _mnssnt
U.S.. Cinads
4  Jisngai Too Co  staff               4 5                 29                         4.5                                Toa--plantation mnegaant A pra ing
Sri Lana.
5 Aquatic Prod ur.ar. A
Fish fo- staff                        4                26                            4                                Fish brooding, far mn _g.mnt4t ry
6. ADC A Iloal ADC staff
Stato  for. S faoJ sill owre         10                65                            5        5                       Pooject and finencisl _nsgnt - Indio
D. Advnced (4-5 _D) training courses
1. Tch'l otaff-Stt  F. rs.4 6A u        6                 32                  6                                          Solection and broading of lan asl pigs
U.S.
2  Rsearch  Inst /Fih farm staf         16                 97                 6        12                                 Fish fea  nutrition, fish diyseass. wstar oal-
ity a  yst,ar
S. Forset    eseasrch Inst  A
IP    chnical staff                  12                65                                     6         6             Salactin/planting trials for slash pina
Commrc.al forestry  msg_Usnen .S.
4  Jingdo*an AhC staff                  12                65                  6                  6                       Tan Plantation rnetion. t_  Prs_ ing-S.i Lamks
S. Count, food will staff                3                 16                 3                                          FPod will  nn     a St-US.. Canda. DwAn_i
6  Processina plant/ADC staff                             32                  6                                           Quali ty control standards - LU a
Subtotal                          19                514                 36       30        17         6                                                                                                I
Consulting Ser.icas
A. Tecnical eaprta in linst ock
fidari_e. for-atry                     5                65         2        2         1                                U.S_ Canada. Mangary. Math
B. Pod n.utr,itionist                      2                 26        2                                                   U.S.. Daneark. Franca
C. Project _nsseant. mrketin
research and forcati no
"_i-tance to JDC  taff                  4                62         1        2         1                                U.S . Thaliond
D  PraZeina: Li-atocll,c ta.
forestry                                4                82         2        2                                          U.S., Math.. Sri Lan. Portugl
Subtotal                           15              1i5          7        6         2
Loel Training
A. Start courses for heads  of SHn    12400               1004      1437     3553      4729     2J111                      Training in brasing. cultieatien and p       sie
tactniqms--at Cownty Tacknie_l Sreise  ;tetma
I. Month-long courseas for township/
count,y t.chnicians                 5041                817       50      1553      1941      917                      lIkitritian and diseasepran,n-rfcul  ek
Sar.ice Station*
C. 10-12 o co rse  for higher lea                                                                                                                                                                              i
technical staff                     2580                524       607     1065      384       3?4                       Selection and hroading. dises pr.oent.on. fare
mnagoa_t-Jiangai Agricultural Wilsierwit
Subtotal                       20021               2545      2034     6271     7054
Total                 20125               3064
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - --_-      -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - -  - -  - -  - - -   - -



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
am                                             able 1
t    2-        4       5     6-7       0       916-11         12 IU            14-1   16      17V    -19      2
3m  .41 ,vgWU.(    khi,u                350  wo0.0  smA.  iMO  SMA.  570.0  570.  V70.0  $M0.0  57o.  570.0  57 O.  57A.  iwO1 570.0
oad0 M                                           D".mufA  kie. - .        -  dohw    .  6.4    .                                   6" .4    -  . 0.0
ad) _  pugUom1   A,0d                                    to- .       -       -      .o       -       -   mo          -       -    -          -       - in..
_       t okm I_    4w 4V)             114N.  2M-.0   0.0 2ON   3000.0 2360n.0 231.0 30.0 2                 . 30.0 300, 33.0                2-#    . MA  =60
o itm l o(  .1A1)                           - 70.0                  -  7M.          -       -  MA           -       -   730.0       -           M.
am.,                           230.0  1610.0   3 60.0  16.0 .0S   360 10.0     160.0   3 60.0  36.0 .0I   360.0  160.6  360.0  360.0  360.0  360.0
tutu                                   1130,0M2316 0.0           MU9UM W.023160.0 23160.02394.02360Z2160.0234n03200210.294.  231 Z60.016Z10.0 23940.
WTS
1u11611e6160.0                                       -                                        . -  -  - .   .   .      .       .       .
(t4  10)                                1040.0       -       -  1240.0       -          2040.0       -       -  2640.0       -       -  1640.0
tu,nu  t.l  .71g                        06500110022.061.064.0 262w tl.lsosllo|1l. . l  16160. 260. 16100.0 16160. 160. 16100 t.0 1610. 166. 16100.0 llo 
ustalim, VW LiUM                         1700   340.0  340.   340.0  340.0  340.0  340.0   30.0  340.0   30.0  340.0  340.0  340.0  340.0  340.0
l to                                      16.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0
iiawl11g                                 175.0  350,0  350.0  350.1  350.0  350.0  350,0  30.0  350.0  350.0  350.0  350.0  350.0  350.0  350.0
itamt for u,iUrd eaital it 11.342         0.0  150950 15.0  16.1509.0  150.   1 .  156.01509.  165.0  29,0  1509.0  165.0  1509.0  1509.0
m.,gu u  W12                             115.0  231.6  239.4  231.6  231.6  23.4  231.6  231.6  239.4  231.6  231.6  239.4  231.6  231.6  239,4
pIgtigi   g53)                               -       -       -       -  113.0  1197.0  1150.0  1138.0  1197.0  1150.0  112500  1197.0  1158.0  1150.0  1197.0
Malt                                  17514.0 126.  1570.4 20540.6 2t720.6 19767.4 21706.6 190.6 19767.4 21706.6 19no6 197674 21706.6 2o6 19767.4
at i       Wmb       tlineid           -5934.0  4597.4  569   2611.4  3439.4  4272.6  1453.4  3439.4  4272.  1453.4  3439.4  4172.6  1453.4  3439.4  4172.6
ivt itW  Ito  mivwd(703)                4310.0       -                       -       -                   -       -           -       -       -           -
,pmmt(14.G4)                                 -  144.2  1440.2  1440.2        .       -       -       -       -           -       -       -       -       -
Mt ftinin                               4310.0 -1440.2 -1440.2 -1440.2       -       -               -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
nit In   sftt tinwirs                  -1624.0  3149.2  3M.4  1263.2  3439,4  472.6  1453.4  3439.4  4172.6  1453.4  3439.4 4172.6  1453.4  3439.4  4172.6
Ihat uw i.ift(ut)                        368,0  365.0  365.0  36.0  365.0  365.0  365.0   35.0  365.0  365.0   35.0  365.0  365,0  365.0  365.0
to tuu to         k( I w/Iud)             -4.5     1.6   207       3.2    9.4   1124       4.0     9.4   11.4    4.0       9.4   11.4    4.0    9.4   11.4
Nog. 20 2.  10259
Intenil bitn of bits. It Ebt Stiu
IWm?                   74.37
smI="U  0,3 AT 121
PZ. _ 0703 _          5270
1                 160.124.74   141H00U         -1II.
04                 1.212903   -17P.26S.     -16562.24M
A                  2.029   -16.515.91         -753.25S
cmT               144,027.07   U63072.04        13.12
Wa    W15         163l07.06   144P027,07       -11 .6
NA Pmg Vil  it CC 12  a 29.44.2
lteA   ba of btam  a 74.42
two lW 1u       t Vt et Mu11  * 14.1I



ANNEX 4
-69 -                           TableZ
CHINA
JIUM6XI AUZICOLItAL DEVEIJPUNT PRO.ECT
Finscit Prices of Impu
Impte                                               Unlt                      Price (Y)
Duck I lIg
Brceding Duck                                    *                            8.00
Local Typo Meet Duck                             se                           0.60
Big Typo Meat Duck                               *                            1. 0
Laying Duck                                      *                            1.00
Gosling                                              *                            1.00
Poultry Fed
Duckling Food                                    kg                           0.70
Production Food                                  kg                           0.66
Pig Feed                                             kg                           0.70
Fish Food                                            kg                           0.76
Sow                                                  *00 - 460
Fingerling                                           kg                       6.0 - S.C
Fish Fry                                             kg                          26.00
Fodder                                               kg                           4.00
Manure                                               kg                           0.08
Urco                                                 kg                       0.625 - .675
KCI                                                  kg                           0.22
Compound (N-P-K)                                     kg                          0.044
Paddy Oraln                                          kg                       .4 - .64
Rico Bran                                            kg                           0.24
Whout bran                                           kg                           0.40
Flnseh                                              kg                           2.26
Soyben Cake                                          kg                           0.90
Rap_sod Cake                                         kg                           0.46
Limetono                                             kg                           0.06
Vitelin                                              kg                           4.00
Maize                                                kg                           0.62
Labor                                               uday                          6.00



ANNEX 4
Table 3
-70 -
CFNM
JIAXI MAtCJLTURAL DK LPUN  POJICT
Plmaslel Prie_ of O0tpu
Outpus                                               Unit                         Y/kg
i.t Duck                                               kg                           4.00
Meat Goose                                             kg                           4.00
Cull Duck                                              kg                           8.60
Egg                                                    kg                           3.80
Black bone chicken
Day Old Chicken                                   *                             1.15
Commrcial Chicken                                 *                             6.76
Lean Pig                                               kg                       8.0 - 4.0
Cull sow                                               kg                           1.30
Piglet                                                *a                           90.00
Fish                                                   kg                       38.  - 4.3
Pearl                                                  kg                        2000.00
Corcentrate Feed                                      kg                            1.60
Formula Foed                                          kg                            0.74
Chicken Dung Manure                                   kg                            2.00
Boneaa I                                               kg                           0.70
Frozen Duck                                           kg                           65.0
Frozon Pork                                            kg                           4.60
Pr-seud Salted Duck                                   e                            14.60
Preorved Egg                                           *                            0.30
Down                                                   kg                         260.00
Feather                                                kg                          16.00
Quilt                                                plece                        140.00
GOrmnt                                                piece                        90.00
Fresh Too Leaf                                         kg                           1.30
Crude Tea                                             kg                            6.90
Refined Teo                                            kg                          11.31
Tom Carton Box                                        *                            10.00
Pulpwood                                               8                          200.00
Sawlog                                                oa                          480.00
Rel n                                                  kg                           0.66
Rosin                                                  kg                           2.70
Rosin oil                                              kg                           3.63



ANNEX 4
-71-                                     Table 4
C4RPA
JIA:4QXI AGRICULTURAL DEVEPLBIT PROJECT
Amn. Not It
Invwestment     FMR to Al I      Afttr Oebt       Leon Repeymant
Sel-          it_ore_s         Servicing /a     Ported (Inc. Grm)
(Y'WOO)            (5)           (Y'000)             (yr.)
Pig Production
Provincial Pig Fare             2,21.0 02                          984.0                10   (1)
120 Sow Breeding Form           1,040.0               1S           200.0                10   (1)
232 See Breading Farm           1,460.0               82           523.0                10   (1)
4 Sow 00 Pig Houahold               6.2               74             4.2                 5   (1)
12 Sow 160 Pig Fiutnhold           16. $                             7.4                 6   (1)
Poultry Production
1000 Laying Duch Fiouo hold         7.J             >100            11.                 1
J000 Local Met Duck Household       8.6             >100             4.7                 1
8000 EBig Mat Duck Houaehold        8.6             >100             5.7                 1
6O0  Meot Goose Houshold            1.1             >100             8.8                 1
Blockbone Chicken Form            no0.0               16           160.1                10   (1)
4000 Breeding Duck Form           112.2             >100           116.6                 5   (1)
Fish Production Form /b
1.2 ha New Pond                    J7.4               67                                10   (6)
1.2 ha New Pond A 80 Pigs          40.4               71                                10   (6)
1.2 ha New Pond A                  44.6 06                                              10   (6)
1000 Laying Ducks
I he Modified Pond                 11.6             189                                 10   (5)
1 ha Modified Pond A 80 Pig        18.6              110                                10   (6)
1 ha Modified Pond A               17.4              116                                10   (6)
1000 Laying Ducks
166.2 Cage Culture                  7.6               67                                10   (6)
3.88 ha Fish Borrier                4.7               14                                10   (5)
1 ha Net Enclosure                 16.1               44                                10  (C)
200 ha Pearl Culture            4,260.0               52         2,907.0                10   (6)
Feed Mille and Processing
20000 t Concentrate Feed        8,034.0               88         4,186.0                10   (2)
16500  t Formula Feed           6,097.0               29         1,764.0                10   (2)
5000 t Formula Feed             1,641.0               81           562.0                10   (1)
2000 t Formula Feed                62.0             >100           240.0                10   (1)
600 t Formula Foed                 67.0               76            00.0                10   (1)
Chicken Dung Fertilizer         1,248.0               20           816.0                10   (1)
Animal Protein Fee                964.0               40           462.0                10   (1)
Poultry Processing
3.88 million Frozen Duck        9,962.0               27         8,706.0                10   (2)
1.66 million Froxzn Duck        6,642.0               22         1,722.0                10   (2)
0.06 million Frozen Duck        2,216.0               J5         1,126.0                10   (2)
0.14 million Pressed            1,69J.0               26           616.0                10   (1)
Salted Duck
Jin Moet (Frozen Pork)         2,670.0               15           614.0                10   (2)
Eiderdown Gorment               1,757.0             >100         0,046.0                10   (1)
Foreetry
6706 ha Plantations            24,180.0               24        88,200.0                20  (10)
Rosin Factory (J000t)           4,409.0               51         4,146.0                10   (2)
Teo
1 ha Toa Iprovemwnt               10.7               16             8.0                10   (2)
Primtry Too Factory (120t)        565.0               17           106.0                10   (1)
Refined T-o Factory (SOOt)        666.5               67           56U.0                10   (1)
Packaging Plant                 2,681.0              460         2,68o.0                10   (1)
/a Interest rates are assumd to be 11.84X for loans maturing In one yeor or less,
12.761 In one to thre- years, 14.43 in three to five years, 19.24% In five to ten years,
and 24X In >10 years.
lb Net Income of fish production households shown In Annex 4, Toble 6.



ANNEX 4
Table5
-72 -
JIMINI APRItJLTURAL EVLOT PIJCT
Fish Prodwto       sld - L Ises
Income Bore          Cntract Fee  Iace  After
Contract F.e          (Y)       (X) Contract Fee
(Y)
1.2 he NM  Fish Pond                19,900            5,190        25   14,710
1.2 he NMw Fish Pond A 80 Pigs      25,180             5,680       20   19,500
1.2 he Neo Fish Pond A 1000         82,590             7,200       20   25,890
La ying Ducks
1 he Modif ed Pond                  16,0S0             1,500       10   18,560
1 ha Modified Pond & 80 Pigs        19,520             1,600       10   17,640
1 ha Modified Pond & 1000           22,000             8,870       15  19,280
LayIng Ducks
lo2 Cage Culture                    4,060              1,040       46   2,210
8.38 ha Fish Barrier                 8,910             1,100       so    2,810
1 ha Net Enclosure                   6,010             8,606       so    2,406



ANNEX 4
-73                                        Table 6
CHINA
JIANOXI AGtICULTUlAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Conversion Factoro (CF) /a
RtIl Transport                                                       1 SO
Road Transport                                                      0.90
Other Civil Works (Bldg..)                                           1.80 /b
Consumption Conversion Factor                                        1.18
Elctricity                                                         2.00
Coal                                                                0.75
/a Baond on the IBRO's Economic Pricos for Project Evaluation in China
/b Based on conversion ?actors for steel, timber, cOmnt, "mchinery, unskilled osbor,
technical and supervisory labor, and other traded goods and services of
1.0, 0.9, 1.4, 1.6, 0.57, 2.0 and 0.7, respectively.



OIINA
JIANOXI AORICULTtDAL DEVELOPWENT PROJECT
Economic Prices of Inputs (Y/t)
1969       90       91        92      9U         94       95       96        97       9         9     3000
Mill Gate Price
Fishsal                        2,2W                                                    2,20                                           2,2W
Soybean Cake 1_                  759      751       748      786       727      719      711       on       624       "1       557      494
Rep_d CoUke 5                            8U4        W0       76      871       867      86$       841      819      296       276      252
Vitmins                        4,000                                                   4,000                                          4,000
Limeston.                         59                                                      *9                                             at
Paddy                            604      691       578      56S      661       6U6      526       519      51t      gOt       502      496
Ricebran  J_                     230      227       223      220       217      218      210       206      201     17        192     1s
Maize                            233      2"        290      276      272       2U       264       269      274      27J       2U       23
Wheat bran 4_                    SW0      578       366      360      a56       84       59        642      84       an        S5       85
Fresh Too Leaf                   960    1,009    1,086    1,067    1,096    1,125    1,154    1,176    1,196    1,219    1,201    1,26
Resin                          1,#6                                                    1,66                                           1,68
Egg (10,000) No.               1,610    1,687    1,666    1,695    1,720    1,746    1,776    1,79C    1,17    1,3m         1,t       1,t79
Feather                       11,200                                                  11,200                                         11,200
Live Duck                      2,792    2,640    2,688    2,936    2,965    3,081    5,079    8,115    5,151    5,137    8,225    *,259
Live Pi                        2,726    2,772    2,813    2,6       2,910    2,966    5,002    8,040    8,077    5,115    8,162    8,190
Farm-Gate Price
Urea                             an       906       923      949      969       969    1,009       99U      on       976       667   OC7
Phosphato                      1,069    1,122    1,166    1,166    1,220    1,258    1,236    1,295    1,804    1,314    1,825    1,882
Compound 6_                      901      926       948      972      995    1,019    1,042    1,049    1,0"    1,0"    1,070    1,077
Paddy                            601      537       675      S59      544       550      516       611      607      502       496      493
Pig Feed                         696      569       561      572      568       66C      546 U42           U5        584       50       52
Poultry Fed                      780      720       711      701      691       62       672      6"        660      65        667      641
Finh Feed                        69       62        678      669      62        865      69       640        81      621       612      Sol
1J Approximately 905 of soybean economic price
2_ Approximtely 461 of soybean economic price
J_ Approximtely 40X of paddy economic price
4_ Approximtely 40X of wheat economic price
6_1 681 phosphate and 37X MOP



CHINA
JIANCXI ACRICULTURE DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Economic Prices of Output (Y/t)
1999       90       91       92       93       94       96       96       97       OC    190        2000
Ex-aFctory Price
Concentrate Fd 1_            1,425    1,420    1,415    1,410    1,404    1,393    1,394    1,866    1,842    1,817    1,301    1,266
Formula F d 1lJ                677      6e       659     e6o       641      6e2       623      617      612      6O0      001      GM
Frozen Pork                  4,966    5,089    5,121    5,206    5,297    5,369    5,452    5,516    5,560      ,645    5,70?    5,77S
Frozen Duck A Coose          4,695    4,778    4,362    4,980    5,006    6,067    5,166    5,225    5,26      5,846    5,406    6,406
Salted Duck                  6,069    6,196    3,880    6,466    6,601    S,737    6,672    S,976    9,076    9,176    *,200    0,'2C
Presrved Egg (10,000 no.)   8,898                                                   8,396                                        8,89
Down 2_                        175                                                    175                                          176
Chicken Dung 2_J               140                                                    140                                          140
Boel                         1,566                                                  1,66                                         1,6
Refined Tee '                6,640    6,323    6,906    7,089    7,172    7,806    7,441    7,541    7,641    7,741    7,641    7,942
quilt (piece) 2J                9                                                      9'                                            "
Garmnt (piece) 2_               68                                                     68 
Rosin                        2,232                                                  2,232                                        t,22 
Rosin oil                    2,470                                                  2,470                                        2,470
FUrm-G_te Price
Fish                         2,680                                                  2,660                                        2,0ti
Pig                          2,714    2,760    2,306    2,853    2,399    2,945    2,991    8,027    3,068    8,064    3,184    3,170
EN                           2,860                                                  2,660                                        2,660
Cured Duck                   2,460                                                  2,460                                        2,460
Meet Duck & Cooe             2,760    2,327    2,375    2,922    2,969    8,017    8,064    8,101    8,1"    3,174    8,211    3,243
Pearl (kg)                   1,726                                                  1,726                                        1,7*6
Sawlog (m)                     529      584      53U      548       548     552       557      5U       66O      Sol      662     3a8
Fresh Too Loaf                 971    1,000    1,020    1,056    1,067    1,116   11,475    1,167    1,1 6     1,210    1,28     1.254
Resin                        1,627                                                  1,627                                        1,627
PuIpwood (ml)                  140
1_ IBaed on 55.53 of poultry feed, 8l pig feod and 6.5S fish feed.
2_ Non-traded goods (financial pria- X SCF)
8J Awuming a price premium of aboout 15X over ordinary Chinese black teo.
I! 



- 76 -
ANNE( 4
0DMa                                       Table 9
JIAMII AGRICUL1MAL DEW MMWT POOJgCT
re_ Flinnial _i legemic Piesc Structure
Fi.eacls! Price    -      -P------                  e-f Ptr
is"                 Lo                  2M8
beatity           Price    Coot  Price    Ceet         Price    Coat       P11g.   Coet
(3)     (/hg9)                (')  ('f/Ik)    C(Y)      ('/kg)     ()       ('/hg)     (Y)
CFlaM     Feed
P_l            le      ~~~180      2.n    8ue    1.1?        84      I 1.7        841     I1 .17      841
s c   o  am         o., o    no     o.n      m             71 |i1 onI 0.4             147
C~.                      ~:40  400  0.4    104   O."        in                  144        0.21      100
Vitami                 10      10o          4.00    400    4.00      400          .00    400          .00     400
Limeete_                S       sO         0.00        I   0.04        2        0.04       2         0.04       2
Contingenies                                                          is  /a               n/                  20 /e
Proe_elag Co"                                       174             100                 100                  100
r2007            m   b              in /b                11 /b
n-Mill Price                                       1,800 I         1,874'              1,848                1,11
Fermel Fe w 
Concentrate Fed /d    10       100         1.62      102 1    so     in                  I             24     124
atdb                  s0   go              o.u 0    154    0.g1      in         O.U S'   'I         0.10     1g0
P1ad                   1       ISO0        O.                                             to         0.20      44
lice Pollards          15       500        0.24       86    024                           1t 4         tO      so
lWle  ~3                 10ar   U I0  0:14      ':1 0.87        10      iL 0.2       n      I2.2          2
t    re"               10      100         0.40       40    0 8r      U        18O.        l           8 O 
Cointinne110                                                             /a  I             4 / c                4
oceelng Cost                                         901              2                   9 2    1             2
margin                                               11  I             4                   so 50
Ex-will Priee                                        740             587                  54 U6U
FISH FMED                                                  t
Conentrate Fed                                                                              1 
Fl kneel              7.6       76         1.1       171  21.27      178       12.27      IT         2.27     178
Sey -    Cake          26      10          0.00     2U4    0.76      196        0.71     1so
0"_ CUke               U4      0440           0      2o4    0.80     250     10:80       280        0:.:      16O
VIailn                1.42                 4.00             4.00                4.00                 4.00
Contigloencie                                         1.1              14    I                14     .00
Proceeeing Coet                                      '               100                  100                 100
Marlgin                                               as              I                     0                  67
Eu-lMIl Prige                                      1,000             8 18    I             77                 784
Ferais Fee                                                                      1              
Concentrate Feed       80      80           1.02     U0     0.08     Sd         O."       U7      | 0.70      2
aize                   25      250         0.52      180    0.28      78        0.26       65        0.2       78
Contlngenclea 86           no0         0.40      144    0.87     1l8        0.88      11,        0:85     11
Preceesing Ceot                                       90              C2                   C2                  *2
Margin                                                81              St                   581n
Eu-ill  Prige                                       Om               on                  047                  *02
POULITY FMI                                                                      
Concentrate Fee                              1...                                                           
Flll                   20      20O          2.2      460  2.27       4U 4       2.27      4U 4       2.27     4U4
Seybe"n Cake           40      400         0.00      80    0.7       804      I 0.71      2184        .4      190
R.peeee  Cake          1       150          0.46     118 I  0.88      0         0.8       90        0.18      O8
Vitamin                10      100          4.00     400    4.00     400      I 4.00      400        4.00     400
LIneatens               5       s0         0.05        8   0.04        2        0.04        1                   1
Ceontigele e                                           17                       2 1               I 
Precowing Ceat                                       174 1            *                                        n
argln                                                 721                                  n      1124
Ex-Mill Prlce                                      1,600           1,520                1,47J               1,JS
Feremla Feed 
CecetreteFood          15      150                   1 2 48    1.54    l        1         1127                207
M dele                I40      400         O.        2U                       I   I4              I 0.2       L
11e1"           ~~~~~~20  200         0.62     104     0.29    Ug       1 0.26       92        0.2        U s
lICe Pellards          1S      to0         0.24       86    0.24       6      T 0.n1       22        0.10      80
Umeat srae             10      100         0.40       40 10.87        n       1 .u         u          .ff       c
Centinnclie                                            6 I             |                                        I
Preceeeing Ceet                                       so I2It5
,12s   co                                               I             of                   44 e   I             s
Eu-Mill Prlec                                        740             780                  0 78                 41
/apprexlatly 21S of totl marul east.
/b  Apex tely 1001 ever estrlol aed proeeeing coet.
/a Aprexuiutely IS .1 total mterIel c  at.
/d  Icluding traneport cest of f10/t, edj mted by CF oef 0.0.



JIMA I AatOtLTIPAL  EVEPf PROJET
cnoic Price Derivation
Duck     Porkl  Lean Pig    Duck/Goose   fAcin/    Preeer,ed   Preerved  Selro        Fiehasl 8one_1l   Perl    Block
(Frozen) (Frozen)   (Live)      (Lv..)       Reain         Duck     ES ft         (S)                          (kg)      Te
Not Trd Status                        X        X        X           X            X           X           X         t4                   K        X         X
Average Unit Value of
Export and ISports (190S.US6/t) /n        1,422    1,S00      791 /q      806 /q                 2,280 /q                125 /q                                1.600
YER  196 _   CE
c.i.f/f.o.b. Shanghai: (US/t) /o          1,410    1.467      8S1          8!0         69!       2,406        1.024  138             S4S      48       S6     1,729
(Y/t)           5.20    5S.517    S.061       S,154        2.678       8.927       3.79        510       2.022    1.792    1.9??    S.416
Port Va,rge  A Distributors Margin /c      (46)    (426)      298         (301)       (250)       (B21)        (859)      5          2C0      (179     (96)    (S
Transport-Port to Wholesaler /d /p          (2e)     I2         8          (8)         (2e         (2e)         (29)      20          29       (29      (29)     (2
-Nill to Whole" ler /a           1s)      (         2          (24)         (18         (1          (18)       13         (18)     1.:.               (16)
Ex-Factory Price                          4,65s   5,044                              2.292       8,089       3,393       601               16                 5.17,
Processing Adjustmnt (2)                                                                74                                                                        26
Proceming Coat. lIe_ by-Product Volo                                                   684 /r                                                                  1.864
Hill-ote Prico                                              2.726        2.792       1.211                               576       2,268              173          0
Transport (Farm - Hill) /d /p                                   12          12           9                                48 /a        e                  9      Oa)
_, ic Far_-Ote Price                                        2,714       2.790        i,202           0                   mg        2.252        0    1,726         e
Financial Price                           S.300    4.600 3000.0-4000.  4.000            60      14.500       3,000       460       2,260      786    2.000    1.600
VEM 2000 IMCE
c.i.f/f.o.b. Shanghai: (S/t /t           16m      1729       on6        9.6           695       2,796        1,024      144        S4       48       SW    2.068
CY/t5lb    0    0   6   .415    3,M l   S. *67             2,578      1030         3eo799     re 542     2,0U2    I'       I,2 on  eTim
Port Charge  & Distribubore Hergin /c                         ((200                                                                          (1798    (1 6
Transport-Port to d,oleealer /d             te        29       tJ         t3           t           te9                    61          2Q      t2        n5       (3s
E41i11 to Wolesaler /e        Si4668                           (24)      2,C1 N         (18       S           (13)        (18)    1)        (15      (0_
Es-Factory Price                          5.11      .2                                           9,82        3                                  o6, O
Procasino Adjustment C5)                                                                74                                                                        26
Processing C_ot. I_   by-Product Vlue                                                 6U4/r                                                                    1.654
Hill-one Pr;ico                                             8,190        3.269       1.211                               61l       2.2611             1,786    1.2W
Tranaport (Farm - Hill) /f                                     (1          (12)         (9)                              (16)/C
iconomic Farm-Cot. Price                                   3,170       3, 1         1,220           0                   62m       2,2 1674                    1524
Financial Price                           5,300    4.00 I 000 0-4000.   4,000          660      14,500        .000      460       2,250      786    2.000    1.800
/a World Bank Price Foreat-s. October imU. adjusted to Horch 1969  onetant prices.
/b Exchange rate of Y3.71 - US1.O0
/c Port charge of Y26/t. adjusted by CF af 0.70. plus 95 distributora -argine.
14 Approui_etly 960 km by rai l at O.02/kt, adjust by CF of 1. 
/a Approxi_tely 100 km by road at Y 0.2/t. adjusted by CF of 0 .9
/f Atroxitely o0 km by road at Y 0.2/t.
/ Thai 6 brokenei, fob Bangkok.
U.S. cif lotterdm
/i U. S. D. 2 yel o. fob e    Culf Pe t.
i Canadian MD. 1 Wstern Red Spring (OM) 13.31 basis in store Thunder Day.
fao N.W. Eirope.
/l Sulk, fob U.S. Culf.
/a fob Vanower.
/n Jiengsi Foreign Trade Corporation.
/a Heat pricm  increaee beed on U.S. bef import Price index; eaelog price increase baed
on Week African SAELLI ltog price index; presrved eq, rosin, bnasel and pearl
prices gre based on current fob Shanghi; fi_Il price in based on current cif Shanghai;
tee price increse  baae  on Leudon Auction price index.
/p Approuietely 801 highr for live pig sad duck, but 806 lwer for eawlog on a cubic  eter basis.
Ic 1967 fob  nd cif reectiv-ely.
/r Auming SOS roein, and 206 roein oi l at Y2470/t.
/I  Asesing 10 mn-day for fel ing and houl ing sad Y 1/eS for transo rtation adjusted by ct of 0.90.
/t Price per 10000 units.
X - Eport
" - Imort



ANNEX 4
- 78 -                                                           TpXIe 10
Page 2
JIAYI AMlCULTPt#L 0. O#W Mt JB.T
Fa    IeC PriCI Deriv tAi n
Rice/Paddy    laybean           tlz e      wheat         Urge         DAP
Net Trade Status                             X             X            X            H            M          t              H
YEAR 141119 PRICE
World MPe rt Price (U.S.1/t) /S                              29                        179          172         217
OceanfFreight                                                 s0                        46           10          84            34
C i.f/f ob. Shangh i; MeAO/b)                 2J/           26 9/h       104 /i       226 /J       202 /b      261 /I        126 /m
(Y/t)/b       1,I060           97          au67                      748         932           416
Port Charges A Distributors Margin /C         (112)          (107)         (12)          a6 6s                   101            s9
Transport    - Port to Wholeslesr /4            (29)          (29          I2            29           29          29            29
- Mill to WhVolealers /e          :.e)          (le          (16           is          (16)        (16)          (16)
En-Factory Price                                  1
Proes& ing Adjusteent (1)                        70
ProCessing coat. Ioee  by-product value          20
H;ill-bat  Price                                610           648          211          937          679       1.0oc           572
Transport (Fore - Mill) /f                                                               (9))
Ecoroic Fare-Gat. Price                         01                                     92(                       (9,)           Ie)
Financial Price                             340-640         1,600          520          828      640-676         220           soo
YEAR 2000 PRICE
Vorld Market Price (U.S.J/t);a                               212                       162          1i9         277           107
Ocean Freight                                                 30                        4e           30          34            34
c.i.f/f.o.b  Shanghai: (USl/t)                237           162          104          20e          219         311           141
(Y/t) /b            6S0            673          367          770          6ll       1,156           524
Port Charges   Diatributors Margin /c            97            78e         (52           87           91         121            65
Transport    - Port to Whol*ealers /4            29            291         {29           29           29          29            29
- Mill to Wholee lers /e           16i          (16)          16i         (16)         (16)        (18)          (18)
E.-Factory Price                                 J7
Processing Adjustniet (%)                        70
Proceosing cost, leos  by-product value          20
Mill-Gato Prie*                                 502           649          266          667          946       1,823           633
Transport (Farm - Miltl) /f                      (9)           (9)                      ea4)(9)
Eeono-ic Fars-Cute Price                        498           540           9V 9a9 e                        9  1.114           626
Financial Price                             340-640         1,600          320          525      640-675         220           500
/5 World W ank Price Forecasts, October 1968, aijusted to March 1969 constant prices.
/b Exchange rate of Y3.71 a U531.0 .
/c Port charge* of Y25/t. adjusted by CF of 0.70, plus 9s  distributor'. aergins.
/d Appro, imutety 960 km by rail at YO.02/t, adjust by CF of 1.5 
/9 Approniestely 100 ik  by road at Y 0.2/t, adjusted by CF of 0.9
/f Appronitatoly 50 ka by road at Y 0.2/t.
/g Thei 5% brokene, fob Bangkok.
/h U.S cif Rotterdam.
/i U.S. No 2 yello-, fob Gulf Poet.
Canadian  1o  I Wesetern Red Spring (CMRS) 13.8S  basis in store Thunder  ay.
fob NW. Europe.
/I bulk, fob U.S. Oulf.
/s fob Vancouver.
/n Jiangli Foreign Trade Corporation.
/o Meat prices increase based on U.S. beef Import price index;  ewloz price increso.  based
on West African SAPELLI log price indeni presrved ef   roelsn,  oneal end pearl
prices are baaed on currant fob Shanghai; fishmeal price ie beeed on current cif Shanghal;
tea price increase based on Loudon Auction price Index
/p Approliastaly 30J  higher for live pig end iuck, but S0  ioer for sealog on a cubic meter bmals.
/q 1967 fob and cif respectively.
/r Aasuming M0M rosin, end 20S roein ol lat Y2470/t.
/a Assuming 10 men-day for felline and haul Ina and Y 15/dB for transportation adjusted by ef of 0.90.
/t Price per 1000  units.
X - Export
M - Import



79 -
ANNEX 4
Table I I
UMM MK"N-4 01111111 40 0 PO SINMOR
M v
S        4         s         fd        7         8         9          Le      11        12        13        14        Is        16        IT        II        19        14
mur
KO-0  I"   MA  ULO  W-0 01111,4111, MAI W:: 1"   MM  MIA  0:  0    Id::  ML   ::::  Ul::  111::
WA  IMM WA  W." now 1010 M                                           W.0 own us-Of us:  M:: M                                    1W.:                 he  fts  to
Rs of la                                           . 40.0    4010    0.0    4111170   W.*   41110A                 WA        40.0    66.0    41141.111   W.*    40.0    414.41   416.0    410.0    411.0    414.0    410.0
lm    "Moon   a(UM)                  2.15      3.10      3.70      2.11      5.71      1.70      1.71      1.10      1171      1.10      I.If      1.10     S."        SIP$      1.74      SJO       Lft       5.76      5.76      3.141
ISO  oil ofeft%WAL4W                    -      2.6       5.14      sm        S.70      1.11      11A       1.14      11.1111    3.76     5.10      SA       SA         11.10     3.74      LM        S. R      3.70      11,79     3.74
low  *&AM                                               2.6       &M        $A        3A        SJ#       3.11      3A        SA        9.10      3A       IA         SJO       3.7#      3.71      3.70      I-N       1. if     1.71
0.0          -                           .11                                   046                                     4.0                                     0.66
cmi                                                                          0.0                                     I 0                              -      0.0,                             -      ..W,
ell. =Lftw)                                                                                                             -                                                                                        it
wow, NW ,                                                                   1.                                      0.                            0. ,      4. ,                          #. ,      0. ,      ::N       0.,       0. ,
a a    n    n    a    a   a    a                                                         n    n    35                            25   a              na
"2"IM    Vft)                                   O-U      LA        11-111    1.2       O-N       I-V       1.3111   11.111     6.8       6,1111    4.3       0.0       CO        I-S       Ln        9.2%      0.23      0.25      6,25
lawwm  sft)                                        - 41.13   4.8   4.8    Ca    0.8   1.2   11.11   1.3    IM    4.25   0.8   I'm    4.8   1.2    Cn    CIS   C25   CM
oft   ism(t)          2=.N   4940  41,62.411  41411.0   W2.0   460.411, 419.411 0611.0   460.0   09.0   4,12.0   UU.0   469.0   4116240  41,111,101  46414111 461246  411162.0   4"2.dl  41142.69
:11:                                   MIA    4W    0   46=         4W::   41621            4ig-0    W2.0   4ig-0   469.0   4W.41, 4idAt  09.0   *62-411 4662-id  4462.0    46,12.6111 4662,66  41162.1,111 4662.611
Ila:a nv o av   M, a 33v-w np.n nv.w nv.w nv.n nv.w nv.o =.* 2um, m,,w zw.u nv.,, nrls zm.w
tool        ms m to             233       O"       1""  M  11,162.8  1149.31 111,62.111 1169-N  11,60.811 114611.31 114U.X  IIW.31 1169.28 INA2.311 MUM                                       11662.20 ILW.2011662.21 116,62.16
.,ICVON  VI                           2         2:0      2.6       2.90      2.95      I.99      Ld        3.01      3.11      1.13      3.11      3.17      1.11      3.11      3.11      3.17      3.17      1.11      3.17
Im    .11 bmwit                  W7.13  19M.16 P04I                33M.36 IM .n  343115.11 3,41111.64 311111.49 11M.32 WM.N  11040M    JOW.11 3614111.17 30W.17 300.17 W                    .17 300.17 1,19,19.11300.17 3690.11
"'ll        *M   .."                                         .   400.06                                  4111.401,                               OWN                                    4011.0          -494110
C., 1 ::  I         mt t)                                                                                         410.49,                                                                         4"A
cull to  - I"    lo(IP                                                               246,01,                                 I46.1111                                246,0                                   244.0
tGUI M  IM    -MMAIM11)                                          4":a*   400    2%                       4ft..               14a::          : 00.0    MA            246.0               499.11   4".111  246.0                   410.4101,
1.11 to  NW                                                                          2n:                                     223                4411.411   446.61   U3,86               446.63   446,63   223.ft                 44.63
103.47   2,111.141  M.1;   M.14   206.141  mi, 14   "11.14   3,16.14   W.94    06.14   M.14   246.14   20644   M. 14   M.14   246.14   Mt. 14   206.14   206.14   206,14
103.47   M.14   M.14   206.14   2k. 14   MM                106,14   M.14   W. 14   2416.14   20144   M.14   21101.14   206.14   M. 14   266.14   261.14   216,14   246.14
51m     103.32   143.32   IN-32   101.32   141.311  143.32   Isix             103.32   143.n    163.32   1.3.32   103.32   IfIX           103.32   IOI,!2   103.32   103.32
twatt,o kwit                       103.07   3P.N    463."   110-W    $13-30   313-P    III1.311'  1113.99   515,99   513.99   M."    515.110  515.9    HIM                     515."    515.1p   1115.59   SIS."    511.".    Us SO
total mwtt                        6430.22  M IX    MW.n  34EI4.41347N."  IM -63 W".23 3ag.71 311,14111,54 UM-39 DW."  IM1,31 IMI,P  VM.63 31464-77 rm3l.P  IMI-19 3770.63 r7414.77 Mli.P
ivaroory CUT
&TA.50 d1111,91
14.40 IN.&II 131.911, ".111
16.24 29-311
110COPIN    ASIMMINa                27 0
an.1111, OWN =.Is 66.m
POWTIO cmt
2.79      1 73      Lm        1.75      3.04      I'm       I,n       LIPS      3.44      1.75      1.75      1.75      3.64      1.15      I.m       1, 71     3.04     I 1       II's
2.79      IM        1.13     1.15      1.64      lln       I.?$      1.71      3.14      1.11      I'n       1.75      3.04      1. 15     :,15      I ?s      3.04      I. 15     I.'S
IKIi mi M :                                              21"       1 JS      1.73      1.75      3.14      1.75      1.15      1.15      1.64      I.TS      1.75      1.73      3.64      1.111     1 75      : 19      LOA       1.71
2mi-O   14A         1431.31  1431-11  M .n   1431.0   1431.11  1431.111  Nk, n   1431.9   1431.36  1411.38  M M    1431.*   143116  1411.59  24%. 17  i431.50  i4m.W
t': ""I                           nu::   14111.111  1433.0   1431.9   M .n   1431.911 1431.3.  1431.0   M ,n   1431.111 14311-is  mi-se  24k.n   1431.30  1411.39  1431,54  2486.12  1431.54  1411,56
-t ,00  W)                                      i14J."         W."    717.911   711.36  124.0          717.0     717.111,  717.31  1246.0    717,39   117.18   717,111  1246,61    711,50   117.50   71,%   1246.40   11 7. St
toui IKII Mi                      221-   vu-N  4m.0  m-P  4im-n ma-  410.0  m-N  un-n  awits-72 #w.o  m-s  on.77 4w-n 4to-o  m."  wis - 72 ". 72 4104,48 210-04
'All, tft                          II-10      23       23.0      23-0      23-0      23.4      73-0      23.0      n.0       23.0      23.44    23.0       23-46    23,01,   23.0        23.40    23.0       23.04    23,01,   23.00
t/m                                                n.w         n-o       n-o       ma        n.w       n.w       n.w       n.w       nm        n-o       ii-o   23."      23.ft    23.0111   23,40          23.04    23.00    MO
11.39    n."       n.W       n-0       n-0       ZIA       III.*     n.0       23.0      BA        23.0      23.04    23.4       21.0      73.00    21.64    23 0        211"
907.0  IM4::  110  ::  1014::  .10:::  104::  '100::.*  .111141.0  1111114,411 111114.0  1111114.0  IM4,0  111114.0  1814.09 1014.06 111114.14 1814.0  1014 01014.00 IN14,00
1111114    M 4    1014 0  11111114,4111 11111114.0  111114.4111 1111114.0   ION4.0  1014.0  IN14.0  111114.011 1014.0  iNI4.0
floW I                                             -  4111.0              114110.1111 94311.111, 94110.49  11431.0    =       '4111:41411 141110.0    "11.0    941311,011 94311.1011 1411,41111 NS1.401  '.34.1011 9414.0    0434.0    9410.00
"07::  111101:1,0 41M    0  IIM:*   II::  00:0  4M                                                          4711111.111 4ME.0  41111111.0  4NO-68 411111,411 4" .11111 4?M.N  OW N  471119.0
to"  .,: M,, VI,                     4          a         #:,      4V                  0"        4.2       4.54      .34       0.2       6.9       Ca        4.53      1.13      O-U       olss      0,53      0.53      1. S3     0153
fm    Mt                          %".V  160-17 N011.3111 30017.111 36M.46 30417.11 1102.67 11111111.44 M Y-31 311311.97 W411,74 24M-51 24VMSI 24M.31 24M-51 24M.51 24PI2.51 24M    11 24M.51 24M.5,
611KII111111411)                    64-34    Ill-12    XPA          W-54    347-n         M-0       M.V?    30-66    3ii-If    30.32    V1.4111   3R.31    3".11    377.09    J74.15    JN.II   37q.31   317.09   374.0    I".11
I WA  m    Mt                     ?"I."   no.10 3pos.v  mm.of 114117.4111 311G.76 mg.$11 pw,V  = 9,76 301111.91 20411111M    3F?12.V  WW.54 WW U  PM.76 9712.12 29767.54 ?9744 - 31 M36.76 272100.112
toui mi                          141"AR  PM-P  OW-6  111411116.12 314"A    31143.76 31,19.41,11 194111.11 NW.?6 ihu."  11411111,79 W12.2  2076734 717611.31 "M176 willn  2970,54 "765 11 2M .74 2731-02
,W% wwtt                         -130.0  -711114.4111 -330.11  3W.74  3M.S    11111111.07  5341.19  03.13  ad.X    66P.X   7tW.I4  M1.47  1163.0    7941.31  U411.01  1211.47  2113.15  -43 11  12411,61  ft%.57
Im"MI 'an  of Amit."  or on  it,ao
1ITOY                     21 an
9NIrmto win AT In
4,,1111111,   SVM IN        mmm iK
VKK           WLUE    cwm
ell                224,061.31              4         -?.M
El                   1,60. 1,                    -1,114:64
124                  1.314.74   -    at? "          _411a EM
C,                  14,163,31    wm.lo               IWAR
,.C                 9113111.P    224,#l7.17            1 in
Mk  111111IFtIS    Im9m..    212."4.0                 .?.M
M% Cam             21204.41  2N,M.4                   7.6n
4a  p $W         veie  44 412  1  Id.2111.4
1 !A I Raw of WAM , 21. n
crow tm"lwt bu of bwm - mn



E1 miim m 34Rct
I aillim
1      2      I      4              A      7       I      9      t0     11     12     IJ      14     I5    1       17     Fe    9t       a      21     a       3
nl 11.2   32.3   47.2  51.5   54.5   54.1   33    51.4   57.4   57.5   57.9   59.2  59.2    9.0   .11    59.2   59.2   3.9 3.6   3.3    ILI   11.-
1NO                             47.9  30.9  145.9  151.3  154.0 151.3  157.7  13.9  136.3 161.2  162.3  142.3  162.3  I.3  12.3  32.3    .3  16.                    2.3  au    I.       3.9        -
P1111                           19.5    4.1   62.l   76.2    .7   Q.3   M2.1   R.31Q.4  Q1.4   340   1.5   Q.5   Q9.5                   U.5   22.5   U.5  U1J   U.1          .    34.6   3.3
RD         3                      -    5.3   *.2  13S.0  151.2  11.5   13.3  14.5  14.9  145.2  143.4  141.7  34.7  141.7  141.7  141.7  34.7  141.7  t4.?  36.7                     -      -       -
Raw                               -    7.2  116.1  36.   34.3  393.3   m.a  1"9.7  3.2  1a7.5   ".6   9.7   9.7  399.   399.   399.7  9".7  1.7   W.7    .7 -                          
-      -    4.3    6.1    S.?    8.1    8.7   10.3   12.4   15.9   19.4   21.4   22.6   2P.2   37.9   W1    9.4   32.4    2.4  216.7    .1  3OL2                46
IE                             -4.4   -3.4    5.0  133.3   31   5.7   62.3   15.    67.7  71.3   71.4   72.5   72.5   72.5   12.5   72.1 n2.5   72.1   72.1   7 n.    6.4    U.5
Ma  IBM                         71.2  11.4  4.   616.9  67.0   M.$  7             731.9  73.]  73.0  737.0  73.   7.   ?4.   7.2  74.2  770.3  7M0   7MY  919.7  WA                        U 7
M                               13.5   10.1    5.1    0.1       -     .       -       -      -    0.3    0.4              -    0.3       -                   0.2                           -- 
F121              104    9.                    4.           -        6.7    6.7    3.4       -      -    6.7    6.7    3.4        -      -    6.7    6.7    34        -       -      -      -       -
fPml                            2.1   30.2   30.1    0.7    0.3    4.1    3.        1.3    0.2    2.9    6.4    2.1    5.9    0.2    1.0    3I    2.0    0.4          -   -.;    .1         -       .                00
FM    Q1111110                   3.6  2n.6    0.2       -       -      -      -       -      -      -    1.7    1.3    .2    1.5         -      -       -      -      -      -    9.4       -                        0 
NO.3   SIII                     27.6   14.1    0.4    0.1       -      -.9    6.2    0.-                                          -      -      -       -      -      -   -13        -      -
F11111111  ~ ~0.7    L.7    9.3    5.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.0    0.3    0.0    0.6    0.0    0..0                         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    03    0.0   -0L2
I3A                             12.3   30.2   21.2   24.4       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -    1.0      -      .9    I.1    2.3    2.9              -              -
IIUI O T  3F2.6  104.4   51.1   31.1    0.3   11.6   10.3    4.1    0.2    3.2   23.7    1.0   3.6    2.0    1.9    2.0   11.0    6.9    00   -1.2  4-.2    0.    -.2
M                               13.4   31.2   6 .3   6.0    4.3   6.4   47.0   46.0   41.2   47.0   6.9   ".9   46.1   41.5   6.7   44.9   4.4   6.9   6.7    NJ.2   316                            -
NOR?                            51.7  310.3  142.9  35.9  M4.3  1426   141.         .2  I3J.3  139.4  13.5 3IJ36.6   I.4  134.0  334.0  133          4.0 3a   .   336.0  IN.       7.2   3.1        -
F31                              9.l  13.5   43.9   6.5   49.3  3S.    4.3  46.9   6.4   6.1   47.9   47.    476    7.2   47.0    7.4   47                  47J.   OA    0.0   176    4             -
ffO     1                         -    2.3   U.9  13.I   3277  32.4  325.2  I1.4  M1.   3I    136.2  336.7  116.7  I33.7  116.7  IU.7  116?  U67 IU37  1307                          -      -       -
NO ?T                             -    3.0   36.9  113.4  135.3  136.9   M.   10.1  131.4  142.7  133.1  144.4  16.1  24.3  16.1  14.1  36.4  14.   3.   16.                         -      -       -
f93G 0.'    0.5    4.5    6.6    3.4    0.2    7.9    3.2    1.9    9.7    9.6    9.1    3.6                                          113.5    31   34.    14.9   104      3.L    M.    3.       3.
IE                             -1.1   -2.3    1.4    1.5   34.6   42.4   4.2   6.1   41.2   4.1   47.3   4.0   47.0   6.    47.0                  04.    6.    G.0   3164   3.1    3L.   Ia
T3         M       03AIUM       U.3  31.   W.6  49.7  126.t  34.9  33.4  32.6  33.1  54.1  541.7  147.7  54U7  513.9  S.   544.6   U.7  311.6 5O1   369  140.7 n.9    3
L2 tNT                         24.9  37.1  44.3  59.6  52.2   66.5  533.7  357.3  5D.3   37.3  5J.4  5u4.7  512.  51.9  14.7    1.6  '2.2    .S  NO.3   37   13.    7.    3.
IS own                        -121.7  -91.I   23.1   0.1  14.6  134.0  145.0  156  164.0  372.7  166.6  374.6  13.4   M3.   20.l.   W7.6               1   MA   2Y6.4  3S           .   2S.3   U4.7
t 3
bb=d~~~~~ bi fbmo tir
_|_ _l"IM 



- 81 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
CHINA
JIANGXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ooerating Guidelines for Jiangxi Agricultural DeveloRment Corooratio
1. Operational Principles. The Jiangxi Agricultural Development
Corporation (JADC) shall:
(a) conform in its organization, financial structure and operations
with the pertinent regulations of the State Council, including the
regulations dated August 14, 1985;
(b) maintain consistency in its lending operations with the policies
and regulations of the Government of China concerning terms for provision
of loans by financial institutions to farms and rural enterprises;
(c) follow, in its operations, principles of financial management
designed to maintain a surplus of operating revenues over operating
expenses sufficient to safeguard the financial viability of the DC; and
(d) observe the principles of investment decision making consistent
with the most efficient use of social resources.
2. SDecific Guidelines. The following guidelines are accepted as
practical expressions of the above operational principles, and should be
applied to all JADC operations:
(a) Capitalization. JADC should maintain a minimum registered capital
as required by the State Council regulations dated August 14, 1985. As the
JADC increases the size of its debt, the amount of its capital shall be
increased so that the ra.io of capital to debt is generally not less thar.
1:5. The capital increase may be derived from (1) retained earnings; (2)
equity investments, including investments in income-generating fixed assets
(measured at book value ex-depreciation), provided by government, other
economic entities, or individuals; or, for the purpose of these guidelines,
(3) loans received from government which do not carry fixed interest
obligations or fixed repayment periods, but are repayable on terms
determined by the actual future financial performance of the JADC and
subject to approval by the JADC Board of Directors. "Debt" refers to any
loan or credit bearing either fixed interest or fixed maturity other than
short-term credit for working capital purposes. Adequacy of capital in
relation to debt shall be reviewed by the Board of Directors annually, on
the basis of financial performance of JADC during the preceding year. In
asseasing the financial performance of JADC, the profitability of projects
financed by the JADC will be taken into account.



- 82 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
(b) DisDgsition of Net Earnings. Distribution of JADC net cash
accruals shall be determined by the Board of Directors only after adequate
provision is made for depreciation of assets, lending or foreign exchange
risks, and working capital. Net cash accruals under the Jiangxi
Agricultural Development Project, due to differences in timing of repayment
of loans by farmers, households and enterprises to JADC, and JADC
repayments to government, may be used by JADC, after the above provisions
are made, primarily to finance development similar to that undertaken under
the project.
(c)   Investment Decisions.   The decision to finance or participate in
the financing of any economic activity other than those described in the
Staff Appraisal Report of the Jiangxi Agricultural Development Project
shall depend on a prior assessment of its technical and financial
feasibility, which will be conducted using techniques and criteria
described in the Project Appraisal Manuals of either the Agricultural Bank
of China or China Investment Bank. In the case of agroprocessing
investments other than those already appraised by the Bank Group and for
which financing is to be provided under the Jiangxi Agricultural
Development Project, the feasibility study must be reviewed and approved by
the Bank Group; approval criteria include a satisfactory study of product
market prospects and a minimum financial and economic rate of return of
12%.
3.       The above guidelines will apply to prefecture and county level
ADCs and any proposed changes in these guidelines will be made in
consultation with IDA.



-83 -                                       ANN   6
Table 1
CHINA
JIANGXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Annual Net Trade
in Principal Project Outputs
1987 compared with 1986 (%)
Net                     Annual
Trade                        Net
Status                     Trade
Commodity      Unit                             Volume        Value (US$m)
Live pigs    '000 head    X                     3020 (-3%)   202.0 (+4%)
Live poultry '000 birds   X                    41150 (-3%)    71.8 (+2%)
Fresh/frozen
pork        tons         X                  99964 (-4%)   172.1 (-2%)
Frozen chick  tons          X                 16768 (-40%)   25.2 (-32%)
Fresh  eggs   m  eggs       X                  1109  (+4%)   42.9 (+17%)
Aquatic prod. tons          X                218210 (+31%)  702.6 (+47%)
Tea            tons         X                 174279 (+1)   362.5 (+11%)
Feathers       tons         X                 19527(+102%)   93.1 (+97%)
Rosin          tons         X                205102 (+25%)   85.9 (+35%)
Pearls                      NA                NA              25.1 (-38%)
Logs           m m3         M                6.46 (-10%)    529.1 (-13%)
Pulp           tons         M            683,343 (+31%)    370.2 (+83%)
Source:  1988 China Itatistical Yearbook (Beijing: SSB, 1988)



- 84 -
Atzzax 6
Table 2
CHINA
JIANGXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jiangxi Annual Not Trade in Selected
Project Outputs
1987 compared vith 1986 (%)
Not                    Annual
Trade                       Net
Status                    Trade
Comodity       Unit                           Volume          Value (US$m)
Live pigs      head        X                  186,775 (-8%)    14.04
Live poultry   birds       X                  130,000 (NA)        .23
Frozen pork    tons        X                      977 (-10%)    1.25
Froz. poultry  tons        X                       92 (NA)        .11
Fresh eggs     tons        X                      956 (-25%)       NA
Preserved eggs m eggs      X                      1.89            .16
Aquatic prod.  tons        X                      153             .37
Black tea       tons       X                      580             .31
Down  products             X                       NA           16.94(+76%)
Rosin           tons       X                    13,069 (+5%)    5.29
Pearls         kg          X                     4,500           2.50
Pressed duck   tons        X                       897 (+20%)   2.00
Sources:  Jiang2ii Tongjii Nianiian  198  and Jiangxi Project Office



CHINA
JIANGXI AGRICULTURAL DEVMLOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement and Retail Prices for Selected Project Outputs (1987)
Mixed Average Ia  Mixed Average /a  Market Price         Trade    Import/Export Values (Nat'l)
Unit  Procurement Price Retail Price        (JX City Hkts)    Status   (US$1-Y3.?)          (US$1-Y7.0) lb
Live pigs   Y/kg       2.33                NA                4.33              x          2.70                  5.18
Pork        Y/kg        NA                3.61               3.80              X          6.40                 12.04
Poultry     YIkg       3.87               4.92               5.35              x          5.55                 10.50
Eggs        Ylkg       3.26               3.98               4.20              X          2.96                  5.60
Aqua.Prod   Y/kg       2.54               3.33               4.25              x         11.84                 22.40        a
Tea (Ref)   YIkg       4.78              10.00                 NA              x          7.69                 14.56
Logs        Y/13    175.00              365.00             480.00              K        303.00                573.30
Pulpwood    YIu3         NA                 NA             546.00              K           NA                 NA
Rosin       Y/ton  1404.00             1404.00            2500.00                    1550.00                2722.00
/a   Hixed average prices include state list prices and negotiated prices and are
obtained by dividing the value of procurement/retail sales of each cmoodity
by the quantity sold.
/b Foreign exchange transactions may be routed through the Jiangxi regional foreign exchange center
at a rate of US$l-Y7.0
Source: Jiangxi Tongji Nianjian, 1988 and Project Office data



- 86 -
JhzMisI AGMILTIMIAL CMRaUini  PM        T                                           Table  1
Liveeqeehk ls  Oitseimg .dWseter
dietle                    Ihiik    ------        ---111--s ------ - --                   -------       -      ------lw-----  ------    4 ------
PIeAed  AW%MI   Pased  e1001  Peased  A661001  Plese   As_ i   Please   Lehgh   PiurAed  Aehig
pormi. feed esel led            C
Plg1*II_et.hmd (demo)             a..
Form    et
ereedlaip Pega
or wbook psegued Cdinskie) as
or ete* premsed (ierted) m
.em. fee ',  I led
reedis stoee mid la
Pbowhh.oft  steblldiwd            ms.
sheds esetasegge                ea 
FermI a feed eugg IlIed 
Meelk Duck Oh see*beI eohd        as.
Shded  censerecked              eq 
Fermin foe  euggied 
moe      , eesh k iekhd          n..
shed    . ce .elied             eqa
Form. feed sueIIed              a
iggduck U"       b IIshod         n,o.
Formal. feed                    a,e,h .ed  C
PeuIltry Dr Fe r  asts b I ishoed  no.
Me duck                         no.
Meek duck                       no.
Egg duck                        no.
Mfe    I a f     supp I i ed    t
Performnce Inadcsasrs
Ani_lo omld by IN
Loa I gs                        no.
O  d-ucks                       no.
Pleet duck                      no.
Osess                           no.
CMl Oeip ducks                  no.
Price
Leon pigo                       Y/kg
Cull pigs                        /kg
Me duckse                       Y/kg
meet ductk                       Y/Lk
C-@oo                           Y/he
e  d ucks                       YVh/k



- 87 -
o                                                                   AMX 7
JzaMI  zOtLJW, i _AUf M_=                                                               Table 2
Ageqeajlhre NWV ~lhmerlag ludl"eatr
lodIcater                  Uit       -- -- lo  ----        -- lw   o----------                                           low -----  ------ IUA------
Plaued  Aualwat   Plaed  Actual   Plagued  Actual   PIw.ed  Acal   Plawued  Astual   Pla.ued  Act.all
Auweculture
brhheeb                          e 
bildi                            a  a
Mb wIth Olssoe
*b aIth ducka,-
Duck S"              -4 
n.
Not oftedgeude                     ha
Cratenagbuecal.
Peeerne _1-e.r
Fil"l ti_                         _ t
Ouheed                            e-.
Mbi wit  -la 
Sbwit  duih                   rne.
Fih bfrroir b                      he
Nt  we.leere                       ha
erfereauca indsh<ora
Fish fre  nec   eownd    s       t/ha
Fis  free i_rov.d tonda          h/h
Fish free   i r,                  /ha
Fich frea net ancleaurwa         h/ha
Fish fr,e ce8ee                  h/eq
Price
F ih                             Y/he
Pearl*.                          Y/k
Cost of productio.
FiA  from new Vnd,               Y/tt
Fich froe  giwrocdi pond         Y/kt
Fish froe  barriers              Y/ke
Fih   , fre   et enciloeej*&     Y/i
Fish fre  cage.                  Y/kg
Pearls                           Y/he



JIANIOI AGIOlLlAtAL  VELOPENT PROJECT
Tea and Forestry Key Monitoring Indicators
Indicator             Unit    ---z-1 991- - - - - -- - -1911- --1991--19--199S-----
Plenned Actual Plannod Actual Planned Actual Plonned Actual Planned Actual Planned Actual Ploane
Ta rehabi itation
b plm_ntetlon
Ipprevm_t                   he
Meinteanc                   ha
Forb111zer applied          t
Labor                        day
Production Indicatore
Yields                      t/ha
Sal_e                       t
Faor_ate price              Y/t
Primry preeeaing
Factorle  under centruction no
Faeterlee in operation      no
R'i neries
Factories under conetruction no.
FactOriee in operation      no.
Afforertatian
Buildlig construction
Off;a                          0 
Dormltorie                  eq a
Fire towers                 Po
Fire stations               no
Telephon  line               be
Tracks                       km
Area plonted                 he
Fertilizer applied           t
Lablor                       aday.
Se dlIngo                    Do.
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -



- 89 -
ANNEX 8
04D.                                                          Table  1
Jiangui Agricultural Develeoepnt tte                                           Page  1
List of 9uisswet
tUnit            -- ----- ruremt    t            ---------
unit  Price   uantity          ICI        LII        LC   Other        Total     Cs;egm..r 1.Aele
(V)                Aaunt    A n          Aunt   Amaut    Amiat    (Y)               (UN)
LITvTOOt  1D  "ILLS
A. 20,000 0 Ceneen4..te 0ill. (2)
Eiquipmt  - iaerted                                                                                       2794.400  t.640,00
Cmii- crct.*r                      J 1.56a5            68,070                                    U,070
Ibtory conveyor              eo   29 ,60        1    474,UO                                     474ti00
V                            00We  388.10       14   467.460                                    467'40t
Pe lot mItw  (ece)           e     4010          1      1 ,60 Um e0
Poa._   a*..v                ee    44,:01110     I      0.040                                   I",040
Permenet mu'.t deviceso      *      1.110        4     44 Sao                                    44.80
InCcl   i               of   46,            4    126116100                                 15.600o
Orinr   ne. *l   _bw         of    4t,"0         2      ti,4tiO                                  tt,41iO
Scr  e onv.,.               4*    *,16           2     44.,tO                                    44,JO
Serea ftar                   *e    12",2        42    548.8o                                    8ti,870
OlDtributing mole (.larr   *g  IOitO             2    207,7ti0                                  207,7t0
cletrilbutine mea (l 1    4I 2tO                 2     26,440                                   "26410
Nation acrlt                 *n     4,01        2      0,142                                     6,.in
Iosfr C   lI  Ino buffer)   *e   116,720         2    2t7,440                                   237,440
1i..- C_11)                 em    SlU51g        2    106,660                                    lot0,W
TurAhdi latrLbutor           e      o 50,00      2    100,170                                   100.170
Di0aribut,r                  as    2".0          2      9,3860                                   8,8i00
Shaking sieve               em    4 ,520         2     "9040                                     02,040
P1et ng mctuhinr  (inc fe    as   2ti.700        2    51.400                                   519.400
Cooler                      em   58,680          2    111.300                                   111,300
Cool la atnd wind *be syst   0a    31.J38        2     68 070                                    68,070
Pe.It or;inder               4a 4,061            2      S,162                                     6,1612
grading seen                 m    44520          2     6a040 At09.040
Pack i no ace Im    5t 8600                      2    1I ,720                                   11S.720
Serving line                 e    40.610         2     8 120                                      1 ,T20
Detector                     as       742     I1O      96,460                                    9f,4t0
Throttle  alue and tee Jo     o       926      120    111.300                                   111,300
Ventiletion A dutt guard    LI    61.020         2    163.240                                   163.240
Pipe and auterialsa,fo  in   LI   88,890         2    64.760                                     84.700
Hotae ee fat rec. A uddin   LS    70*490         2    140, 2w                                   140, fO
Air cooaroa  or ayate        LS   ttiow          2    137.270                                   137.270
Controlling  yete- (inc c   LS   742,000         2  1.444.000                                 1,484.000
Sear. part.                  LS    74.200        2    t46.400                                   148,400
Steelru"a uhophu ut or   LS   7040 0o            2  1,409.000                t,409,00
Mlsee Itrnee                 LS   192 17S        2    364,SS4                                   364,6 8
Physical Contingenle;u               io.O6          0"O 400                                   6S, 400
Equipmnt - local                                                                                          2 1,1,00    879 944
Tranafor_rr, panels, atc   LI   191.500          2                          808, 0O              6,000
Lighting                     LI   60.100         2                          120,200             120,200
D eign cost.                 LI   90,000         2                          150,000 60,000
Soilers                      *u   85,000         2     70,000                                    70,000
Water troatont               ea   38.000         2     70,000                                    70,000
Weigh bridge                 go    t0.000        2     60,000                                    60,000
Control equipment            on    94 400        2    192600                                   192, 60
InstalIation                 LI  440.000         2                           6iO                6 it0 .OOO
Physical Contingencies               10.09            239,20                15.320            9lWt60
S.  10,000 - 18,000 t Forula foed will* (8 0 10,000 t, 2   lS 1,COO t)
Eq:uiu_nt - imported                                                                                     21,002000 8,66.00111
Inta C  nd ,rinding          LI  30.O000         5  1,l00,000                                 1,00.000
Deoing auction               LS 684,000          5  3.270.000                                 3,270.000
HMiing section               LS  315.000         5  1.87S,000                                 1,875,000
Pe1leting section            LI  648,000         5 4,215.000                                  4.21S000
lagging installation         LI  271.000         5  13C.000                                 1.3U5,000
Spouting                     LI   54,00         83   270.:000                                   270,000K
Eloctr II     ta t             tio  L    t2 000  S  1,750 000                                 1.750,000
Spare port.                  LI  I58 ,00         5    775.000                                   778,000
Adding of tiquid             LI   St8.000        5    168,000                                  1,000
Dust sapirution filter       LI   SSM 5O                17S 000                                 178,000
Noise Insulation             LI   61.000         S    806,000                                   306,000
Duat aoeirstion for intuk    LI   30.000         8    180,000                                   150,000
Tlai for uola"ae -ddit;io    LS    20,000        5   100000                                    1OO,O
MolDaa" ee;no unit           LI   36000         5    160.000                                   160,000
Sieveo and hears fo- ha    LI    5,000           5    25,000                                     25,000
Die for pullet mll - 6       LS   I1.OOO         5    20,000                                     90.000
Dies for pullet al1 - 4      LI   22.000         5    110.000                                   110.000
Packaging. tran_porL         LS   250,000        8  1.250.000                                 1.250.000
TA d*ring startup            LI  3JlJ000         5  I,580000                                ISSO0000
Physiccl contingenciea               10.09          1.912,000                                 1.912.000
Equipuent - local                                                                                         1,028,000    291,214
blctr,cal                    LS    96,000        S                          e9u u..i *'u11A
lo;ler                       es    88.000        5    17S.000                                   175,000
Water treeatnt               as    35,000 t           175,000                                   175.000
Weigh bridg                        30 *     8O.0  5    150.000                                  150.000
Nepar equipuent              LS     6.000        5                           40,000              40,000
Phys;cul Contingencies               10.09                                  5S000               53,000
C. 5,000 t Foraula fed a;Is (3)
Equipment - local                                                                                           52ilt.462    142,44t
Elevator                     on    4500        12                           U4,000              S4,000
Cran cleaning acroen         es     2,420        S                            7,260               7,260
Pordor cleoa;ni  screen     es      2.420        3                            7,260               7,260
Coke breaker                 to     8,000        3                            9,000               9.000
Grind-                      ma      4,000        3                           12,000              12. 0C0
Weighing mchine              e      2500         3                            7.50 S              7, 5O
Hl Nar                      e*      4.           3                           13.50 S0            12,500
Wineb                        em     16 00        3                            5,400               5 400
Winch                         m     1.00         9                           13 lS0              18,500
Winch                        ea       700        3                            2,100               2.100
E.trartor                    as    10,300        3                           S 80,9              80,900
Microcomputer                so    2,500        80                           75,000              75,0CO



ANNEX 8
- 90 -                                                         Table I/Page 2
.-P......... Pu,_g   l "11 -           ---------
UtR;   PrIerl    bs.t;  CtUy      ,         L           LC    Ot 0" C.o tl            c    .     t
Eloctrea.ic contrlle          as      3.J00       30                              0,o000               90.000
so    14,.am         3                            42.000                42 000
N.agaUsnl.eus                 LS    20 000          3                            .o,ooo                O,000
Isotelletion                 UL    17.000          a                             51.0 o1 000
M ;sicsl Con -tin.Ci*                  10o.0                                     4a,042               48,042
D   2300 t f*ei 11 a (16)
362.600    103,161
mac   1 Rory                  La    1io0o          16                           176,000               17,OO0
'eel.  .t..                  UL       7,500       6t                            120.000               110.000
ln.tolo it                    LS      1,O0        is                             14.000                16,000
098..                         LS      2.2110       06                            36000                 36.000
Ph,.Igo$ CqR%.q"ni. L;1.0                                                        34.80034,8000
. 0 9                              uoca Ia Pee  a IIe[ (26)
e   SOO t Fteul Fei *11 1 (2lj                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~508,420    151.648
NXek....,1                     LS     10o0         26                           20.000                200.000
esel  n et.                    UL      9000       2                             234.000              234.000
Ie.teil.te.,                  LS        G00       26                             13,000                13.000
Oke r                         Ls        0oo       26                              1.100                 5.30
Physisal Ce.tinganci.e        LS       10. 1o                                    51.120                51.20
F   Animal pertein foed    l                                                                                               3                4
Oryer                         to      9."a          I                             9.oeS                 9. S      30,027        U195
memo, * ll                    so      5,986         1                             S.9on                 5, on
On.dr                         *a      4.941         1                             4 941                 4,943
Ni.                           *       5,940         21.66                                              11.e0e
Se.  feoder                   LS      e.588         !                             6,558                 655S
6otary vfeedsr                L       6.013         I                             6,013                 6,013
PeIeft oee_reoe.r              a    19,8190         1                             19,590               19,590
Breaker                       cc      4.382         1                             4 ,52                 4 352
SeC e                         cc    11,377          2                            22.754                22,754
F.                            go        SW          2                              1, 790               1,7SO
Src-. con--yer                LS      1,580         I                              1.580                1,580
SIcre  ca.eyo                 L      13,61          113.613                                            13.653
Elec.tor                      LS    10,131          1                             10.132               10. 32
Bucket cane-yo,               LB    47,400          1                            47,400                47.400
Electric block                LS      2,9U4         1                             2,9 S                 2,948
Elctric.l    t'nefarer       LI    78,522          1                            76,622                76,622
Inetelletion                  LB    50,000          I                            50,0O         0         30,000
Physical Cantienocis          LS       1o 0o                                     30,002                30,002
C   CFic'-n Dun. FPetory
Processing equiment           LS  654,000           1                           *5 o,000              55e 030      770,5!iO    207,*9
Control instruwanta           LS    30,000          1                            30J000                30.000
In-telltion                   LS    14. 00          1                            14,SCJ                14, 500
PymiCl Conti,eenei*           LS       100.6                                     70,080                70,080
S9TOTAL  rE  ILLS                                             31,758,460            0  4,677,779         0 36,636,259  36,636,289  9,675,003
FISHBIES
A   Pearl Culture (CE144)
Production tools              LS   120,000          3                           340,000               360,000      412,000    111051
mest                          e         N 00       20                             12 000               12,000
?-1Os 10,000                                        2                            20,000                20 000
eotor boat,                   on    10,000          2                             20,000               20.000
-1 Net Enclour.. (CE 946)
Bot.                          as        600       276    165,600                                      165,600
C   Cuas  Culture ((F 147)
Production tool.              LS        250       163                            48,730                45.750      ISS,S50     41,927
Boot                          *a        600       163                            109,C00              109,600
o   Berriers (CE 632)
Production tools              Ls        400       150                             60.000               50,000                   40,431
Boot                                     m 600    ISO                             90,000               90.000
E   Nedified pond  (CE #41'
Net.                           es       170       "91                            151,470              151,470      35e,400      ",O S
Cart.                          so       200        91                            176 200              176 200
Ottera                        L          SO       691                             26.730               26.730
F   Ncw ponda - Poyang (CE 943)
Production tools              LB        370       969                           358,530               386,S30      358 S"      106,639
C   Naw ponds - Ji;n (CE 9307)
Production tool.              LS        370       194                             7320                 7,20         7,20        1,747
TOTAL EllIPtWT                                                      0          0  1,093,740          0  1,093,740   1,093,740    294.009
FORESTh
A.Plantation EataL  kh_ent (CE#601,602,603)
Portebls ,diaeonna             as     1,000        16                 16,000                           16,000       19,000      5.121
Station rsdiophon.             so     1.500         2                  3,000                            3,000
e Rtesearch
MierocoaYutar /FI          *c         6.000         3                 24.000                           24.000      2S7,000      71,968
Photoccpia*r /FI          es         10,000         2                 20,000                           20,000
Sal I snlysia ecqui pnt /oot        223 000         1                223S000                          223.000



-91 -                                                 ANNDX 8
Table l/Page 3
WIC   Pr, e                -w-----leg       LI I        LCO   Gthe,        1`Ta I     C.allw   Total*
(V)                   *meh      Au.,        Aont A_*M%           A~%         (6)         (UN)
CAmel f..t.,
.me'. Wv  ,    some                                            .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a   1.6000 .=S
Rf4Ifl Peal                                                                       so6,:'16000           o
D    ollme m l             0         5,60           1                              0,060               0o,0oc
F Cllh.t                            1 40,66E0                                     4!m eooe0o
C *leslf  *.a..'          .    @     eee f fi 00.0"                              50,000
I                S-11_              *iipimg h.ee      sewU e oem                                                       uo:o
l.llrl   * n   oe,mee  I                   ne,06o0Xo.0oo
Cool s     ._                        10.000         A                             70,660               7e.0oe
sell                                I 50660        I                            50660               10.111
TOr^Lab beet eeelgem.,t    .         50.6           I                             30.0O0               s0,000o 00             *
lSIem.lBma,eoae  :t        11~~~M0,00      I                            too.060              110,0601
at                                        o.           1                           ms.m                  mom"37
lMaehl, eeelp(      O)               6 O,OD.0O0     1                            600.000               4.00
,I.e ebecl*XZAg  met      80.....        .... sD000  1                 0060         e        O.*OQ
Tv'.; tttt*wt                 Ls    lo  00  02G0                                                      2a 
PhEubeip_  CLatl.e.                24oo             124J00                                            160s000
0
OMAL 50hzRw  moAMoejm                                                M. mecc    i. 'os. am      0  1.4414.000   1.694.000    466.604
LIVUTO
A.  SWeeding dumb  *Islas (co   e,37)
3u'mwbmtet (6 pee/ses)       set    60,000        23  1,0640, 000                                  1,640,0cc    .?.0           M
C.      (2on l f   pes/set)  not     0.060        23    644000
ge t.a~,e  LS  4,060 we                                                                 ooo 2        o000
Pee.,, Ipetallatie.   ~~LS    5.60         23                            133.00               133.400
E .     We Uaelo  oo5 10 100                       23                           ,2,300                232.300
itUsi' *eet.netime  y                  0.0l6            264,170                 36.570               330,740
S   flock be. elen farm (Cff.  39)
sea pma..t                LS3       246.600         1                           26,500O               246,0.00     2330         319
Pilyeieal coltiteenc.y                 10.06                                     24.6S0                240680
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s7 JODO Droit  fol  (CE  2
e,wi,. ^*   La;  5^o 000   l                        520 eoo              52* ooo~~~110000           9,68
IEa...eat                 LS       1icom0                                        100,000              300,000       100        29 o
Ph,eei   contingency                   10.06                                      10,000
0. Too 6l,esid in  Parme (CEO 40)
Equi.pmmt                 LS3       100,000         I                            100,000              100.000      1000        2.5
Pliysical mme~tingmnc'                 10.06                                       0.0      10,000    tlo
E. Pliod,lit,a. fue' (C65107)
Eouipme t.                LS        570.000         I                            520,000              52C 000        2OO       1410
Pty*,eal e@pt,,,geee7                  10.016                                     52,000               52,000
szb',.tal Equipment                                    2.670,170           0  1.467,620         0  4,337,790   4,337,790  1,169,216
TEA
A   P.m_ .y pIots (47)
WIithemiog t.rmu  (O/plm..t    of     3.000       376                          1.12500              1,1mm    6,79,000  2.369,003
C,wUl,H.g Amet,. (2/pmme       a      3.0          94                            202,000              2 e2.oo
c.am      M.liv  'mth.,:.  G/p.  *    6            47                           212,000               202.030
C1.4 I i . log Ame .  4/lplen    c     e 15.000  1n                          2.620.000             2. 20 000
Oryio  mchM mm  2/plt)        *m    1.o 000         4                            940.000 e400 WC
o,."o  mehim   I/Plero)        mm    19 000        47                             93 ,000              9  e000
FiI tma     1.000                                 47                            47o000                47o000
T'enfrce-.                    m      17,000        47                            799 oo0              799 000
Diet,ibuti,o  booJ4            es     5.o00        47                            235,000              235 000
See'. 08rtat                  LS      8.000        47                           370,000               376,000
Toe?.                         Ls      4.000        47                            150.000              6 6.000
Ph,.;e.l Contingencies                 10.06                                    799,000               7%9,000
8   Refimnig sI*.t. (7)
Stem. _..hi.* (2/plm.t)       so    19.000         14    216,000                                      296,000   1.279740    3449
L,l*lm  mmi  c hoim  I3/oIsm  ma      4,000        21     64,000                                       64,000
Shoki'o .m.h i n  (3/plm.t)    ms     4 500        2 1    @4.500                                       14. s0
CUttir. mac_him  (2/vl., t)    es     1.500        14     210 COO1,0
Picking  mchi-.. (S/P2s..*.)          1 1,700      35     59,500 S.500
S*lect.mm medl,nm  (2/i.,    sa       3.000        34     42,000                                       42,000
PeciE.,, 06ch;mm (3/pl.t'    soa    3,400          21     71 400                                       71,400
Ste.. ahab. nm       -  I.    ea      5,000         7     35.000                                       35,000
Piling iic.shiii  (I/, mtl)   of    50,000          7    350,000                                      350.000
I ma*ruemot. tLS    20 000                          7    10o 000                                      140 000
Fl,o  C,i         'Cie$                10 06             116.340                                      1 41340
C   Packami   Plant
s1.024,100    276.036
Fo ding anchine                ma     6.000         1      6,000                                        6,000
1.5,i for-m                    as   40 0o0          1     40000                                        40,000
Electrical e*ui9pe,            ma    40,000         I     40.000                                       40.000
fi.ndsr                       so    i5.00           1     l,OCO                                        15,000
Tool.                         LS    20,000          1     20,`000                                      20,000
Phy;icaI C,ti;n.ne;*-6                 0o 0s              93.100                                       93,100
TOTAL EWJutIT  - TEA                                  2.303,840           0  6,739,000         0 11,M09    0  11,092,640  2,969, eu
A   O,keh. Nbnthe.9 mo  She.n,,, (CE1646S 166)
Ill,tche.ing  qq.im.t         *-t 1,2600000         2  2,560,000                                    2,550.000 0    25,000  194Y uc
hlmtrg*rmt,on oqw;p.it        set   940.000         2  1,6.0,000                                    l,eOwoOO
SoIled d.ue  *9u,.iqmt        *SOL   105,000        2                            210,000              210,000
1eg  pmocesmi-o  lrkhahop a   *me    83.00o         2                            166,000              166,000
Fots...r .mhioy mod do..    met   510,000           2                          1,020.000            1I020.000
Electrical e9u.mm"t           get   123,000         2                            246.000              246,000
Sal10 I..et.   40,000                               4                            160.000              160,000
CJmeic8l   6 *sbyimoe * pmaV  met    30,000         2                             60,000               60,000
Office end et.;r 04%,PM    set.  124,000            2                            246.000              246,000
Phym;.cl coriti.6"ei.e .0 o0                             644000                  211.000              658,000



-92-                                  AN4NEX 8
Table 1/Page 4
Unit  Prime  QW660ily          IC$        LIS        LC:   OToe tale             Co "Pry T7
(Y)                Amount     A          A         A                     (Y)        ()
S.             80-      _        Pd 1 4Fr (C3i91U.163)                                                                       a.291
chek.ring a m i; st , 1.260,000                  2 2. a0,00                                          oo
lWr hraio  eqJ,ilimmt       ml   450,000         2    900.000                                   900 00O
Pe.sher .ehlnjdas *es Om    2s670o0              2                          no,000              SMO00
S.her   uli_t                 l    2500          2                           59 000              59e000
Physical eel*g ,                     io. 0            366,OOO                59400              406 400
C. amposele  Sulehan Po plant (ColiS)
sel1d dic  procssing        set  2"4.500         1                          294,S W*4,*a
PnIet,                      set     S.SW 5.      I                            5,300               5300
Physical con1eno"cio 10.03                      1                           30.000              30.000
0. Kangshn Form Prmea|ing Pluct (CE  167)
Outch eriing    .quipmn     : %   32   0400      1                           36IO                 m     o   649,220    174.992
n0f }riveetn O"Iuw          * %   20^4e          1                          206,400             2"04o00
Duch *ii"  MWIMm t*   *             j m n A      1                           20.000              20.c00
Inl%;Ilation and d!i on      Ls                  I                           32,000              3520oo
Phyolcol contiftlperinc;e            10.01       1                           59,020              59.020
E. Eld1rdoan Product. Proc.ing PlInt (CE1164)
Electronic stitching mach   set     1.700        2                            3.400               3,400                20r,
Dutton scoing mckhing       ml      1.100 n                                   6 .60               6,600
Sewing machine     mel    ~~5,500       2                            1000               1  0
S4ini _cehing               got                  2 SOO  2700
Se      cing     mach.      s -     *500         4                           26.000              26.000
S-s.no machine               -t    8,500         2                           17000              17,000
High asmad saing machina  *"t    I1SO          342                          632,700             632.700
Physical Contingencies               10.06                                   69.890              69,690
F   Pie Slaughter plant - Jim. (C5139)
Slaughtering eaqii   tn L5       206,000        1                          206,000             206,000                2J 979
Cool ng & frexig equipuLS         203,000        1                          300.000             300,000
Inamtl alu.                      244,000         1                          300,000             300,000
Physical contingencies               10.01                                   60,600              60,6o
TOTAL AI N CPROCC51N  EWUIPET                       6,690,000          0  5,609,010        0 14,299,010  14.299.010  3,654.161
(1AQ TOTAL EWUIP94T                              '5,422,490    2b6.000 23,24.149 0       0 o   5s3,639  69,153,639 1,Si;,i;



- 93 -                                             ANNEX 8
Table 2
04DM
Ag rlultural %)e,elpast Project
Liet of V.hicl.e
IMI k  ----r( -------- -P rseeNt-
Unit  fries   616i; t%         IS         LIS        LCS    Otker    Total            Cakes,y Total
(V)                A-m*nt    Asount    Aeet    DAmunt  Amount                (Y)        (W)
A. Peer: Cultmee (C4d)
soqooc    lS,OU
Truk                            00    n,00          2      WOOD0                                          U.00      &q00        3.0
*. Met belure" (CE 9")
Live fish treneort trucks                           4    in 00D                                        15M coo       20D       6,607
Trucks                          so    NZU           I    166.960                                        1491
Spero parts                             2li        t 10    1,2=2C
C. Modified Peea (CE 941)
Asfrl.W ts  trucks              se    38.600        2         111,000                                   us,EO0    1.049
Live fs  treaport trucks        er   SS000          *    22e0OD                                        226 000
Truck*                         es   27.625         12   38.900                                         363.90 
Spare parts                     *r       125       20      2.500                                         2S00
0. NsD ponds - Petye (CE 046)
442.175    1 19,165
Live fiUb tranwport trucks      es   31,000         5    190,O0                                        190,000
Trucks                         sa   27.?25          9    230,425                                       250,425
Spsre ports                     so       125       14      1,750                                         1,750
e. Now Ponda - Jim" (CE D07)
Live fish transport truckd      as   5850           I    58,500                                         55.500      III'M      30,0I1
Truck&                          *s   27,621         2     55.650                                        65,650
Spre parts                     as        125                                                            5 37:  07S
TOTAL VE4ICLES                                             1, ON, 30D         0          0            0  1605,300   1. 06, 300   432. 6U
AC0R0PRCESSIM
A. Ducks NMnc+eng end Stegreo (CE9165,16)                                                                                 I.400,COD    J77,SS8
Eel tronsport truel             5     40,000       20    600.000                                        00,Coo
Itr ierated trucks              s      o0,000      4    200,000                                       200.000
Field vehicIs o                 es   20,000        15   300.000                                        300,000
Crosa-country shicles           *a   50.000         2    100,000                                        100,000
e. Ducks - Hengie en4 Henqfeng  ar_  (CE#162,163)                                                                           400,000    107,617
"ofr,girst4d trucis         .   eo   50.000         a    400,000                                       400,000
C. E.pension Suicker P50 Plant (CLUll)                                                                                       60,000     21,56
Truck*                          on   40.000         2     60.000                                        60,000
0. kangahen Per. Proeisng Plant (CE 167)                                                                                    101,S0    27, J
Trucks                          sa   26,500         1    28.500                                         26,SO
Refrioersted trucks             *s    57,500        2     75.0o0                                        75,000
E. Eiderdown Product. Proce;ing Plant (CE#164)
F. Pig Slaughter plant - Jian (CEUIS9)
TOTAL VFICLESi                                             I,901,500          0          0            0  1,981,800   1,961,800    1J4,097
TEA
A. Refining plant.
Trucks. St                es          40,000       14   310,000                                        580,000
8. PeckaSing plnt
12C,.000   82,2S45
Trucke, St                *a          40,000        S         120,000                                   120,000
TOTAL VEHICLES                                               6O,00O           0          0            0    680,000    O6,000    163.288
FEDMILLS
A.  15.000 T Formula fe*e  mills                                                                                          1,050,000    283,019
Trruck                                50,000       IS   750.000                                        750,000
Field vehicles                       20,000       15   300,010                                        3000000
C. 5,000 t FarJujl fod milals (3)                                                                                          880000   257,197
Trucks, 5 - 10  t                     44,000       20   680 000                                       e660000
TOTAL VS41CLES                                             1,930,000          0          0            0  1,030,000   1,930,000    520.216
FORESTRY
A-Plantation Establ ;*1ent (CE#601,502,603)                                                                        0
Trucks, 5 t                     as    40.000        6    240,000                                       240,000      316,000     65, 1t
Trucks, I t                     es    19,000        4     76,000                                         76,000
B. Rosin factory
Trucks                          ea   40.000         4    160,000                                        160,000     SOO,OOO     80,8 S
Trucks                          so   140.000        1    140.030                                        140,000
TOTAL VUICLES                                         232    616,000          0          0             0    616,000     616,000    166.020
OtADI TOTAL VIO4CLES                                       6,812,600          0          0             0  6,612,800   6,612,600  1,66,S334



-94-                                  ANNEX 8
Table 3
Jlgoi AgWlmltural O*voiep t P         tPaRe  1
List of Obterlais
Ll%S              --- PWO||.
W&it  pele   baent             IU         LIS        LC       t       a.,c                     11 61
en~~~~~~~Aon _~                     Amon       Amoun     Amo _           (V         (U)
Urgea                           t       an   80110  2.011111.600                                     3.0115.6*0
*10                                  ': Neo   2 ,"Ie e".o li.=                                      1,7. 100   o
F     "of _                           7 Mo    1.600              2.7060.000                          2.70D am0
Polyethylene                   lb    6.          1in    7M0AWOD
; . 1t    lm- r.a (Co 946)
see _Vole                   * *61.175                                         6D.460                    64O.400
"Du                              so~~~k  8    49.0                                1.476.4610  1.478.460
Talmo                          k          s       7                            14.60                    14 Go.
kg       1i U    .7#11                          4D.,W                    400110
Ie   Ir.                               5    3.1I"                            6.41111148
si'r                           .        U 10    1.60                           iD.3                     J9
Phelea  eeaiteencles                   10.06                  0 o              706941       147.641   M.4
C. Case culftur  (CB 647)
*       42e    1 095 41.095o    4991"O                                             924,101   246.064
Bamboo          0  4:300                             W'040                    35~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.040
is aJ 94,i                                 4  14it                  W9. I"
rytc  l e ntin"el              Io eTie           7S,llt               IT17 100                 1t7,100
physical cotinrgencies                 10.011            75.119          0     87.00W1      60.778    172.916
0. Serrlere (CE S2)
Bmoo    lse                    no         *    2.300                          100,000                  160.000 U2161    147,612
Hats                           k         20   11,900                                        357,000    387 000
Twine                                    s0      217                            9.510                    9.510
Stamn.                                   10      314                            1,140                    3,140
I'ge                        000 *       590       23                           13.570                   18,570
Iren .lre                     14          3      69t                            2 ot                     2 3. 0
Physical w..iig...cles                 10.0                  0          0     20, 66        311.700    5 6.UI
TOTAL AT1IALS                                        4,009,219  2,700.00w  1,425,673     2,529,361 10,674,672  10,674,672  2.677,824
AWatiDe
A Eiid.rd,w Products Pr.cessing Plant (CE0164)
Nylon eloU.                     *         6    2,o000    492,66                                        492 ,   I6  , 16,21    S01.00i
St" l                           t     1.200      912  1,.095,600                                     1,095,600
TC (? CIloth ,'                               so,oo 5 0C    22 1720                                    22 o70
Fel  iller (7)                  g        18      400      7.122                                          7,123
Deterg.t                        6   14,640         2     2"l660                                         29,6lo
t. Pg Slouglter plant - Jiar. (C14)
Steel                           t     1,200      920  1104.000                                       1,104.000   1.104,000   297,574
TOTAL tATWIALS                                        2,942,621          0          0             0  2,962M.21   2,9 62,121   795,604
TEA
A. Pfa.tlo. Eatlie.lant                                                                                                 10,9WI,26   2,948,431
Ur,. 6 1.4 t/h.                 *       675    6.729  4.542.075                                      4 S42.075
Compound fart (N-P-l) (3S       *       6u    7,211  6 021. 16                                       6.021.182
Pesticides                      6    16,400       20   sS6,o000                                        366.000
t.  F cle.ing Plant                                                                                                      7,173,100  1,913,480
Polyethylene                    t    6.000        1s    90.000                                          90,000
Craft paper                     *    S200        6*0 2,400,000                                       2,400,000
Aluui mm folI                   t    16,700       12   248,100                                         248.100
Stel                            e     1,200    3,700  4,440.000                                      4.440,000
TOTAL NATWIALS                                       16,104,260          0          0             0 16.104,260  16,104,200  4,e79611
LIVESTOO(
A. Ducks
Ure                                     G 6s    1,400    we0.0                                         *4S 000 21.664,256  5.64"4,14
St"el                           t     1.200      6OO    720,000                                        720,000
F;a mo_l                        6    2.2S0    6,000             1,200,OO0                          1,00.000
Additi.ve                       6   24,4157      188 3,740,2                                         3,740.2 156
Polyeth.ylee t.   6,000                          400  2,400,000                                      2,400,O0
Ureding ducks                  LS                                  370.000                             370,000
to.  :lmeftome  n, c*wn
Steel                           t     1,200      1oo    120,000                                        120,000                 42049
Fish _*1l                       6    2.250        1s                26.000                              36.000
C. Pig,
Ur**                            t       s67    5.320  3.591.000                                                  1,181,650    313.504
Stool                           t     1,200      442   S30, 400                                        52 0400
zinc p1.6. pipe                 t     1,875      ISO    261,250                                        261.250
.readiv.g pigs           L3                                        270,000                             270,000
TOTAL MATERIALS                                      12.216,906 12,906,000          0             0 22, 681,906  23.021,906  6.205,264



95                                            ANNEX 8
Table 3
Page 2
Unit  Pri_. _blati           _l* LIs             L        ta.
(Y)   ~ ~~ANE          Amsma      Dm0m    V.mI*w"t                            PA"
A.ptsmt.0I  bllgbm,t ON1, .fh
st"l                m     Mcm                                        270.000  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0C.307  1.11110.21161
s.o.S  0  ,US.*   US   170.001                                      170.0      ,,S7  1,02
y. a 0.696 SIM (.* fir             676. 8   ,     8419.39 eo,419.9
_m..yo.o.eo     61g                 m      2.,14 2,0W,Ua                                     2.09,606
=_ .76_                      *     t0 87yU    10    Weon                                        eo,o
Iwwu.d see  SODA pins       h      I 1*.    1,6 721 ,2uO                                       22sino
h        Coi..,.                    10.051          6111 206                                  smoo201
TOTAL IIIM ,5                                     7,00,257        0         0            0 7.030.257  7,030,257  1,6"2,51
oM   MAL5 HATWIAL,6                              44,4118.,1 16.06.000  1,41.173    2,611,411 61,414.210 61,734,21  146.68,451



- 96 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
CHINA
JTIANGXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Agriculture Sector
A.1  Jianaxi Statical Yearbook (Jiangxi Tongji Nianiian), 1988.
A.2 China - Livestock Sector Survey, Report No. 6589-CHA, IBRD, 1987
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1  Feasibility Study Report on the Comprehensive Agricultural
Development Project in Jitai Basin and Poyang Lake Area of
Jiangxi Province (January 1989)
B.2  Tentative Program of Purchasing Materials for the Jiangxi Jian
Poyang Lake Area Project (October 1988)
Tea
B.3  Feasibility Study on Tea Development (October 1988)
.3a Map of Project Sites
B.4  Feasibility Study on Tea Processing (October 1988)
Fores try
B.5 Feasibility Research Report on Slash Pine Tapping and Timber
Forest Base (October 1988)
.5a Soil Survey Map of Jingdezhen Area
B.6 Feasibility Research Report on Rosin Factory (October 1988)
Livestock
B.7  Report on the Feasibility Study of Production of Aquatic
Poultries (October 1988)
B.8  Feasibility Study Report on Lean Pig Commercial Base Construction
(October 1988)
B.9  Feasibility Report on the Building of the Breeding System of
Lean-Meat Type Breeding Pi.gs in Shangrao Area (April 1988)
B.10 Plan for Establishment of Original Lean-Type Pigs Base for Jian
Area Agricultural Development (April 1988)
B.ll Feasibility Study Report on the Expansion of the Breedir.g Farm of
Taihe Pure Black Bone Chicken (October 1988)
B.12 The United Meats Processing Production Chain Extension (October
1988)
B.13 Feasibility Report on Aquatic Bird Processing (April 1988)
B.14 Feasibility Study Report on Comprehensive Using Chicken Dung
(April 1988)
B.15 Feasibility Study Report on Extending Eiderdown Production
Processing Factory (October 1988)
B.16 Study on Feasibility of Establishing a Feed-Producing System of
Agricultural Synthetical Exploiting Items in Ji-lake area of
Jiangxi (October 1988)
B.17 Feasibility Study Report for Extension of Animal Protein Feed
Workshop of Narnchang Ganjian Living Things Chemical Plant
B.18 General Feasility Study on Processing (October 1988)



- 97
ANNEX 8
Page 2
Aguacultua
B.19 Feasibility Research Report of Aquatic Products
Project Managemnt. SuMIlX & Narketing and Trainig
B.20 Administrative Organization of the Project to Exploit and Develop
Agricultural Resources in the Area of Jian and Poyang Lake of
Jiangxi Province (October 1988)
B.21 The Scheme of Capital Management of Jiangxi Province Ji-Hu
Developing Agriculture Projects (October 1988)
B.22 Provincial Measures of Ji Hu Agriculture Comprehensive
Development Project of Jiangxi Province (October 1988)
B.23 Temporary Methods of Planning and Management of the Projects to
Exploit and Develop Comprehensively Agricultural Resources in the
Areas of Jian-Poyang Lake, Jiangxi Province (October 1988)
B.24 Temporary Executure MHans of Materials Management for
Agricultural Comprehensive Developing Projects of Ji Hu of
Jiangxi Province (October 1988)
B.25 Program of Scientific Research, Training, Investigation and
Consultation (October 1988)
C. Preparation Reports
C.1 Jiangxi Agricultural Development Project, Project Brief and
Annexes (FAO, Rome), June 30, 1988
C.2 Bengough, C. Forestry Report (November 1988)
C.3 Hald, R. Livestock Reports (November 1988 and February 1989)
C.4 Roeland, W. Agroprocessing Reports (November 1988 and February
1989)
C.5 Tso, T.C. Tea Report (October 1988)
C.6 Harrell, P. Memorandum, Supplemental Report on Forestry
Development (March 1989)
C.7 Hill, K. Supplemental Report on Tea (February 1989)
C.8 Pedini, M. Fisheries Reports (November 1988 and March 1989)
C.9  Rees, C.  Memorandum (Environmental Review) dated November 22,
1988.
D. Working Papers
D.1 Detailed Cost Estimates, Financial and Economic Analyses (COSTAB
printout)
E. Materials Brought to Negotiations
E.1 Specialized Planning of Fencheng Municipality ADC for Five Years
E.2 Poyang Lake Mangement Plan
E.3 Environmental Impact of Jiangxi Agricultural Comprehensive
Development Project
E.4 Sales Volume and Forecasted Requirements of Main Commodities



- 98 -
Iuplmmteti..~~~rst 1omdl
JXXM    M1CLXA  KMOWTPtCT
Year        1           19  so         i  1s   1 St1i   a                 is  a                 1   34
it              r.         8   4    1   2    &   41    1   3a   4    1   2   S   4    1   1   a   4         1   1   &    4
Pig IN eedtbSieox.t    1333 33x *UN *RUN   xxx|33xxx1 xxx|xx3  *x   x NUN R Exxl
Broiwi tom oxeio             xxx  xxx :xx *xxl xxx 
PvI%try Ofe11    li 11_   x^x x    x"x xxxma  xxx xxx  nun xxx maxa X  xxx xx  inn 
tlp Ut   empaseie n    six  Run sun             33 3K           3    3   3
improved                                   Ix                                 I   I:::I
Mat oncloeve                                                      * xorIIIIIIII
Peals                    I  IxxxlIxxXI   I   liXXllXXXI     I       Ixxx x    I   I   II   I   I   I   I
Establishmnt             I3I3I33333333I3I3I3I3~333333K3I3I3                                              I     I        
MT  neec                                I !^ xxl^  [!x^X llxxx   !XXIxx:A::!:  !      l       W ! !s         ! !  
Poreetry  I   I   II   I   I   I   II  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E, 
Eotablishuent            1333133     xxxlxxx31133313331333133 xxx1xxx33x33xxxi3xxIx3xx3xixx1x1xxI    1   11    1   1   1    1
Maint nonce              I   I   11 1       xxxlxxxl IxxxlXxxtxlxxxinxjlxxxlxxxlxxxlxxxllxxxlxxxlxxxlxxllxxx IxxxI   I    I
Maintenance                   1   11   1   1          13313331331331  1331331331331  1331331331331  133  1331                I 
FEotil      n             Ix  I                                           11                             1   1              1II
Building construction   I   I   llxxlxxxlxxxlxxxilxxx xxxlxxxlxxxlxxxlxxxlxxxlxxal   I   I   I    I    I   I   I    I
Equipment Inotallotlon  1   1   11   1   1   1xxxI3xxx 3xxx 3x1xlx33I 333 I xxxxI   I   I   1   11    1   1   1    1
Bein operation                                     I  1II 3   1                   131   I   I   I   I |            I   I    I
Airoprocee-ing
building construction   I   I   l      I    333Ilxxxlxxxlxxxlx II IxI3Ixx            I     I I   I   I I    I   I   I    I
Equipment installation  I   I   11   I   I    lxxxIl3:I13lxxKxxxlxxxIllxxxlxI I3    xI        I        I       I       I    I
Bein .peration           I   I   11   I   I   I   llxxxlxxxlxxxlxxxllxxxlxxxlxxxlxxxlI      I   I   I   11    I   I   I    I
Est. Effective Dt --------/                                                 Completion Dt -------------------/
ClosIng date--------------



- 99 -
CHINA                           FIJ3B 2
JIANGXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization For Project Implementation
Jiangxi Provincial
|       Government
- - -   - - - - -     ProJect Coordinating
l                    j      Committe
l     Technical       I
I    Committee
Provincial Project
Office
Prefectural/Municipal                       r
Project Coordinating
Committees (8)       __
Project
Technical            Offices                   Jiangxi
Committees                                          S ADC
ref.arun. ADCs
County/state FarmI_
Committees_
_        ~~Project
Technical              Offices
Committees
County/State
Farm ADCs
|Township /Village|
I Project Units 
FSHs, Farmers. SFF8



- 100 -                        FIGURE 3
CHINA
JANOGXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJZCT
Flow of IDA Funds
IDA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL GOVERNMCNT      l
JIANGXI BOF
PROVINCA      |
ENTERPIE"
PREFECTURAL BOFs
Z  ENTERPROSES       l
C        lUNTY  disuenclco(                       pAB 
STATE FARM ADCS             _CUTY ADCs  
rSF ENTERPRISES  |               COUNTY ENTERPRISES   - 
t     ~SPECIALIZED HOUSEHOLDS          - - - - - - 
----- - - - - loan disbursement/collection (see SAR, para 4.10)



MOCUREMIET ICMEDULE FOR E5UUESNT AND MATENIALA
-_tC llp4A4..1e.am'p m    roject
_-                                _                            a  -89  _0  _9 _9 .92                                                                                   94_
________ NPK                                             I lC   1 00 _5                                                             1 e                                                                  1ce FF tcxc    sCec*Skctt    :iWait4iXtItJtI1tIit 18
Pack. 01 First Year's
UREA. liPK and                            ".0wm
Vitamin Additiv-s           ice    1.80                e
Pack.  82 First Year'soi
j1 Aei1Lgr.                5.. 
Ptak.  13 First Year's                                                        .                                                                                                                  - = :
Fislasel                                                                                    4 
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                    re Equl p on nd   IC 815   mVI   e 1   i 
Pack. #4 First Year's                     ':i 
Smaller Equipment f            L     CD 2 7 _  _ _                                       - i  -f
Minor Materials             LCE    4.80 .eo                                        -  - -                                                                                                                         0
-ack-   ES                *-                    D:                         -5   -! ;                     -            -  -     -    -     -                                                            - _
ComT,utere           LIE     0.05  .       _4    - ..                                                                                                       ... ..
Pack.  86 Second Year's                  .m.4                                                                           
Larger Equipment and                      Sia                   6-=- 
Major Materials             ics    8.5Iv,.                                        1-      -
Pack.  87 Second Year's   -CB-T4 iI -                                                     . -
Smaller Equipment &                       .m                        4t~ --    t,-t
Minor Materials             LE      2.70  C,.                A-           
Pack.  88 Secloud    L's
Pialmeal        i LII  ~2.33
Pack.  89 Third Year's                    ...                               
Larger E.quipmsnt &                       i,e-                     -
Mjor Materials             icE    2.25          -4u.
Pack.  810 Third Year's                   m.,
Smaller Equipment &                       .ae         -     -4
Minor Materials            .1L ..Z 
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~no.nnia
_s~"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.OUl5,,S .0
C-mSfls bAM.,S.fl. `.4eeMUM.meS.*.*  5.v.l                                                                                                       ft~. 054)~   OiIa'..esse.  v    Mee
sva.u,ssm    aa                                         710,,e,.AOSA  .oSusvv..                               s.e50.,5.t0 iv                         . Ie.
s..sS,esflmsan*eAe'OaI vOeiiAS*eMc* ii. rc,.ov 0.*hO*iOOOCiASlIl  i~ p. SILvytIvA? iVE        SW ,OC*tCfh',**f



Porno. ir
CHINA                                        P          ,CCURIMENT  NIOULI POWV%MIN  AD MAMMALi                        a' iamazi Augi"lt-lte *"Gtopmt Project
_e5_     e     -          .e 1 '@ 89 1 '90         |91                        92
St_ -n         _ D-ks _    PLg  LIS    0.20__   _
Pack. 011 Thirdh Year'.    CS4
Pack. 114 Fosrth Year'.                                      4I 0   *                           I                                211A-                                                           , 
Small Equipnent                          ..4 .  4  4 I  4, 4 -                                     t + 4  I                    -
LdB    0.96  ,=            44                       4+-~~- :~ -
-A-L                         4~~~~~~~~-4
TOTAL            _     50.4 _.=-                                          + t4              -           ,             -
.~~~~~- _                                ;444-41; .4tlt 04
+*-4 -4 tf    -4+   4 
^c  - 4                   4                                                                                                         4 4   4.  - 
_______ _z                                'an         - P                         U ThBhK't 
MID I.A.".~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~4WS .'...' .05     CS1 "II-1
C  A      .   A   Y*    e_s< *c.
cea. sa. .9,.SoYaC Oat                                           ,,*.., .Me ..,0.' 40  aSo  C0..Oa!fl 50~                                      -  ~  ste
U USe  vauat   at    WASC' ,ca  * .04 Ccft*a* 0* MC4   'ass ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~t



WUHAN~                                                                             T.A *V.
l~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~ ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~ -O Anqa- -: -1 18-17
jHoio                          N                                ANHUI                                  .
-30                                        f    /,     ^uaneuCih                     t           .   >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T W
3 OU,W -3  Bf  -  
308~~~~~~~~~~
ANGZHEJIANG
H~~~~~~~~~XJ   U                       NN                                                                    -
80                             ' ;                                                  FUJIANANCHANG
HUNAN            (.b-                                                           , 
TOCO.nq.0/ /X /                                                                                            PROJECT" 
mw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~~~~~~~p
2  f  s  j~~~-  -           /t   C             -) ~~~Jiangxi Province
27~~~~n,{_Oslzn-                                                           y                                                                              ucu 
20~~~~
AGRICULTURAL~Fee DEVELaOPp.M' ENT
JU00                                /t              H .O.'n.ng
-PROJECT@d
-~~~~~~~~~~~~ -28  by _       '0Xln-. <                                                          h
rO Cfwn xi n /  f -   \JH f +   Z H 1ZNJiangxiProvinc
AI.. ;
21-  -~                                  XI&                                                                         T" '206000 mdo.'I..
T. chx..                                                                                                          - -
--  -'                                                                     0      2~~~~~~~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,m 20  7  1
| Lnizn  I  -zS    > i   Tvlv n O  Suichang {)                                        IJ75~~~~A  Lo Thsn 10pt3
j     |   'bAen    ,i ,_ T                                                         *    l.p,I"
O sA      N-  D O                                                                K |  Aki L  
~~~~~~T i          .. V.-                                                                                         4, lt  Ftkng | )X
25-  ~                    -'        ;              'Ku _                           
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    C.f y seg /  (wk"wi p_ 
__-"~~p~  G"gNzbou t               ~GUANG DONG                                                                   KILOMETERS



