Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16050
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
JIANGXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2097-CRA)
October 2, 1996
Rural and Social Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Yuan
$1.00 = Y 4.71 (1990)
$1.00 =Y 5.37 (1991)
$1.00 = Y 5.54 (1992)
$ 1.00 = Y 5.75 (1993)
$ 1.00 = Y 8.24 (1994)
$1.00 = Y 8.42 (1995)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP      -     Agricultural Development Project
FAO      -     Food and Agriculture Organization
ICB      -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -     International Development Association
PMO      -     Project Management Office
p-mth    -     Person-month
SAR      -     Staff Appraisal Report
SH       -     Specialized Household
TA       -     Technical Assistance
tpa      -     Tons per annum
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................................................                                                                                         iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................................v
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .........................................................1
A. Project Objectives ........................................................                                                                1
B.  Implementation  Experience  and  Results .......................................................2
C. Project Impact .........................................................1.1
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                            ..1...................................... I 
E. Project Sustainability ........................................................                                                          13
F. IDA  Performance ........................................................                                                                14
G. Borrower Performance ........................................................                                                            15
H.  Assessment of Outcome ........................................................                                                          15
I. Future Operation ........................................................                                                                16
J. Key Lessons Learned ........................................................                                                             16
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ........................................................                                                                   18
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ........................................................                                                    18
Table  2:  Related  Bank  Loans/Credits ........................................................                                            19
Table 3: Project Time Table ........................................................                                                        19
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................... 20
Table  5:  Key  Indicators  For Project Implementation ............................................ 21
Table  6:  Key  Indicators for Project Operations .................................................... 25
Table  7:  Studies  Included  in  Project ........................................................                                         27
Table 8A: Project Costs ........................................................                                                           28
Table 8B: Project Financing ........................................................                                                       29
Table  9:  Economic  Costs and  Benefits ........................................................                                            29
Table  10:  Status  of Legal Covenants ........................................................                                            30
Table 1 1: Compliance With Operational Manual Statements .............................. 31
Table  12:  Bank  Resources:  Staff  Units ........................................................                                          31
Table  13:  Bank  Resources:  Missions ........................................................                                            32
Table  14:  Role  of W omen  in  Project ........................................................                                          33
ANNEX A: ICR MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE ........................................................ 34
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ................................. 41
Ms document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties.  Its contents may not othensise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



I



- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
JIANGXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2097-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Jiangxi Agricultural
Development Project in China, for which a credit in the amount of SDR 46.2 million
($60 million equivalent) was approved on March 15, 1990. and made effective on April
27, 1990.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1995. Final disbursements took place on
March 14, 1996, at which time the balance of SDR 0.84 million ($1.2 million) was
canceled.   Total disbursements  amounted  to  SDR 45.36 million  ($63.4 million
equivalent).
The ICR was prepared by a mission comprising B. Brandenburg (Task Manager),
R. Zweig (Aquaculturalist), consultants for the China/Mongolia Rural & Social
Development Operations Division of the East Asia and Pacific Region, June Zhong
(Economist), Li Qun (Economist), and Robert Hing (Financial Analyst). The Report was
reviewed by Messrs. Joseph Goldberg (EA2RS Division Chief) and Zafar Khan (EA2
Acting Project Advisor). The Borrower provided comments which are included as an
Annex to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was completed following the Bank's ICR mission from
May 12-24, 1996, and is based on materials and contributions from the Borrower,
including views reflected in the Aide Memoire; its own evaluation of project
implementation; and financial analyses of the bulk of subprojects.






- v -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
JIANGXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2097-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The main objectives of the project were to assist the Jiangxi Provincial
Government in accelerating and diversifying agricultural development and thereby
raising rural incomes by improving farm productivity and by strengthening support
services at the provincial, prefectural, municipal and county levels. Through the project,
the province would take advantage of its relatively low production costs for pigs,
waterfowl, and tree crops to compete with other provinces for markets for live pigs.
poultry and fish, their by-products, and tea. The main features of the project included:
(a) livestock development, featuring pig and poultry production by specialized
households, and the establishment of commercial pig and poultry breeding farms to
supply these households with improved starter stock; (b) development and intensification
of fresh water fish culture, comprising six fish production models undertaken by
participating households, including integrated fish-duck and fish-pig production;
(c) establishment of slash pine forestry plantations, introducing erosion control on sandy,
hilly land while increasing revenues from tree and resin production, (d) rehabilitation of
low-yielding tea plantations, through establishment of new or the rehabilitation of
existing plantations for the production and export of green tea, and the establishment of
tea processing plants, (e) establishment of agroprocessing facilities to increase the value-
added of the project's output of pigs and poultry, and to demonstrate the commercial
organization, management and financing of such enterprises, and (f) research, training
and technical assistance to improve agricultural research programs, train project
management staff and participating households. improve extension, and provide technical
assistance for enterprise management and marketing.
2.    The project objectives were generally well designed and articulated and well
supported by Jiangxi project staff and subloan recipients. Similarly, they reflected the
provincial government's good implementation capability and were generally consistent
with both the Bank's own development strategy and the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy at the time of implementation.



- vi -
Implementation Results and Experience
3.    The project generally achieved its objectives of accelerating and diversifying
Jiangxi's agriculture sector.   As a result of the strong performance of most
subcomponents, including livestock and afforestation, the overall economic return of the
project is reestimated at 32.5 percent, somewhat below the appraised estimate of 39
percent. The lower overall economic return is a result of lower returns on pig production,
aquaculture and agroprocessing.  Due to a lack of market competitveness, these
components were scaled down at mid-term review. Similar methodology was used to
calculate appraisal and ICR rates of return.
4.    Final total project costs were less than the appraised amounts, though differences
exist between appraised and actual costs by component. Generally, final foreign costs
exceeded appraisal amounts due to delays and subsequent higher-than-anticipated
inflation. For the agroprocessing component, constraints in disbursement of counterpart
funds delayed the construction and the establishment of a number of feed mills and
slaughter plants. These delays led to significant cost overruns and a one-year delay in
project completion and loan closing.
5.    FAO/CP's and IDA's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal
of the project was deemed satisfactory. IDA's performance in supervision is also viewed
as satisfactory to highly satisfactory, even though the project could have benefited from
more procurement supervision visits. The Borrower's performance in project preparation
and implementation was generally satisfactory, though some aspects could have been
improved upon, such as more frequent visits to project units by the Project Management
Office (PMO) and county Project Office (PO) staff. Counterpart funds availability was a
serious problem for several large agroprocessing subprojects, causing significant delays
in their onset of production.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
6.    Overall Finding. The project's outcome was satisfactory. The most significant
accomplishment was the introduction of new production technologies, particularly for
livestock and poultry, in several of the province's low income areas. Over 14,000
households participated in livestock production project training, helping them to shift
from subsistence to cash-based commercial agriculture, leading to increased household
incomes. Socioeconomic household surveys support this conclusion. The mid-term
review provided the opportunity to revise project design based on experience gained. For
example, the agroprocessing component, while projected to be viable with an economic
return of 32.9 percent, was significantly revised as a result of the mid-term review. The
aggregate capacity of appraised feed mills was reduced to reflect changes in the market
and the total investment costs were reassessed. The reassessment of investment costs was
necessary to account for significant cost overruns and lower than appraised output
capacity due to a number of factors including delays in counterpart funding for equipment



- vii -
procurement. Had there been no delays or changes in market conditions, the project
would have been rated highly satisfactory.
7.    Project Impact. The project has been very successful in generating employment
opportunities and in enhancing income for participating households. It has provided
training and employment for over 18,000 women. 49 percent of the total project-
generated employment. The introduction of new livestock. poultry and fish production
technologies has been widely accepted and replicated by nonproject households and has
had a major impact on rural incomes in the province. Agroprocessing facilities, albeit
delayed, are impacting favorably by adding value to primary livestock and poultry
products generated by the project.  Marketing skills for processed products have
improved greatly, but could have been institutionalized better, had allocated TA funds
been utilized for this purpose. Soil erosion controls in planted tree areas have improved
and forest products are being harvested for value-added income. In the provincial
context, the project had a significant impact on local government's institutional
capabilities.  In addition to the introduction of valuable project preparation and
management skills to mid- and senior-level government planners, and to project
enterprise managers, the project strengthened the Provincial Agriculture Bureau's ability
to introduce new production technologies to project and nonproject households. These
advances will render a heretofore stagnant agricultural sector more competitive in
developing markets outside the province.
8.    Sustainability.  Strong financial incentives to the project beneficiaries of the
livestock and aquaculture components will ensure their sustainability. Continued strong
demand for livestock and poultry products, linked to market development efforts, will
ensure that expanded production will continue to find markets.  Due to the long
maturation process of the planted trees, the profitability of the forestry component will
not be assured for another three to five years. Tree plantations will continue to require
maintenance related to pest control and fertilization. The present status of forest growth
and maintenance is good and financial analysis points to future viability.  The
agroprocessing component, although delayed in implementation and facing significant
cost overruns, will be successful provided that market development and efforts continue.
The domestic markets for project output of specialty animal feed and tea are both strong
and growing. Over 75 percent of the project's frozen and dried duck is targeted at export
markets, as is 90 percent of the down garments manufactured under this component. The
training provided to project management staff and participating households will be
sustainable, as evidenced by household performance. Training will be continued after the
project as the result of an upgraded training center and incentive-driven extension staff.
9.    Future Operation.  The future operation of the project will require some
assistance from PMO in the areas of: (a) continued technical supervision of household
livestock and fish production, (b) continued maintenance of the training center and
extension staff capabilities, (c) facilitating the continuous provision of counterpart funds
to complete delayed construction under the agroprocessing component, (d) continued
monitoring of the financial profitability of all agroprocessing units, (e) supervision of a



- viii -
small fertilizer replacement trial under the agroforestry component, and (f) facilitation
with the construction and financing of additional tea processing capacity as tea output
continues to increase. IDA will continue to monitor progress of the actions to be taken by
PMO during the supervision of other projects in the province.
10.   Lessons Learned.  The key lessons learned from  the project include the
following: (a) lack of counterpart funds should have been spotted earlier in project
implementation, so that delays in civil works and Qommissioning could have been
avoided, (b) more prompt attention could have been paid to counterpart funds availability
if, at appraisal, annual counterpart funds allocations had been documented by amount and
source, (c) more effort should have been made to ensure that internationally procured
training and technical assistance, especially in marketing and enterprise management, had
been completed as scheduled, (d) during the project's onset of implementation, more
supervision field time should have been spent on procurement and disbursement issues,
so that PMO staff would have been more familiar with these matters at an early stage, and
(e) baseline estimate for of key performance indicators for all components should have
been established at appraisal. This would have provided a more systematic approach to
monitoring during project implementation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
JIANGXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2097-CHA)
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The main objectives of the project were to assist the Jiangxi Provincial
Government to: accelerate and diversify agricultural development and thereby raise rural
incomes by improving farm productivity and by strengthening support services at the
provincial, prefectural, municipal, and county levels, thereby moving farm operations
from a subsistence to a commercial orientation. Part of Jiangxi's marketing strategy as a
low-income inland province bordering on the economically advanced seaboard provinces of
southern China as well as Hong Kong has been to make optimal use of its relatively low
production costs, available rural labor force, and agricultural land to competitively export
processed livestock and poultry products. The success of the livestock component has been
directly related to this strategy. The project also aimed to increase the use of lands
unsuitable for grain and other crop production.
2.    The specific objectives of the project were as follows:
(a)   A livestock development program featuring pig and poultry production
on hilly lands unsuitable for grain production, consisting of household
production of pigs, ducks and geese; and the establishment of commercial
breeding farms for genetically improved pigs and ducks;
(b)   The development and intensification of freshwater fish culture in low-
lying areas and in lakes and ponds, comprising household and farm-scale
fish production in a variety of fish pond production models; and integrated
duck-fish and pig-fish production;
(c)   The establishment of new, commercial slash-pine forest plantations on
sandy, hilly lands, thereby introducing erosion control of these lands by
means of a revenue-yielding tree and resin crop;
(d)   The rehabilitation of low-yielding tea plantations, comprising the
establishment of new or the rehabilitation of existing plantations for the



- 2 -
production and export of Jiangxi green tea; and the establishment of tea-
processing plants;
(e)   The establishment of agroprocessing facilities to increase the value-
added of project output; to provide formulated feed for project livestock;
and to demonstrate the commercial organization, management and
financing of such facilities; and
(f)    Training and technical assistance through carrying out programs in staff
development and training to upgrade research, extension, and project
management; and to introduce advanced animal husbandry and fish
cultivation techniques to participating specialized households.
3.    The project objectives were generally well designed and articulated in the project
documentation and supported by Jiangxi project staff and subloan recipients. Similarly,
they reflected the provincial government's implementation capability and were consistent
with both the Bank's development strategy and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
at the time of preparation.
B. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
Physical Results
4.    The project's physical completion output varies considerably by component (see
Table 5: Key indicators for Project Implementation). In general, the livestock component
exceeded the original targets with the exception of goose raising, which only reached 72
percent of the appraisal target. The number of livestock-raising specialized households
(SHs) financed by the project exceeded the appraised target by 12.6 percent, for a total of
14,548 SHs. The production output of pig and black bone chickens exceeded 100 percent
of the initial targets, while 21 duck-breeding farms were established as against an
appraised target of 23 such farms. Under the aquaculture component, the construction of
all but two of the six fish pond models exceeded their original targets. A total of 1,462 ha
of new fish ponds was constructed, exceeding the appraised production area by 295 ha. A
total of 2,246 ha of improved fish ponds were constructed, exceeding the appraised target
of 1,089 ha. The completion of 1,182 ha of fish net barriers exceeded appraised plans for
1,000 ha, while only 22.7 ha and 0.4 ha of fish enclosures and fish cages, respectively,
were completed against appraised targets of 276 ha and 3.1 ha, respectively.  Pearl
cultivation achieved the appraised target of 200 ha. Under the agroforestry component,
8,700 ha of slash pine was planted, exceeding the originally appraised target of 6,705 ha.
The tea rehabilitation component reestablished the appraised 4,807 ha of tea plantations.
Under agroprocessing, 66 agroprocessing plants were constructed against an initially
appraised 118 units. Due to a lack of market competitiveness, 47 medium and small-
scale feed mills, I bone meal plant. 3 poultry processing plants and 1 pig abattoir were
canceled at mid-term review.



Agricultural Benefits
5.    Livestock Component.  This component has generally met its technical and
production targets and provides employment and income generation opportunities to large
numbers of livestock and poultry farmers. It was completed on time and its results have
been widely replicated by nonproject farmers. It was designed to produce pigs and poultry
for processing by the agroprocessing component. The component was appraised to finance
23 improved duck- and 4 improved pig-breeding farms, supplying starter stock to
3,778 pig-raising specialized households (SHs) and to 3.945 layer- and meat duck-raising
SHs, and 5,198 goose-raising SHs. One commercial 10,000-head pig farm was also
planned. The total investment for this component at appraisal was $15.4 million or
12.7 percent of total project cost. Following the midterm review, the component was
revised to support a total of 14,548 SHs, comprising 5,052 pig-raising SHs; 3,763 layer- and
meat duck-raising SHs; 3,766 goose-raising SHs; 1,027 duck-fish SHs and 940 pig-fish
SHs. The 4 planned pig-breeding farms, I commercial pig farm and I black bone chicken
breeding farm  were completed, as were 21 of the 23 duck-breeding farms.  The
component's actual investment cost was $14.7 million.
6.    Specialized households have greatly benefited from the project as the result of the
introduction of improved breeds and production technologies and from the well-
implemented technical training programs.  These inputs have shifted participating
household production from backyard subsistence to small-scale, commercialized, market-
oriented production. In addition, the demonstration effect has been remarkable in a large
number of nonproject households-far exceeding the more than 15,000 project-supported
households-that have adopted pig- and duck-raising technologies introduced through the
project. Comparatively low production costs in Jiangxi have played a significant role in the
competitiveness of pig and poultry production vis-a-vis other provinces. While most of the
household production models were successful, two models were less than successful: (a)
the pig-raising model with 12 breeding sows (Model I) was abandoned in favor of the
smaller but very successful Model II, utilizing only 4 sows. The former model turned out to
be too labor-intensive and too high in investment cost to be supported by single family
units; and (b) the household goose-raising model was reduced in number at midterm review
due to the difficulty in procuring adequate numbers of quality starter goslings, the supply of
which had not been planned for under the project. Goslings had to be procured and
transported at greater cost and risk from outside the province.
7.    Significant shifts in input and output prices occurred during the life of the project.
Most compound feed prices peaked at four times the 1989 appraisal prices, from Y 450/ton
in 1989 to Y 2,200/ton in 1995. whereas farm gate prices for pigs and poultry tended to rise
only two-fold. This trend resulted in periodical reduction in profit margins or losses
although, over the life of the project. the household models have remained quite profitable.
This scenario largely reflected the generally beneficial increased commercialization and
competitiveness of China's rural economy over the life of the project, the extent of which
could hardly have been anticipated during the preparation period. Success has largely been
due to the greatly improved production efficiency practiced by participating households,



- 4 -
enhanced by persistently strong markets for ducks and pigs, of which an estimated 40
percent were marketed outside the province.
8.    Specialized Household Survey. Household income rose dramatically in the project
area. At the time of project appraisal, provincial rural income levels were below the
national average, and incomes in the project area were even lower than the provincial
average  In a survey of 250 project SHs completed in 1995 as part of project
implementation compliance, a number of socioeconomic parameters were measured and
documented. IDA credits issued to SHs ranged from Y 5,000 to Y 15,000 per family and
were expended on pig pen or poultry house construction and working capital for the
purchase of piglets, breeding sows, goslings, ducklings or fingerlings. The project provided
on average two training sessions per SH, delivered by participating veterinary and extension
units which had also received upgrading under the project.  The transfer of animal
husbandry technologies such as artificial insemination, disease prevention and treatment,
animal nutrition, and vaccination has been quite successful, as evidenced by SH
performance. The size of the average production unit for all types of SHs increased 20
percent over appraisal estimates, mostly the result of the rapid reinvestment of profits
following the completion of credit repayments after two to three years. Increases in
production scale varied greatly, ranging from 10 to 100 percent over nonproject households,
for pig-raising SHs; from 2 to 8 times for layer ducks; from 50 to 200 percent for SHs
raising meat ducks; and from 10 to 50 percent for goose-raising SHs. For SHs engaged in
aquaculture, pig and duck raising are complementary activities for the specific purpose of
providing manure for fish pond fertilization. Fish production per ha of pond increased by
more than 20 percent due to this technology.
9.    Increases in project household benefits are significant. Households raising layer
ducks increased their per capita income from an average of Y 680 to Y 4,777 (a seven-fold
increase); fish-pig raising households from Y 845 to Y 4,545 (a five-fold increase); duck-
pig raising households from Y 569 to Y 3,282 (an almost six-fold increase); pig-raising
households from Y 663 to Y 2,486 per year (an almost four-fold increase); meat duck-
raising households from Y 660 to Y 1,372 (a two-fold increase); and goose-raising
households from Y 729 to Y 1,061 (a 1.5-fold increase). Net income per labor day
increased from 12 percent for goose-raising households to 500 percent for layer duck-
raising households. The most compelling evidence of SH success was the wide replication
of all production models by nonproject households.
10.   Pig- and poultry-breeding farms. The number of originally appraised farms was,
with the exception of two poultry-breeding farms, achieved. These farms introduced
improved local or exotic pig and duck breeds that were disseminated systematically
throughout the project area. The productivity of the pig-breeding farms' selection programs
was sufficiently vigorous to reduce the needed number of breeder pigs offered for sale by
20 percent below estimated appraisal rates. Future culling rates are projected to decrease,
however, as the genetic quality in the breeding herds stabilizes over time. An important
omission in project design was the failure to establish a three-stage pig multiplier system
under the project, instead of the prevailing two-stage system. This additional step would



- 5 -
have allowed for the multiplication (rather than sale to farmers) of primary and expensively
raised parent breeding stock. This has been raised with breeding farm management and is
now being implemented on several breeding farms.
11.   The duckling output of the duck-breeding farms, totaling 8 million per year at
project completion versus 9 million as appraised, was sufficient to supply 71 percent of the
11.2 million ducklings annually raised by participating households. The balance was
procured from nonproject hatcheries. With numerous ponds and waterways located in the
duck-raising project areas in northern Jiangxi, commercial duck raising has become an
important mainstay of SH production.
12.   Aquaculture Component. The overall development objectives of this component
were generally met and production targets were exceeded. The component was appraised to
finance five different fish production models, comprising 1,167 ha and 1,069 ha of new and
improved fish ponds, respectively; 1,000 ha of net barrier ponds; 276 ha of net enclosures;
and 3.1 ha of cage enclosures. In addition, financing would include 200 ha of pearl farms,
920 SHs engaged in integrated fish-pig raising, and 534 SHs engaged in integrated fish-
duck raising. The total appraised investment cost was estimated at $14.4 million or 11.8
percent of total project cost. Following the midterm review, actual financing included
1,462 ha of newly constructed fish ponds, 2,246 ha of improved fish ponds, 1,182 ha of net
barriers, 22 ha of net enclosures, and 0.4 ha of net cages, 4 pearl farms covering a total area
of 200 ha, 940 SHs engaged in integrated pig-fish farming, and 1,027 SHs engaged in
integrated duck-fish farming. The total actual investment cost was $15.1 1 million. These
investments were established in 18 project counties across Jiangxi province.
13.   New fish ponds. Construction generally followed SAR specifications, with minor
variations due to topography. Sufficient interest in developing new ponds existed to
increase their area by 295 ha (25 percent over the SAR Target), for a total of 100 project
sites with an average pond area of 15 ha per site, ranging from 3 to 70 ha. Most often, a
single adjacent nursery (0.2 ha) and a single grow-out pond (I ha) areas were leased to
individual households. Occasional departures from the appraised models included a
three-pond model (two nursery and one production pond); changes in the appraised 1-to-5
area ratio for nursery to production ponds; and much larger pond areas leased to
households due to little interest among a few households in the vicinity. Water exchange
control structures for the ponds varied in design and effectiveness from high quality,
well-engineered structures to none at all. The latter was due to uniforn preset, per unit
area investment limits for all ponds which were not always adequate to accommodate site
specific topography and water management needs. Moreover, independent water supply
and drainage canals served projects sites on the whole, but not always individual ponds
within the site which resulted in water pumped between ponds, making water
management less than optimal. Despite the above-noted design variations, fish farmers
were generally able to achieve the appraised production targets and anticipated
profitability.



- 6 -
14.   Improved ponds. The same engineering specifications used for new ponds were
used in the construction of improved ponds and involved mostly deepening, reshaping, and
the installation of independent water supply and drainage channels. The effectiveness and
demand for this subcomponent led to its expansion at mid term review by 1,355 ha, a 152-
percent increase over SAR targets. A total of 105 sites were developed with a pond surface
area averaging 21 ha, ranging from 2 to 105 ha each.
15.   Net barriers. The development of net barriers, set out to confine fish in water
catchments or lakes, essentially met appraised targets, with an area increase of 182 ha,
18 percent over SAR target. Eleven sites were developed averaging 107 ha and ranging in
size from 20 to 280 ha each. On one site, freshwater crabs were included to the fin fish
polyculture due to their higher market price and production profitability with care taken to
have the crabs available for marketing during the annual Spring Festival. This production
model was analyzed to be economically successful and sustainable. However, demand for
this advanced type of aquaculture technology proved not to be as widespread as that for
pond culture. in part due to higher risks from flooding, the limited number of suitable sites
and little knowledge of the methods.
16.   Net enclosure and cage culture. These two models have been judged as failures
due to technical development problems and unfamiliarity by farmers and PMO aquaculture
staff with their operation. Moreover, the Project Construction Unit was reluctant to expend
funds for consultants and research. Their further development was therefore stopped at
midterm review. Of the two models, cage culture would appear to hold the most potential
for success, based on its performance in other parts of China. The total development of
sites for these two models was reduced from 3.03 ha to 0.4 ha for cage culture, and from
276 ha to 22.7 ha for net enclosure. The balance of allocated funds was transferred to other
aquaculture subcomponents.
17.   Pearl cultivation. This subcomponent was appraised at 200 ha comprising four
sites. During the midterm review a request for expansion to 400 ha was turned down on the
grounds that market saturation of freshwater pearls from the project and from other
production sites in China would depress market prices. This concern was borne out as the
average pearl prices for all grades of pearls fell by about 33 percent from Y 1,800/kg to
Y 1.200/kg between 1993 and 1995.
18.   Integrated pig-fish and duck-fish ponds. These pond models were sufficiently
popular to warrant their increase at midterm review by 20 SHs and 493 SHs, respectively.
The animal husbandry production generated sufficient return on investment to carry its own
costs while contributing to fish yield increases from the fertilizing effects of manure and
reducing input costs.
19.   Tea Rehabilitation Component. This subcomponent's processing capacity has
kept balance with incremental tea production output under the separate tea rehabilitation
component. The combined FRR for the processing and production parts is 24.1 percent. At
project completion, the fresh-leaf tea yield at present, taking into account staggered planting



- 7 -
and differing planting sites and times, was reported to average 3 t/ha, for a total yield of
14,421 t of fresh-leaf tea, or production of 3,600 t of processed tea (at a ratio of 4:1 for
fresh:processed tea). This yield is projected to reach 5.6 t/ha at full production. and
additional processing capacity will be built from nonproject funds to keep up with
increasing output. At appraisal, the construction of 47 primary-processing facilities of
120 tpa each was planned with an aggregate capacity of 5,640 tpa of processed tea. In order
to maintain fresh leaf quality and to purchase and process more easily, the construction of
primary processing plants was increased to 80 plants at mid-term review. At completion.
however, only the original 47 plants had been completed. at 60 tpa capacity, for an
aggregate capacity of 2,820 tpa. Existing (i.e.. preproject) capacity of 2,500 tpa, as well as
further planned expansion of primary processing will close the gap. The large number of
these plants is due to their need to be situated adjacent to each of the numerous tea
harvesting areas in order to maximize the freshness of the harvested tea during processing,
thereby ensuring expected product quality. In addition, seven existing refined-processing
factories were expanded from 400 to 800 tpa. for an incremental aggregate capacity of
2,800 tpa. Total tea-processing capacity stood at 5.640 tpa at completion. The component
is financially viable based on existing assumptions. Whether the planned yield of 5.6 t/ha
will be reached is uncertain, given other production profiles in the area and the rather
northern latitude at which the tea plantations are located.
20.   Agroforestry Component. This component serves two purposes: erosion control
of hilly terrain through tree planting, and resin and log harvesting and processing. The
component was increased at midterm review from an appraisal estimate of 3,966 to
8,700 ha of newly planted slash pine, a species with a 30 percent greater resin yield than the
native masson pine. The pine stands are dispersed over four separate project areas. While it
is too early in the 20-year maturation cycle to confirm final target resin or log yields, the
plantings were observed to have reached their expected height of 5.4 m at five years of age.
The resin processing plant procured and processed 2.245 t in 1995. By 2006-09. it will
reach full production, which is estimated to be 32,000 t annually. In order to save operating
costs during the long nonproductive maturation period, urea fertilizer, to be applied at
1.1 tlha, has been replaced with organic compost, applied at 0.65 t/ha. This substitution
resulted in a cost saving of Y 900/ha. PMO has been requested to review this substitution
in view of potential losses of growth and production. One-ha trial plots will be designated
for continuous urea application to establish comparative baseline growth rate curves for
organic and nonorganic fertilizer application programs. Logging will not begin until the
year 2000. Based on data available to the mission. this component was analyzed to be
profitable.
21.   Agroprocessing Component. General. This component was designed to process
feed for livestock and the output from the livestock, forestry and tea rehabilitation
components. It was appraised to finance 52 feed mills; 7 duck- and pig-processing plants:
47 tea-processing plants; 7 refined tea processing plants; and 5 enterprises producing down
for garment insulation. soil conditioner from poultry waste, bone meal. resin byproducts.
and food packaging, for an estimated total investment cost for 118 enterprises of
$30.15 million. These investments were reduced to 66 enterprises at the mid-term review



- 8 -
by eliminating 47 small feed mills, 4 livestock- and poultry-processing plants, and the bone
meal plant. The revised component established 5 feed mills. I poultry waste conversion
plant, 2 poultry slaughter plants. I pressed salted duck processing plant, I eider down-
processing plant, 47 primary tea and 7 refined tea-processing plants, I food product package
printing plant, and I resin-processing plant, at an actual investment cost of $27.97 million
or 24.5 percent of actual total project cost.
22.   Despite this scaling down, the principal objectives of the agroprocessing component
have been largely attained.  The main types of agroprocessing activities foreseen at
appraisal have been constructed and are expected to operate profitably. In response to
prevailing market conditions, several changes in processing capacity were approved by the
Bank at midterm review. These included the elimination of 42 small-scale [500 tons per
annum (tpa)] compound feed mills, 5 medium-scale (10,000-15,000 tpa) compound feed
mills, and 2 medium-sized (3.3 million birds p.a.) poultry slaughter plants. An increase in
processing capacity from 47 to 80 primary tea-processing plants was also approved,
although no more than the original 47 plants had been constructed at project completion. A
significant investment increase in production technology for the food product packaging
printing plant was also approved, allowing this plant's output to compete in upscale, more
profitable food packaging markets.
23.   The establishment and commissioning of the feed mills and poultry slaughter plants
were delayed due to three factors:  (a) construction delays due to counterpart funds
constraints; (b) cost overruns resulting from the delays and consequent higher-than-
estimated inflationary trends as well as deteriorating exchange rates, and (c) miscellaneous
factors including lack of clients familiar with ICB procurement and severe flooding of
poultry-processing plant sites. As a result, the component has a lower-than-appraised total
processing capacity, at nearly twice the appraised investment cost. Furthermore, local
banks were often unable to disburse originally committed loans due to severe credit
shortages, further delaying plant construction. These extra costs have been absorbed by
larger-than-planned allocations of counterpart funds.
24.   Feed Mill Operations. The two 20,000 tpa and three 5,000 tpa feed mills
constructed under the project will be able to respond positively to current market trends, as
they will possess the necessary advanced processing technology, quality assurance skills,
and marketing strategies. The two larger mills began trial operations in October 1995 and
began commercial operation in March 1996. In spite of delayed commissioning, the
projected rates of return of these mills remain satisfactory. The three smaller feed mills are
presently operating at a break-even production rate on one shift until their planned increase
to two shifts per day scheduled for 1997.
25.   This subcomponent, even though considerably reduced in investment scope due to
market changes toward larger mills and specialty feeds and away from smaller compound
feeds, will respond well to these changes and become quite successful. The midterm
revision eliminated 47 appraised feed mills for a combined design output of 156,000 tpa of
compound feed, leaving an annual feed output under the project of 114,000 tons. This 58



- 9 -
percent reduction in planned output (although severe in dimension) was directly in line with
prevailing feed-processing trends in the province in which, during the early stages of feed
industry development, large numbers of small- to medium-sized mills were established to
service the rapidly commercializing pig and poultry subsectors, with little regard for
product lines or competitiveness. The past several years has seen the replacement of many
small mills by larger, more technologically advanced mills producing specialty feeds of
higher quality. It is worth noting that the trend-as experienced in Jiangxi-of shifting to
larger, more technologically advanced feed mills, at the expense of smaller mills operating
at lower technology levels, quite accurately reflects the findings reported in the Bank-
executed 1993 China Animal Feed Sector Study, which recommended significant shifts in
this same direction.
26.   Duck-processing Plants.  This subcomponent was also reduced in investment
scope due to lower-than-appraised processing capacity need. The capacity built under the
project is, although delayed, technologically advanced and projected to be profitable. Five
processing plants were envisaged at appraisal, with a combined output of 10.55 million
frozen or preserved ducks and quantities of eggs and down, for an investment of
Y 31 million. Actual implementation included two processing plants with an aggregate
capacity of 3.1 million frozen birds, and the expansion of an existing dehydrated duck plant.
The two new plants will commence trial operations in September 1996, with regular
operations scheduled for 1997 and full production for 1998. Unusual flood conditions in
1995 further contributed to the construction delays referred to above. All plants are,
however, projected to be profitable. They were built to process the ducks raised by
participating project households that, due to the commissioning delay of these plants, had,
in the interim, developed their own marketing channels through middlemen and wholesale
free markets. Assurances have been made by PMO that project households will continue to
make marketing choices on the basis of fair, free-market prices when deciding on whether
to shift from their private sales channels to selling to the new processing plants. The two
new plants, in their turn, are projecting buying costs adequate to ensure them a sufficient
supply of poultry. The expansion of the dehydrated duck plant was completed on time and
its target output, of which 90 percent is exported, has been achieved. Income statements
provided by the company indicate that this plant is operating profitably.
27.   Other Processing Operations. Several other processing plants for resin, down,
poultry waste, and tea have been completed and, based on factory data, are operating
profitably. The resin-processing plant, built for a capacity of 3,000 tpa of refined resin
products, produced 1,620 tpa (or 54 percent of full production) of processed rosin and
turpentine in 1995, exceeding break-even profitability (1,400 tpa). Crude resin is procured
from tapping slash pine stands established under the agroforestry component. The project
also financed the expansion of a down-processing factory that supplies a nonproject
insulated-garment factory. The company purchases and processes 148 tpa of eider down
(equivalent to the output of 1.6 million ducks raised by project-sponsored SHs) and
manufactures 300,000 coats and jackets per year. Its financial rate of return (FRR) has been
calculated to be 12.2 percent. The guano-processing plant converts poultry waste into
fertilizer; it was constructed on time and is operating at full capacity. This plant provides a



- 10-
good example of financing the conversion of potential environmentally-toxic wastes into
value-added soil conditioner.  The planned tea packaging printing plant, originally
estimated to cost Y 6.6 million, was redesigned at midterm review into a much larger
multiple-offset color printing plant using state-of-the-art. ICB-imported printing equipment,
at an increased investment cost of Y 29.54 million. The plant was commissioned in 1995
and is producing a great variety of high quality printed packaging materials for tea and food
products. The plant's revised financial analysis, taking into account its greatly increased
investment cost offset by a larger market for top-of-the-line packaging products, is
calculated to be 14.8 percent. This has been largely due to the efforts of plant management
which, in consultation with the Bank. has embarked on an aggressive and successful
marketing program to increase markets and sales.
28.   Training and Technical Assistance (TA). Based on the above-noted results, the
component was implemented with varying degrees of success. It was appraised to deliver
89 person-months (p-mths) of international study tours (57 months of short courses for
technical staff and 32 months of study tours focused on production, processing and
distribution); 15 p-mths of international TA for local workshops in new technologies and
management; 12,400 p-mths of technical training for SHs; 7,621 p-mths of training for
technicians; the establishment of a training center; and an agricultural research program
with a budget of Y 3.95 million, at an appraised investment cost of $5.04 million (4 percent
of total investment cost). At project completion, 8 and I p-mths of study tours and TA had
been implemented, respectively; as had 12.400 p-mths of SH training (100 percent
implementation); 5,426 p-mths of technician training (71 percent); a training center 79
percent of its appraised size; and a research program that utilized 16 percent of its appraised
budget, for an actual investment cost of $2.54 million.
29.   Project management training, including international study tours and TA, was not
completed, despite repeated reference to this omission by supervision missions. The
reasons given by PMO indicated a reluctance to spend allocated foreign exchange funds for
project activities that would not result in tangible financial returns, from which the IDA
credit could be repaid.  In contrast, training programs for SHs were completely
implemented and very well organized, and have been instrumental in ensuring the ability of
recipient households to absorb the new production technologies introduced under the
project. Similarly, technician training was well implemented, and evidence of its efficacy is
the acceptance of the new technologies by project and nonproject households as transferred
by these technicians. The research budget was poorly utilized due to the institutional
constraints on recipient institutes to develop and implement significant research and
development programs directly linked to stated project objectives. Failure to use project
support for research had a minor impact on the project, since it was not focused on
livestock/poultry production. The long-term effect of lack of project and enterprise training
in marketing and management would be mostly evident in the agroprocessing component,
where enterprise managers could have benefited from exposure to commercial management
and marketing practices.



- 11 -
C. PROJECT IMPACT
30.   The project has been very successful in generating employment opportunities and
in enhancing income for participating households. The introduction of new livestock,
poultry and fish production technologies has been widely accepted by project and
nonproject households alike. Breeding farmns are functioning as designed, as the suppliers
of improved genetic stock to households. Agroprocessing activities, albeit later in
implementation than planned, are impacting favorably by adding value to livestock and
poultry products generated by the project. Marketing skills for processed products have
improved greatly, and could have become institutionalized much sooner if more training
funds allocated for this purpose had been spent. PMO and plant managers have,
however, become very much aware of the need for innovative marketing as a tool for
profitability. A significant project input is the increased integration of farm and
processing units into the market economy.  Tea rehabilitation has resulted in the
development of new local and export markets, through the marketing of top-of-the-line
tea products and export packaging, and the revitalization of an important tea producing
area. Tree planting has converted deteriorating, nonarable hilly land into productive and
environmentally sound production areas, creating additional employment. The project
has provided employment and training to over 18,000 women, 49 percent of the total
project-generated employment. In the provincial context, the project had a significant
impact on local governnent's institutional capabilities, particularly the Provincial
Agriculture Bureau. The project enhanced the ability of the Agriculture Bureau to
introduce advanced animal production technologies to rural households, both in and out
of the project area. In addition, the project introduced modem processing, marketing and
management techniques to a previously stagnant agricultural sector. The project also
introduced project preparation and management skills to mid- and senior-level
government planners that will be certainly utilized in future project development. The
project also highlighted to senior planners the need for an improved agricultural sector
development strategy, particularly for agroprocessing, in order to take advantage of
relatively low production costs in comparison with neighboring provinces.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
31.   Implementation Schedule. The project was initially scheduled for completion
on December 31, 1994, four and one-half years after signing but was granted a one-year
extension to December 31, 1995, except for the agroprocessing component. Civil works,
comprising 26 percent of total investment, were largely completed on schedule.
Counterpart funds shortages during 1993 and 1994 slowed civil works completion for
several of the larger agroprocessing plants, which in turn delayed the international
procurement of equipment. As a result, these plants were commissioned up to four years
behind schedule. International procurement underwent some delays, due to differing
equipment specifications as the result of subproject revisions, and to unfamiliarity by
PMO with ICB procedures. Most equipment procured by competitive international
bidding was delivered between 1993 and 1995. Once civil works were completed,
equipment installation and commissioning followed rapidly.



- 12 -
32.   Training and Technical Assistance.  Training and TA was divided into
international and local training and tours, of which the international component was
largely uncompleted. As previously noted, only 8 p-mths out of an appraised 104 p-mths
of international study tours and TA were completed. PMO has quoted its inability to
repay the foreign exchange allocated due to the nonrevenue earning capacity of this
subcomponent. This matter should have been resolved much earlier in implementation
and should have been attached to a conditionality.  Local training of participating
technicians and households was very well implemented. Technology transfer related to
animal husbandry and fish production has been very efficacious, as evidenced by the
level of production expertise practiced by most households.
33.   Procurement. In spite of procurement delays due to delayed completion of civil
works as the result of counterpart funds shortages, procurement proceeded as planned and
the delivery of contracts was satisfactory.  The preparation of bid documents, bid
invitations, evaluation and contract awarding were carried out by the China National
Machinery Import and Export Corporation in cooperation with the PMO procurement
unit and county PMOs. The bulk of equipment purchased overseas was procured by ICB
procedures, which presented occasional technical and procedural problems. By end 1995,
the total procurement value was $45.82 million. Twenty-seven contracts valued at
$40.86 million were procured under ICB and LIB. The balance of equipment purchased
was procured under national competitive bidding (NCB) and shopping, where contract
values were too small to justify ICB. Procurement processing improved greatly from
1994 on, following the introduction of standard Bank bid documents. All of the
equipment procured was delivered in timely fashion and met technical specifications.
34.   Disbursement.   The disbursement profile  was lower than  estimated.
Disbursement at the end of the second year of implementation was only 34 percent of
estimated targets. This gap narrowed to 78 percent of estimates by end- 1993, after which
disbursement closely followed estimates for the final two years of implementation.
Considerable time was spent by supervision missions and PMO procurement staff to
improve contract specifications, initiated by project beneficiaries, and to prepare contract
revisions.  Changes in construction specifications often caused delays in contract
preparation. The last IDA Credit disbursement was on March 14, 1996, following loan
closing on December 31, 1995.   Project expenditures were estimated to be
$121.74 million. The total amount disbursed was $63.4 million; higher than the original
credit amount of $60 million equivalent. due to the depreciation of the US dollar against
the SDR. SDR 0.84 million ($1.2 million) was canceled at loan closing.
35.   Credit Allocation. The actual allocation of funds by category proceeded largely
as anticipated, with a minor adjustment to include disbursement for civil works for the
agroprocessing component under Category I (civil works) of the Credit Agreement, and
to transfer $1.6 million of surplus Category I funds to Category II (equipment, vehicles
and materials). An increase was also granted in the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for civil works under Category I from 32 percent to 54 percent.



- 13 -
36.   Costs. Total project costs were lower than appraisal estimates, though individual
components and the relationship between local and foreign costs differ. Actual costs for
research, training and technical assistance are significantly lower since this component
was not fully implemented. In addition, lower-than-appraisal costs are the result of
revisions in project design after the mid-term review.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
37.   Livestock  component.   The strong  financial incentives to the project
beneficiaries will ensure the sustainability of this component.  Continued strong
provincial and interprovincial demand for livestock and poultry products, linked to
market development efforts, will ensure that expanded production will continue to find
markets. Since livestock producers are already expanding their operations outside the
project and have found and adjusted to prevailing markets, little additional technical
assistance will be required, except for routine supervision of project activities. Due to the
long maturation process of the planted trees, the profitability of the forestry component
will not be assured for another three to five years and will require continuous
maintenance related to fertilization and pest control. The present status of forest growth
and maintenance is good and financial analysis points to future viability.
38.   The aquaculture component, which has been very successful in terms of the
adaptation of new technologies and level of operation, stands every chance of sustainable
profitability and will not require significant future supervision inputs. As an inland
province, Jiangxi will benefit from producing freshwater fish. Markets and fish prices are
strong enough to ensure profitability even though fish feed prices have risen sharply.
Supervision by PMO should focus on maximizing production efficiency and avoiding
over-production. The final ERR supports this conclusion.
39.   The agroprocessing component, although delayed in implementation and facing
significant cost overruns, will be successful.  Continuous market development and
enterprise commercialization will be needed. Commercialization includes the successful
attraction of joint venture partners to achieve recapitalization and improved management;
improving the stability of production supplies; and expanding markets. The domestic
markets for both animal feed and tea are both strong and growing. Over 75 percent of
frozen and dried duck meat is targeted at export markets, as is 90 percent of the down
garment output. As China has a comparative advantage in aquatic poultry, frozen and
dried duck meat should be competitive in international markets. Current export duck
meat price quotes, FOB factory, exceed the sales prices used in the project financial
projections. Only small amounts of forest products will be produced under the project,
and marketing that output should pose no problem. Marketing arrangements for the
various agroindustries under the project are mostly through state-owned trading
companies. The down garment factory and the dried duck factory sell their output
through Hong Kong agents. While no price or supply problems were reported to the
mission with respect to raw materials, the two largest feed mills financed under the
project are still running acceptance trials, and are one to two years from full capacity



- 14 -
operation. The animal feed industry in central China relies heavily on northeast China for
its supplies of corn and soybean, and that region's ability to supply adequate tonnage to
the growing feed industry does not seem to have been questioned by project management.
It is evidently assumed that price increases can be passed on to the livestock farmers and,
ultimately, to the consumer. Supplies of poultry are procured under contract from
associated production units. PMO needs to continue to supervise enterprise transition
toward more commercialized business operations and promote joint ventures and
recapitalization. PMO has been assuming these functions during the final project year,
with the successful attraction of joint venture partners for the package printing plant and
one pig-breeding farm. Additional promotional support such as this will ensure viability.
F. IDA PERFORMANCE
40.   IDA's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project,
assisted by the FAO Cooperative Program during the early stages of preparation, has been
viewed as satisfactory, though it entailed the resolution of initial conceptual differences
of opinion with the central government regarding project scope and design.  The
preparation work was directly based on the provincial government's development
strategy, as set out by the Jiangxi Planning Commission, the Bank's Country Assistance
Program, and the implementation of earlier provincial agricultural development projects
(ADPs), particularly Shandong ADP and Coastal Lands Development I. The central
government initially wanted an irrigation-based agricultural development project linked
to a crop production component. These components were analyzed to be economically
nonviable and would have suffered from a lack of collaboration between the province's
Agriculture Department and the Bureau of Water Conservancy and were eliminated at
preappraisal.  The aquaculture component did not benefit much from  Nanchang
municipality's prior experience with the Bank's Fresh Water Fisheries Development
Project due to a lack of technical contact between these two agencies.
41.   IDA's supervision performance is considered satisfactory. The eight supervision
missions, which took place on a regular basis, on average once a year over the period
1989-95, were adequate to the circumstances and considered useful by PMO staff. The
missions accurately reported implementation progress; identified operational problems
and provided useful recommendations and solutions; paid close attention to the overall
development impact of the project and were flexible in modifying project implementation
in the face of often rapidly changing conditions. Supervision missions made significant
contributions in the following areas: improving in technical designs and operating
efficiency of agroprocessing subprojects; providing inputs to PMO on the need for more
rigorous analysis of changing market conditions; emphasizing the importance of training
and technical assistance in the dissemination of new production technologies; and
requiring adequate provision of counterpart funding and working capital for project
activities. The missions were also successful in educating PMO and agroprocessing plant
managers in undertaking steps to better commercialize their management and operations
to meet changing market conditions. The missions were less successful in assisting PMO
to recruit overseas technical assistance. Limited Bank Group budgetary resources for



- 15 -
supervision prevented more frequent missions which would have been useful in
maintaining momentum during the first three years of the project.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
42.   The performance of the project's implementing agencies, the Jiangxi Planning
Bureau, in conjunction with the provincial and local PMOs, was generally satisfactory.
The agencies prepared a comprehensive feasibility study for the project which covered
the technical, financial, economic and institutional aspects. Their overall performance
during implementation was satisfactory. Due to their prior involvement in the first Red
Soils Project, the PMO staff was able to coordinate project activities rather well between
the participating technical departments, and was competently staffed throughout
implementation. Project staff at all levels were generally committed to project objectives
and demonstrated project ownership. The project components were for the most part
implemented in line with the agreed implementation arrangements and appropriate action
was taken to redress problems as they occurred. Due to the widespread distribution of
aquaculture and livestock production households in often remote areas, it was difficult for
PMO and supervision missions to meet frequently with project beneficiaries. In some
instances, arising problems could have been resolved sooner. Earlier detection and
intervention by local governments of serious counterpart funding problems might have
been resolved sooner. Audit reports were, overall, produced and submitted on time.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
43.   The project's outcome is viewed as satisfactory since the principal objective of
agricultural sector development was achieved with a relatively high degree of
sustainability. The overall economic rate of return is 32.5 percent, somewhat below the
appraised estimate of 39 percent. Overall, the project had a fairly strong development
impact through investing in the expansion of upgraded household production, linked to
value-added processing in a low income, inland province. The project is not rated highly
satisfactory due to the significant implementation delays and cost overruns of the
agroprocessing component which caused a decrease in appraised production capacity and
the shortfalls in the overseas training component. While the mission assesses the future
sustainability of the agroprocessing component as satisfactory, the actual outcome will
depend upon management capability and autonomy in the local government-owned firms,
the availability of raw materials at reasonable prices and other factors. The year-to-year
profitability of agroindustries, compared with other industrial classifications, is very
variable depending as it does on current commodity prices and availability. For example,
the feed industry in China is currently working on a favorable gross margin but that in
turn depends on inputs from northeast China and the agricultural and market conditions
there. Should these supplies be constrained, there is no assurance that price increases
could be passed on to the customer in what is increasingly a market economy.



- 16 -
44.   It should also be pointed out that the two large feed mills and the two large
poultry-processing factories in the project have accumulated no operational experience
beyond test runs.
1. FUTURE OPERATION
45.   The future operation of activities initiated by the project will require additional
input from PMO in the following areas:  (a) facilitating continued supervision of
household production activities and market development; (b) recurrent budgetary support,
where required, to complete on-farm works and agroprocessing; (c) adequate provision of
working capital for selected agroprocessing plants to reach full production; (d) continued
monitoring of the financial profitability of all agroprocessing plants; (e) continued
supervision of forestry maintenance. and (f continued market development support for
agroprocessing enterprises. PMO should organize an annual development course for
agroprocessing plant managers to update agribusiness management and marketing skills.
Enterprise reform activities, already initiated by PMO, should be continued to allow
project enterprises to compete successfully in rapidly changing markets. IDA will
continue to monitor progress of the actions taken by the PMO during supervision of other
projects (e.g., Animal Feed) in the province.
46.   Future operations of participating state farm enterprises are a function of their
evolution into market-oriented enterprises. These farms are already vertically integrated
and some are conglomerates of diverse activities. Assuming a continuation of present
government policy, the state farms may be expected to evolve into independent
agribusiness corporations. At that point, the future will be determined to a large extent on
quality of management, which is an unevenly distributed commodity and not subject to
prediction. The commercialization of the state farms will have an overall positive effect
on the economy though some of the weaker units will probably be absorbed by the
stronger.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
47.   The project design with its balance of production and processing components has
proved satisfactory and key lessons are related mostly to the execution of the project.
The key lessons learned from the project are summarized below:
(a)   Lack of availability of counterpart funds should have been spotted earlier
in the implementation in order to ensure that delays in civil works could
have been avoided, thereby keeping much of the agroprocessing
component on schedule. Supervision missions did not fail to spot this
problem but there was no mechanism to assure availability when needed.
(b)   More prompt attention could have been paid to counterpart funds
availability if, at appraisal, annual counterpart funds allocations had been
documented by amount and source.



- 17-
(c)   More effort should have been made to ensure that training and TA
procured from international sources, especially in marketing and
agribusiness management for enterprise managers, had been completed
early in implementation, which would have assisted greatly in the
commercialization of participating enterprises.
(d)   More supervision missions should have been budgeted, in particular
related to early disbursement and procurement problems, to ensure a more
rapid onset of implementation. More and earlier training of PMO staff in
ICB procurement could have prevented this problem.
(e)   A baseline survey should have documented key performance indicators, by
component and for the entire project.  This would have assisted in
performance monitoring during and after project implementation.



- 18-
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of
Objective               Substantial       Partial        Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic                                                                   X
Sector policies                                                                 x
Financial objectives                                                            X
Institutional development       X
Poverty reduction               X
Gender concerns                                X
Other social objectives                                                         X
Environmental objectives        X
Public sector management                       X
Private sector development                     X
Other
B. Project Sustainability                    Likely         Unlikely        Uncertain
Livestock Production                           X
Aquaculture                                    X
Reforestation                                  X
Tea Rehabilitation                             X
Agroprocessing                                 X
Research and Training                                          X
Highly
C. Bank Performance                       Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                                                 X
Preparation assistance                                         X
Appraisal                                                      X
Supervision                                                    X
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                   Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                                                    X
Implementation                                                 X
Covenant compliance                                            X
Operation
E. Assessment of Outcome                                       X



- 19-
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title            Purpose         Approval           Status
Preceding Operations
1. North China Plain          Area Development       FY82    Completed
Agriculture
(Cr. 1261-CHA)
2. Shaanxi Agricultural       Area Development       FY89    Closing date 6/30/97
Development
(Cr. 1997-CHA)
Following Operations
3. Red Soils Area Development  Area Development      FY86    Completed
(Cr. 1733-CHA)
4. Hebei Agricultural         Area Development       FY90    Closing date 12/31/96
Development (Cr. 2159-
CHA)
5. Henan Agricultural         Area Development       FY91      Closing date 12/31/97
Development
(Cr. 2242-CHA)
6. Animal Feed                 Feed Industry         FY96    Signed June 7, 1996
(CN-PA-3565)                Development
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIME TABLE
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned              Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (EPS)              April 4, 1988             April 10, 1988
Preparation (Preappraisal)        March 20,1989             October 17, 1988
Appraisal                         June 19, 1989             January 14, 1989
Postappraisal                          --
Negotiations                      May 1, 1989               December 12, 1989
Board Presentation                January 11, 1990          February 27, 1990
Signing                                --                   March 15, 1990
Effectiveness                     June 13, 1990             April 27, 1990
Project Completion                June 30, 1994             June 30, 1995
Loan Closing                      December 31, 1994         December 31, 1995



- 20 -
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
($ million)
FY90     FY91      FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96
Appraisal Estimate          5.00      21.00    43.00     52.00      59.00     60.00       --
Actual                      4.99       7.19    19.84     41.77     55.08      64.13 /a  -.76
Actual as % of Estimate     99.8      34.23    46.14     80.33     93.34     106.88      --
Date of Final Disbursement                                                  March 14, 1996
/a  Higher actual disbursement in US dollar terms than appraisal estimate due to depreciation of the US
dollar against the SDR.



- 21 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project         Key Implementation Indicators       Unit         Estimated        Actual
Component       in SARlPresident's Report
Aquaculture    1. New Ponds                          ha          1,167            1,462
New ponds, fish yield            t/ha            7.5              6.33
11. Improved Ponds                  ha          1,069            2,246
Improved ponds, fish yield      t/ha             6.75             6.41
111. Fish barriers                  ha          1,000            1,182
Fish barriers, yield             t/ha            0.75             0.794
IV. Fish enclosures/a               ha            276              22.7
Fish enclosures, yield           t/ha            7.5             --
V. Fish cages-la                    ha              3.07            0.4
Fish cages, yield               t/ha           150               --
VI. Pearl cultivation               ha            200             200
Pearl cultivation, yield        kg/ha           11               42
VII. Fish-and-duck ponds
a. Layer duck-fish pond (new)     no. SH          266             360
Sheds constructed              sqm/SH.         175              180
Compound feed supplied        kg/duck/vr        63               63.4
Production per SH               t./SH           17               17.2
b. Layer duck-fish pond (improv)  no. SH          268             667
Sheds constructed              sqm/SH          175              179.5
Compound feed supplied        kg/duck/yr        63               63.4
Production per SH               t./SH           17               16.9
IXi Fish-and-pig ponds              ha              0
a. Pig-fish ponds (new)           no. SH          638             410
Pigs produced                  no./yr/hh        30               3 1
Fish produced                    t/yr            7.5              6.33
Pigs sheds constructed         sqm/SH           42               41
Compound feed supplied         kg/pig/yr       553              355
Pigs sold at full production   no./yr/hh        30               3 1
b. Pig-fish ponds (improved)      no. SH          282             530
Pigs produced                   no./yr          30               31
Fish produced                    t/yr            6.75             6.41
Pigs sheds constructed         sqm/SH           42               41
Compound feed supplied         kg/pig/yr       553              355
Pigs sold at full production   no./yr/hh        30                1
X Constructionfor all ponds:
Earth works                     cubm          1,493           2,268
Feeder canals                    km             93              150
Drainage canals                  km            136.8            220
Power supply                     sqm           154.4            278.1
Buildings                      sqm/SH           25               15
Pig sheds                      sqm/SH       35,880           36,600
Specialized households (SH)      hh            920              940
raising pigs                  no.        27,600           29,000
Duck sheds                       sqm        80,100          154,050
Specialized households (SH)      hh            534            1,027
raising ducks (eggs)          ton         4.822           17,458
Production Buildings             sqm        80,100          221,426
Tea             Fresh Leaf Plantations
Rehabilitation
Yield                              t/ha             1.5            3.0
Price                              Y/ha             3.6            2.2
Improved                            ha          4,807           4807
Maintained                          ha          4,807           4.807
Fertilizer applied (urea)           t/ha            1 .4           1 .5
Labor/ha                          p-days          705            705



- 22 -
Project         Key Implementation Indicators      Unit        Estimated        Actual
Component       in SARlPresident's Report
Agroforestry    I. Total slash pine stands          ha         3,966          8,700
(Slash Pine)-Pulpwood          m3/ha            8.9           --
(Thinning at Year 10)
Poles and Logs (Yr 20 felling)  m3/ha          86.3           --
Resin Tapping (Yrs 8, 9)         ha         3,966          8,700
Yield                           t/ha            1.1            1.8
Resin Tapping (Yrs 14-20)        ha         3,966          8,700
Yield                           t/ha           12             25.7
II. General Construction:
Offices                         sqm         2,000          2,000
Dormitories                     sqm         2,000          2,255
Fire towers                     no.            13              8 Lb
Forest service stations         no.             5              2 /b
Telephone lines                 km              n.a.
Fire breaks                     km            279            216.5
III. Forest maintenance.
Area planted                     ha         6,705          8,700
Fertilizer applied              t/ha            1.069          0.65 /c
Seedlings                      no/ha        1,650           1,817
Seedling Survival                %             80-90          92
Agroprocessing  1. Feed Alills:
a. Protein concentrate mills,      no.            2               2
20,000 tpa
Capacitv utilization             %             75              8.5
Onset of operation              date         1993           1996
b. Compound feed mills, 5,000-     no.             8              3
15,000 tpa
Capacity utilization             %             80             66
Onset of operation              date         1993           1995
c. Small Compound feed mills,      no.           42               0 /d
2,000-5,000 tpa
II. Livestock-processing Plants
a. Pig abattoir upgrading:         no.             I             /d
b. Duck-processing plants
Shangrao. Nanchang plants;      no.             2             /d
(large capacity)
c. Henghu and Hengfeng plants.     no.             2              2
(medium capacity)
Frozen duck output             no./yr        2.5 mill.      2.5 mill.
Capacity utilization             %            124            100
d. Kangshang State Farm, (small    no.             I             /d
capacity)
e. Yilan Pressed duck plant        no.             I              I
(Suichuan City)
Pressed, salted duck output    no./yr     140,000         90,000
Exported quantity             % output         90             90
Capacitv utilization             %            100             64
llI. Miscellaneous Processing      no.            59             58
Plants
a. Down-processing Plant           no.             I              I
Buildings constructed           sqm         2,836
Production output            mill.piece         0.3            0.22
Capacity utilization             %             90             73
b. Chicken guano conversion        no.             I              I
plant:.
Output                          t/yr        8,000          4,000
Capacity utilization             %            100             50
Onset of operation              date         1994
c. Bone meal plant:                no.             I             Ld



-  23  -
Project         Key Implementation Indicators      Unit        Estimated        Actual
Component       in SAR/President's Report
d. Primary tea-processing plants   no.            47             47
Average total capacity          tpa           120             60
Plants completed                no.            47             47
Plants completed on time        no.            47             47
Capacity utilization             %             80             61
e. Refined tea-processing plants   no.             7              7
Average capacity per year       tpa           800            860
Plants completed                no.                            7
Plants completed on time        no.                            7
Capacity utilization             %             90             74
f. Resin-processing Plant          no.               I            I
Buildings completed             sqm                         6.370
Crude resin supply              tpa           4,200         2.245
Refined resin output            tpa           3,000         1.620
Turpentine derivatives output   tpa             600          330
Capacity utilization             %               74            54
g. Package Printing Plant          no.               I             I
Construction                    sqm                           8,525
Onset of production             date           1993          1996
Capacity utilization             %               75            14
1. Livestock    I. Specialized Households          no.          12,921        14,548/e
Production
a. Pig production, Model I         no.             300           /d
b. Pig production. Model 11        no.           3.478         5,052
Average sows per SH             no.               4             4.2
Pigs produced                 no./yr/hh          60           72
Compound feed supplied        kg/pig/yr         383          348
c. Meat duck production           no.SH          1,970        2,644
Sheds constructed             sqm/SH            175           175
Compound feed supplied       kg/duck/yr           6            4.9
Production per SH              no./SH         3,000         3.800
d. Fine-meat duck production     no. SH           996             If
Sheds constructed               no.             996
Compound feed supplied         no. SH           996
Production per SH              no./SH         3.000
e. Layer duck production         no. SH           979          1,119
Sheds constructed             sqm/SH            175          221
Compound feed supplied       kg/duck/yr          63            66
Production per SH              t./SH             17            17.8
f. Geese production              no. SH          5,198        3,766
Sheds constructed             sqm/SH             40           37.6
Compound feed supplied       kg/goose/yr          9             8.5
Production per SH              no./SH           600          305
11. Duck-breedingfarms             no.             23            21
Stock raising                   no.           4,000         4,000
Hatchery capacity             no./farm      400,000       400.000
Duckling sold                 no./farm      400,000       400.000
III. Pig-Breeding Farms            no.              4             4
a. Prefectural pig-breeding farm   no.              2             2
Domestic stock procured         no.           2x120          2x123
Imported stock procured         no.
Breeding stock sold            no./vr        2x1040         1,840
Commercial pigs sold           no./yr         1,440         2,874
b. Ji'an breeding farm             no.               I             I
Domestic stock procured         no.
Imported stock procured         no.
Breeding stock sold            no./yr         1.360         1,200
Commercial pigs sold           no./yr         2,300         4,600



- 24 -
Project         Key Implementation Indicators       Unit         Estimated        Actual
Component       in SARlPresident's Report
c. Second Provincial Breeding       no.               I              I
farm
Domestic stock procured          no.             130            167
Imported stock procured          no.
Breeding stock sold             no./yr          1,500         1,115
Commercial pigs sold            no./yr           540          1,316
d. Commercial Pig Farm              no.               I              I
Sow herd                         no.             666            415
Pigs sold                       no./yr         10,000         7,470
IV. Poultry-Breeding Farms
a. Black Bone chicken farm          no.               I              I
Domestic breeders procured       no.           6,600         12,000
Day-old chicks sold             no./yr       348,000        400,000
Breeders sold at full            no.          40,000         42,000
production
Research &      a. International study tours                         89              8
Training                                           p-mths
b. International consulting       p-mths             15              1
services
c. Local training - SH short      p-mths         12,400         12,400
courses
d. Local training - others        p-mths          7,621          5,426
e. Training center construction    sqm           25,500         20,217
f. Scientific research           '000 yuan         1990           373
Notes:
/a   Due to technical problem, the performance of the component is not successful.
/b   Other projects constructed.
/c   Manure was used in substitution.
/d  It was dropped at mid-term review.
/e   Total includes all specialized households.
Lf   Combine calculation with meat duck production.



- 25 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Key operating indicators in SAR/President's Report        Estimated                  Actual
FRRtERR-Total Project                                       n.a./39                  18/32.5
1. Aquaculture
FRR/ERR                                                     n.a.i50                 27.3/43.4
New Fish Pond                                           38/n.a.                 15.4/16.1
Improved fish Pond                                     >50/n.a.                36.5/73.5
Fish Barriers                                          50/n.a.                  19.1>100
Pearl Culture                                          44/n.a.                  54.3/79.2
Yield (t/ha)
Fish (new pond)                                      7.5                     6.33
Fish (improved pond)                                6.75                      6.41
Fish (fish barriers)                                0.75                     0.794
Pearl (pearl culture) (kg/ha)                        I1                       42
Production (ton)
Fish (new pond)                                     8,753                   9,254.4
Fish (improved pond)                                7.216                    14.397
Fish (fish barriers)                                 750                     938.5
Pearl (pearl culture)                                 2                       6.5
SH Net income (yuan)
New pond -fish-pig                                  14,170                   18.180
-fish-duck                                25,390                   13.132
Improved pond - fish-pig                           17.840                   20.466
- fish-duck                           19.230                   19.144
Fish barriers                                       2,810                     n.a.
2. Livestock Production
a. Pig production
FRRiERR                                               15>50/22                  12.1/17.5
SH                                                     >50/n.a.                 11.9/16.8
Breeding Farms                                        15-33/n.a.                15.2/21
Commercial Pig Farm                                    32/n.a.                  11.9/17.9
Yield (head/unit)
Pig (SHs)                                            60                       72
Pig (prefec. breeding farm )                        1,040                    1.840
Pig (breeding farm)                                 1,360                    1.200
Pig (commercial farm)                               9,000                    7.470
Production (head)
Pig (SHs)                                          208,680                  363,744
Pig (prefec. breeding farm) (2)                     2,080                    3.680
Pig (breeding farm) (2)                             2,315                    2400
Pig (commercial farm)                               9,000                    7.470
Pig SH Net income (yuan)                                4,200
b. Aquatic poultry
FRR/ERR                                               15->50/31                 14.4/30.2
Meat Duck SH                                           >50/n.a.                 14.2/20.8
Laying Duck SH                                         >50/n.a.                 13.6/38.9
Geese SH                                               >50/n.a.                 18.1/36.4
Duck Breeding Farm                                       n.a.                   17.9/32.4
Black Bone Chicken farm                                 15/n.a.                 9.6/14.1
Yield
Meat duck (duck/hh)                                 3,000                    3,800
Duck eggs (t/hh)                                     17                       17.8
Geese (geese/hh)                                    600                       305
Black bone chicken                                 40,000                   42.000
Production
Meat duck (bird)                                   9 mill.                  10 mill.
Duck eggs (t)                                      14.643                    19.918
Geese (bird)                                       3.1 mill.               1.15 mill.
Black bone chicken                                 40.000                   42.000
SH Net income
Meat duck                                           4.700                    5.488
Layer duck                                         11,300                    19.108
Geese                                               3,300                    5.305



- 26 -
Key operating indicators in SARJPresident's Report         Estimated                  Actual
3. Forestry
FRR/ERR                                                  24/23                  241.1/25.5
Plantations                                             24/n.a.                 23.8/23.8
Rosin Factory                                           50/n.a.                  25.4/36.6
Yield
Pulpwood (m3/ha)(10 Yr)                               8.9                    --(n.a.)
Poles & logs (m3/ha) (20 Yr)                         86.3                    --(n.a.)
Resin (8.9yr) (t/ha)                                  1.1                      1.8
Resin (14-20yr) (t/ha)                                12                      25.7
Production
Pulpwood (m3)                                       59,490                     n.a.
Poles & logs (m3)                                  578,900                     n.a.
Resin (8-9yr) (kg)                                   7,139                    15,660
Resin (14-20yr) (kg)                                80,408                  223, 590
4. Tea Rehabilitation
FRR/ERR                                                  15/23                  20.5/33.6
Primary Tea Factory                                     17/n.a.                  23.6/38.7
Refined Tea Factory                                     >50/n.a.                 17.6/60.9
Yield (t/ha)
Fresh leaf                                            1.5                       3
Production (t)
Fresh leaf                                          7,211                     14.411
Refined leaf                                         1,759                    5,417
5. Agroprocessing
a. Feed processing
FRRIERR                                                20->50/40                  16.1/30
20,000 tpa Feed mill                                    33/n.a.                  16.9/31.4
5,000 tpa Feed mill                                     31/n.a.                  13.8/24.1
Chicken Dung Fertilizer                                 20/n.a.                  13.6/19.1
Production (t)
Concentrate feed (2)                               300.000                    1,900
Compond feedm (3)                                   90,000                    11,400
b. Livestock processing
FRR/ERR                                                 n.a./72                  14.5/32.9
Poultry Processing Plant                                22/n.a.                  16/24.3
Pressed Salted Duck Processing Plant                    25/n.a.                  12.2/22.4
Eiderdown Plant                                         >50/n.a.                 12.2/51.5
Production
Frozen duck (pieces)                               2 million                 220.000
Pressed salted duck (pieces)                        140,000                  140,000
Fertilizer                                          8,000                     4,000
c. Package printing plant
FRRfERR                                                >50/n.a.                  14.8/41



- 27 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Survey on Water Preservation Project-Poyang Lake.
This report was prepared by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA)
and the National Environmental Protection Agency for the government of Jiangxi, and
issued in September 1993. Although the project's environmental impacts, related to the
establishment of aquaculture subprojects in the Poyang Lake watershed area and directly
adjoining its shorelines, were recognized as negligible at appraisal, the Bank requested
from Jiangxi, under Schedule 2, para. I of the Project Agreement, a Poyang Lake
Management Plan. This Plan was not forthcoming until 1994, when the government
submitted via JICA the above-noted survey. The survey's conclusions are that, as first
priority, industrial and domestic drainage into the lake should be controlled. As second
priority, intensive livestock breeding should be managed to prevent a further influx of
farm or pond effluents.  Recommendations include:  (a) the strengthening of laws
governing water preservation; (b) the establishment of an effective coordinating
organization to oversee the overall mitigation plan; (c) to secure the necessary funds for
the implementation of various mitigation plans; (d) to improve water monitoring systems;
(e) to conserve wetlands and bird habitats surrounding the lake; (f) to promote research on
water conservancy; (g) to promote lake ecosystem studies; (h) to educate the public about
these programs; (i) to promote research and development of sewage treatment equipment.
The implementation of these recommendations had not begun at the time of the ICR
mission.



- 28 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate
Item                  Local  Foreign               Local  Foreign
costs   costs    Total      costs   costs   Total
Livestock
Pig production          6.19    1.75     7.94       6.68    2.42     9.10
Poultry production      6.69    0.80     7.49       4.60    1.02     5.62
Subtotal            12.88    2.55    15.43      11.28    3.44    14.72
Aquaculture            13.40   0.97     14.37      11.38    3.73    15.11
Forestry                3.76    1.15     4.91       3.63    1.23     4.86
Tea Improvement         9.25    2.61    11.86       6.06    3.54     9.60
Agroprocessing
Feed mills              4.01    7.85    11.86       4.43    6.34    10.77
Pork processing         0.47    0.13     0.60
Poultry processing      4.77    3.82     8.59       2.92    4.45     7.37
Tea processing          6.28    1.77     8.05       3.09    5.64     8.73
Resin production        0.82    0.23     1.05       0.40    0.70     1.10
Subtotal            16.35   13.80    30.15      10.84   17.13    27.97
Research, training and    4.01    1.03   5.04       2.53    0.01     2.54
TA
Incremental working    16.60   6.14    22.74      27.62    11.78    39.40
capital
Base Cost           76.25   28.25    104.50     73.34   40.86   114.20
Physical Contingency    5.54    1.78     7.32
Price Contingency       7.36    2.56     9.92
Total Project Cost    89.15   32.59   121.74    73.34   40.86    114.20



- 29 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal Estimate           Actual Estimate
Local  Foreign             Local  Foreign
Source          costs   costs   Total      costs    costs    Total
IDA                     27.40   32.60   60.00     22.54    40.86    63.40
Provincial Government    9.00    --     9.00       5.94              5.94
Municipal & Prefectural   10.40    --    10.40     9.27              9.27
Governments
End-user Contributions  17.60    --    17.60      22.87             22.87
Domestic Loans          24.70    --    24.70       12.72            12.72
Total                89.10  32.60   121.70      73.34    40.86   114.20
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Economic Rate of Return    Appraisal Estimate (%)    ICR Estimate (%)
Project as a whole                    39.0                  32.5
Livestock                            28.1
Pig production                     22                     17.5
Poultry production                 31                    30.2
Aquaculture                           50.0                  43.4
Forestry                              23.0                  25.5
Tea Improvement                       23.0                  33.6
AgroprocessingL                       40.0                  32.9
/a Appraisal estimate of ERR for agroprocessing was based only on livestock processing.



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement             Section    Covenant type    Present status    Original fulfillment date   Description of covenant                 Comments
Credit                 2.02            3                C                    --             Govemment to open and maintain in US        Govemment performed in accordance with
dollar Special Account in a bank on terms and  provisions of Agreement.
conditions satisfactory to Bank and IDA.
2.03           10               C                  12/31/95         Request for closing/completion date         Extension granted by IDA. Closing and
extensions for one year.                   completion dates revised to 12/31/95 and
6/31/96, respectively.
3.02            3               C                 03/15/90          Reallocation of funds from Category I to 2.    Request granted by IDA.
Project               2.01(a)          4               CD                    --             Province to ensure adequate and timely      Counterpart funds constraint in
budgetary provisions.                      agroprocessing resolved after one year delay.
2.01(c)          2               C                                    Interest rate at no less than ABC's prevailing    Compliance confirmed.
rates for similar purposes.
2.07            9               C               Nov I, annual       Detailed work and financing plans for       Compliance confirmed.
following year to be fumished to IDA.
Project                2.08            9                                    CP              Project enterprises to maintain sample      Only partial compliance. Livestock
households for monitoring farm budgets and    household surveys carried out twice.
family incomes and review. findings with IDA.
3.01(ii)         I               C               July 1, annual       Province to furnish audit report to IDA within   Complete compliance throughout
6 months of end of fiscal year.            implementation.
Project Schedule     2, para. 1        6               CP                                   Project activities should be carried out in  Poyang Lake Management Plan submission
conformity with sound environmental        delayed and not in accordance with terms of
practices acceptable to IDA.               reference.
2, para. 2        10              CP                                  Training programs to be reviewed with IDA   Reviews often delayed and in complete.
annually.                                  International TA not implemented.
Covenant types:                                                                                                                          Present Status:
I = Accounts/audit                                                 8 = Indigenous people                                                 C = Covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/generate revenues from beneficiaries     9 = Monitoring, review and reporting                                  CD = Complied with after delay
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds                          10 = Project implementation not covered in categories 1-9             CP = Complied with partially
4 = Counterpart funding                                            II = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other                    NC = Not complied with
5 = Management aspects of executing agency                         12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/
6 = Environmental covenants                                        12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institution I action
7 = Involuntary resettlement resource allocation                   13 = Other



- 31 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Not Applicable
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF UNITS
Stage of Project Cycle     Planned            Revised             Actual
Weeks      $       Weeks       $      Weeks       $
Preparation to appraisal      --       --        --       --       61.7    157.6
Appraisal                     --       --        --        --      30.6      78.6
Negotiations through Board    --       --        --       --        19.9     52.8
Approval
Supervision                  --        --        --        --      78.5    109.2
Completion                    --       --        --        --       6.3      31.4
Total                    201.6    578.6       --        --      197.0    429.6



TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performnance ratings /b
Stage of project cycle         Month/Year       Number of    Days in the    Specialized staff   Implementation        Development         Types of
persons        field      skill represented /a      status            objectives        problems
Through Appraisal             10/88 to 01/89        13            208         PO, RT, ES, AQ            -                   --
(2), IE, FA, FS, PS,
AS
Appraisal through Board      03/89 to 03/90          5             43          IE, PO, A, 2E            -                   --
approval /c
Supervision 1                    09/89               2              6             FA, PS                 I                  I         Deferred Board
presentation
Supervision 2                     07/90              2              6              E, P0                 I                  1I-
Supervision 3                     10/9 1             5             45        E, PS, AS, AQ, El           2                  1         Delayed training
Supervision 4                     03/92              4             40         E, LS, AS, AQ              I                  I                 -
Supervision 5                     05/93              3             18           LS, AQ, AS               I                  I         Procurement,
training delays
Supervision 6                     04/94              3             15           LS, AQ, AS               I                  I         Couniterpart funds
Supervision 7                     05/95              1             22           LS, AQ, AS              H-S                KS                 -
Supervision 8                     11/95              1              4               LS                   S                  S                 -
/a Key to specialized skills: IE =Irrigation Engineer, FA =Financial analyst, E =Economist, AQ = Aquaculturalist, PS  Poultry specialist, P0 = Project
off-icer, AS =Agribusiness specialist, LS = Livestock specialist, RT = resettlement and training specialist, ES = environmental specialist, FS =forestry specialist.
/b Perfor-mance ratings: I   Problem free or minor problems, 2 =moderate problems, 3 = major problems, HS = highly satisfactory, S = satisfactory.
/c Includes Negotiations.



- 33 -
TABLE 14: ROLE OF WOMEN IN PROJECT
Women's participation in   Participating   Women's participation
Project Component      project activities (%)  women (no.)       in training
Total project                  49
Livestock production           59                7.707               65
Pig raising             58                2,992               33
Duck raising            60                4,715               32
Aquaculture                    50                1,953
Forestry                       28                2,111
Tea rehabilitation             55                5,987
Agroprocessing                 25                 540



-34-                            Annex A
ANNEX A: ICR MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
May 11-24, 1996
1.    A Bank mission comprising Messrs. Brian Brandenburg, Ronald Zweig, Robert
Hing and Mmes. Li Qun and Tong Zhong visited Jiangxi province to review preparations
made for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the above-noted project. The
mission made selected field visits to evaluate the completion progress and production status
of subprojects in the project's livestock, agroforestry, agroprocessing, tea rehabilitation and
aquaculture components, and held discussions with staff of the Provincial and selected
County Project Management Offices. The mission wishes to express its appreciation for the
hospitality and cooperation extended by project staff. Subject to review and approval by
Bank management, the following paragraphs record the mission's observations made,
agreements reached and matters raised with PMO staff concerning the mission's field visit
observations and documentation review.
General
2.    PMO Reporting  PMO has provided the mission with its draft Implementation
Completion Report, supported by generally well-prepared documentation. PMO has used a
monitoring and evaluation scoring protocol for the assessment of the technical, production
and physical completion targets reached for each subproject and component, in accordance
with performance standards set out by PMO and the Bank. Several of these scoring
procedures were verified on actual data provided. For the aquaculture component, under
which numerous fish ponds are located in remote, difficult to access areas, physical
verification proved difficult but was found to be generally to correspond with reported data.
Reported completion data on these ponds were found to match actual site observations.
Subprojects under the other project components were easier to access to verify for actual
versus reported data, due to their relative smaller numbers (agroprocessing) or concentrated
geographic locations (tea plantations; forestry stands; pig and poultry breeding farms and
production households).
3.    Implementation Completion Report Revisions. The mission has suggested to
PMO the following areas where strengthening or supplemental information would enhance
PMO's Implementation Completion Report:



- 35 -                          Annex A
*  More detailed references related to project changes made during the Midterm
Review;
* Procurement information by project component, supplemental to general project
procurement;
* An improved annex detailing physical completion results and completion rates,
and reasons for lower than projected completion;
. Increased information on project impact, with particular reference to
participating specialized households;
* Inclusion of a section on factors affecting project implementation;
. Expanded coverage of environmental mitigation and the impact of
environmental protection on afforestation;
- Inclusion of project management objectives and management problems
encountered and resolved;
* Inclusion of a section on factors affecting project sustainability; and
* Expansion on the report section on "Key Lessons Learned."
4.    Specialized Household Survey.  The mission was also presented with an
comprehensive specialized household (SH) survey, comprising socioeconomic data on 250
participating project households engaged in various types of pig, poultry and aquaculture
production. Given the relative importance of household participation under the project,
comprising 12 percent of the project investment cost and involving near 15,000 in number,
this survey was viewed by the mission as an important part of the ICR preparation process
as it sheds valuable light on project household activities and the project's impact on
incremental family incomes and other socioeconomic parameters, which are reported in the
ICR.
5.    Project Completion Documentation.   The mission reviewed the project
completion documentation related to consolidated disbursement and completion reports;
project component reports; estimated and actual indicators; incremental production;
household, farm and factory models; and prices.
6.    Requests for Clarification or Additional Information.  The mission has
requested PMO to complete, revise or furnish the following information or data:



- 36 -                          Annex A
* Actual consolidated investment and disbursement cost tables by project year.
adjusted appropriately for the applicable RMB:Dollar and SDR exchange rates;
*  Selected physical completion data to allow further verification of reported
physical completion rates;
*  A revised edition of PMO's implementation Completion Report, in line with
requested revisions outlined in para. 3.
Livestock Component
7.    This component, comprising 12,581 pig, duck and geese producing SHs and 27
breeding and production farms for ducks, pigs and poultry, has generally been well
implemented. With the exception of household goose production which is constrained by
the supply of goslings, at least an equal number of nonproject households have replicated
the family production models introduced by the project. All 21 duck-breeding farms have
now reached full duckling production and are supplying participating duck-raising
households with starter stock. In spite of the substantial breeding egg output generated by
the duck-breeding farms under the project, the mission was concerned to find a large
duckling hatchery located on Gongqing State Farm, with a design capacity of 26 hatching
units of 10,000 eggs per hatching cycle each, with a serious breeding egg shortage problem;
its new but idle hatching equipment poorly maintained. This hatchery was receiving
insufficient hatching egg supplies from only its own duck-breeding farms and had-or
could-not make arrangements to receive and hatch eggs from other breeding farms. The
mission strongly advised PMO and the management to rectify this situation by ensuring
additional supplies of hatching eggs, and to better utilize its staff of 14 to maintain this
hatchery.
8.    Three of the five pig-breeding (three) and commercial (two) farms have reached full
production. Even though the two breeding farms release for sale fewer young breeding
stock than projected due to heavier than estimated culling, this lagging progress target is
serving to maintain good genetic quality of those breeding pigs due to stricter than
estimated selection and culling.
9.    The mission requested from PMO the following information or data:
* Revised data on estimated, actual and incremental livestock component
indicators and incremental outputs;
* Clarification of pig breeding and commercial farm production models with
respect to unit input and output prices and actual financing plans;



- 37 -                           Annex A
*  Serial 1991-96 prices for feed ingredients, breeding and commercial pigs, ducks
and geese;
*  A separate financial cash flow report of the Gongxing duckling breeding farm
hatchery, incorporating a projection for incremental breeding egg supply to
reach full hatchery capacity from duck breeding farms outside the State Farm.
Agroprocessing Component
10.   Counterpart funds constraints have caused significant delays in construction and
subsequent equipment procurement and commissioning of two large-capacity feed
concentrate mills and two poultry-processing plants. Construction of the latter two was
further delayed by severe floods in 1995. These four subprojects are now expected to be in
operation by September 1996 and have been projected to become profitable despite Bank-
approved expansion beyond their SAR scope and capacity; construction delays; and the
resulting cost increases. The packaging color-printing plant is in operation and is, despite
substantial equipment cost overruns, expected to become profitable due to an intensive and
successful marketing program. The mission has commended PMO for implementing its
earlier recommendation made during the 1995 supervision to embark on a progressive
marketing campaign to generate the necessary printing orders for sustained profitability of
this plant. The resin-processing factory is projected to increase its output from 2,000 tons
(1995) to 4,000 tons by 1999.
11.   The mission requested that PMO address the following:
*  Provide close monitoring and evaluation support to the trial production and
market entry of the newly commissioned feed concentrate mills and poultry-
processing plants;
*  Ensure that those duck-producing SHs which will begin to sell ducks to the two
new poultry-processing plants will receive a farm-gate price equitable to
prevailing free market prices;
*  Closely monitor the supply of resin to the processing plant to ensure its target
profitability at 4,000 tons;
*  Provide the mission with the financing plans, including loan amounts and loan
terms, for all agroprocessing plants, including a loan and loan term schedule for
one each of the primary and secondary tea-processing plants; and
*  Provide information on gender participation in relation to SH contracts.



- 38 -                           Annex A
Afforestation Component
12.   This component was increased substantially at midterm review from the planting of
6,705 ha of slash pine to 8,700 ha, and this increased physical completion target has been
fully met. The synchronization of slash pine planting with the commissioning of the resin-
processing plant has been generally successful. The mission has expressed concern about
the replacement of inorganic fertilizer application by less expensive cost organic compost in
order to reduce cash flow problems during the long forest maturation process. In view of
the claim by PMO advisors that such a substitution has no negative effects on tree growth
and rosin yield, the mission has requested PMO to:
Analyze the comparative impact of inorganic and organic fertilizer on slash pine
growth by selecting, in several forest areas, 2-ha trial plots on which only
inorganic fertilizer will be applied at the recommended rates.
PMO should also:
*  Revise the aggregate forestry production and cash flow  model to more
accurately reflect the actual distribution pretapping expenses during the
nonproduction tree growth years; and
*  Prepare a brief report assessing the impact of reforestation on environmental
integrity and erosion control.
Tea Rehabilitation Component
13.   The tea rehabilitation subprojects are now entering their second tea-processing
season. Actual tea yields are 3 t/ha, versus 5.6 t/ha as projected for 2000. Additional
processing capacity will be built from own funds as tea yields increase in the years to come.
The mission has requested PMO to:
*  Design, based on the phased upgrading of the four tea rehabilitation blocks in
the Jindezhen area, a standard tea yield curve from which yield increases can be
more accurately monitored;
*  Provide the necessary assistance for close and continuous monitoring of year-
by-year tea yields to ensure that optimal yields will be achieved and that causes
for lower than expected yields can be identified quickly; and
*  Provide the necessary funds to ensure that additional tea-processing capacity
will continue to be constructed to keep pace with increasing tea supplies in the
entire tea-producing area, and not only in the project areas.



- 39 -                           Annex A
Aquaculture Component
14.   The aquaculture component has generally been well implemented. A significant
adjustment was made during the project's midterm review, when the scale of each of the
aquaculture subcomponents was adjusted to reflect the relative success achieved by several
fish pond models during the first years of the project. Accordingly, due to the poor
perforrnance of the net cage, net enclosure, and net barrier subcomponents. the size of the
investment for each was reduced, with development of the first two terminated. The good
performance with new and improved ponds for fish production alone or integrated with pig
and duck husbandry resulted in these subcomponents being enlarged in proportion to their
relative performance.
15.   The pearl culture subcomponent remained unchanged at the midterm review, with
the total investment completed at that time. At the close of the project, all facilities
constructed by the project except for the net cages and net enclosures, had successful
production and financial performance. The PMO reported that the development targets set
at the midterm review were fully achieved; although in the case of fish ponds, there was
considerable inconsistency in the quality of engineering applied. It should also be noted
that the serious flood of 1995 only marginally affected a few projects sites in the flood
affected areas.
16.   Markets and Prices. For fish and livestock produced by the component, the
market price has more-or-less kept pace with escalating input prices. This is likely due the
large number of sites developed by the project across Jiangxi. For pearls, there has been a
significant decline in prices dropping from Y 1,800/kg to Y 1,200/kg between 1993 and
1995. The project pearl farms are adjusting to the market situation by diversifying the
variety of their pearl products.
17.   Three issues were identified during the mission which require follow-up actions:
*  Subcomponent Evaluation. The quality of each subcomponent was evaluated by
the PMO in reference to the engineering specifications defined at appraisal and
not in reference to the performance achieved from the actual engineering
employed in the development of project sites. The mission recommends that the
PMO evaluate the experience gained from the project and assess whether
adjustments in engineering made, improve or detract from the actual
performance of each subcomponent;
*  Monitoring and Reporting The mission strongly recommends that each project
county compile detailed information on the area developed at each project site,
the total investment (fixed assets and working capital), the sources of funds, and
the area contracted by each household or each farm (in the case of pearls as of



- 40 -                          Annex A
December 31, 1995, and the PMO should submit this information to the mission
by June 4, 1996);
*  Contract Duration. The contracts provided to farmers were about three years in
length after which the contracted area is re-auctioned, thereby removing
incentives for further investment. In many instances. these short-term contracts
result in the farmners not adequately maintaining, upgrading, and/or investing in
improvement of the contracted facilities. The mission recommends that the
PMO take steps to increase the term of contracts for land use to a 30-year period
to follow the present Chinese government policies, based on an
incentives/disincentives program related to good or poor land use management;
*  A  more detailed environmental impact assessment on all aquaculture
subcomponents; and
*  More detailed information on the socioeconomic aspects of men and women
contracted as SHs under the component.
ICR Completion Schedule
18.   The draft ICR to be prepared by the Bank is expected to be completed by August 1,
for forwarding to PMO for its comments, and to be returned to the Bank by September 20,
1996.
Nanchang, Jiangxi, May 24. 1996



-41-                            Annex B
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1.    Jiangxi Agricultural Development Project (ADP) is a successful project.  Its
implementation achievements, which is the results of joint efforts made by all parties
concerned, is satisfactory and is attributed to the active participation and indigenous work
of project farmers, to the careful management of project management office (PMO) and
the guidance and support by governments at each level and the World Bank. After five
years implementation, the project has achieved good economic, social, and ecological
benefits. The success of Jiangxi ADP also plays a demonstration effect to a larger
agriculture development project in the future.
2.    We think the general assessment of this report is true, objective, comprehensive
and fair. All data and benefits calculated in the report conform with the practical
situation of the project. The report concludes that the project was successful and
proposes key lessons that should be learned. These lessons provide a valuable reference
for future operations and the proposed second phase project. We will pay full attention to
them in preparation for the second phase project.
3.    As it is mentioned in the report, we think that the success of Jiangxi Agricultural
Development Project mainly reflects in the following aspect:
(a)   The project utilized the IDA credit to finance comprehensive agriculture
development, importing new stocks, new technology, advanced equipment
and scientific project management experience;
(b)   The project took full advantage of the natural resources and low labor cost
in the project areas to improve agriculture productivity through
comprehensive agriculture development;
(c)   The project generated employment opportunities for farmers.  All
participating farmers were trained and their skills were significantly
improved.  Women, in particular, participated actively in the project
activities, about 49 percent of the trainees were women, thus further
improving women status in the project;



- 42 -                           Annex B
(d)   Farmer's income in the project area are obviously higher than the farmers
in the nonproject areas, and the local government income also increased at
the same time;
(e)   Farmer's awareness of commercialization in the project areas were further
enhanced. and agricultural production shifted from subsistence level to a
successful, cash-based production of moderate size;
(f)    Due to the introduction of new animal stock and technologies., the project
models were widely accepted and replicated by farmers in nonproject
areas;
(g)   The forestry and tea components have protected land, prevented water and
soil erosion and improved surrounding ecological environment.  The
agroprocessing component has increased added value of agroproducts and
has strengthened market and export competitiveness;
(h)   The Provincial PMO has formulated a series of project management
measures, technical specifications and standards which proved to be viable
and effective.
(i)    Management of the PMO staff at each level was enhanced and a young but
relatively mature team, experienced in project management, has been
established. This will provide a guarantee for success for the future
project;
(j)    The success of the project reflected Jiangxi provincial government's good
implementation capabilities and were generally consistent with both the
Bank's own development strategy and the Bank's County Assistance
Strategy at the same time.
4.    We think that the key lessons pointed out in the report are positive and have
practical significance.  Implementation problems, especially the unavailability of
counterpart funds which delayed plant operation, and the failure to accomplish overseas
training will require great attention in the future preparation of the second phase project.
We will take effective measures to address and resolve these issues. We believe that all
these problems can be solved as our national economy further develops.
5.    Project implementation received consistent assistance and guidance from FAO
and the World Bank. The IDA officers worked very hard to supervise and visit project
sites on their field trips and proposed measures for improvement whenever problems
were discovered. They adjusted project content in accordance with the practical situation,
in order to guarantee smooth implementation of the project. Their work was efficient and



- 43 -                         Annex B
of high quality during the whole project implementation. Cooperation between both
parties was friendly and sincere and opinions on project issues were exchanged frankly.
This help solve various problems which occurred during project implementation.
6.    We completely agree with the opinions in the report.  We will conclude
experiences and draw lessons to remedy our deficiency for the benefits of the proposed
second phase project. We sincerely wish to continue our cooperation with the World
Bank. and we will make efforts to prepare for the second phase project and make it
generate better achievements in the future.









IMAGING
Report No:        16 050
Type: ICR



