Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2097-0 CHA
Project Agreement
(Jiangxi Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
JIANGXI PROVINCE
Dated March 15, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2097-0 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 15, , 1990, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and JIANGXI PROVINCE (the Province).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
forty-six million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 46,200,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that the Province agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association 
as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Province, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Province declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and rural development 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the
Association and the Province shall otherwise agree the Province shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Province shall: (i) on-lend part of the proceeds of the Credit made available to 
it to prefectural and county enterprises and specialized households, through the 
Corporations, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, including that 
applicable interest rates will be no less than ABC's prevailing interest rates for 
similar loans for similar purposes, such rates to be reviewed with the Association in 
light of the cost of funds to the Corporations and their financial viability, as well 
as changes in ABC's interest rates; and (ii) make or causeto be made adequate and 
timely budgetary provisions for the implementation of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Province shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04, (a) The Province shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b)
The Province shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Province of its obligations under 
this Agreement.
Section 2.05. In order to assist in coordinating and carrying out the Project, 
the Province shall maintain its Project Office with staffing, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.06. The Province shall cause each of the Corporations to use any net 
cash receipts, which it may hold due to: (i) differences in timing between sub-loan 
receipts from beneficiaries and repayments to the Province or relevant administrative 
authorities thereunder; and (ii) spread in interest rates, only for financing 
activities similar to those assisted under the Project.
Section 2.07. The Province shall prepare and furnish to the Association for its 
review by November l of each year, starting November 1, 1989, a detailed work and 
financing plan for the implementation of the Project during the following year.
Section 2.08. The Provinces shall cause the Corporations to maintain a sample 
survey of farm
households for the purposes of monitoring farm budgets and family incomes, and shall, 
from time to time, review the findings with the Association.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Province shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the expenditures in respect of 
the Project.
(b)
The Province shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above 
including the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than
six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies 
of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit hereof, 
as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Province shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and the 
Province thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance
with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
Page  4
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify the Province of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Province:
Jiangxi Provincial Government
c/o Jiangxi Agricultural Development
  Project Office
Nanchang, Jiangxi
People's Republic of China
Fax:
Telex:
 
0791-222348
226508 MMJX CN
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Province 
may be taken or executed by its Governor or such other person or persons as he shall 
designate in writing, and he shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
JIANGXI PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Qighen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Service
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance withprocedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and 
II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by 
the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Equipment and materials up to the aggregate of $12,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Earth works, on-farm works and plantation activities may be carried out in 
accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Contracts for civil works for infrastructure, building and road construction 
shall be awarded in
accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Fish meal and such other goods as may be agreed by the Association may be 
procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on 
the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from all known qualified 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in 
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 
thereof).
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
Page  6
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of  statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement. 
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Province in carrying out the Project, the Province shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
The Province shall ensure that Project activities shall be carried out in 
conformity with sound
environmental practices acceptable to the Association. 
2.
The Province shall carry out the staff training to be provided under the Project 
in accordance with a training program agreed between the Association and the Province, 
such training program to be reviewed by the Association and the Province on an annual 
basis.
3.
The Province shall ensure that the afforestation activities under Part C of the 
Project will be carried out in accordance with standards and methods acceptable to the 
Association.
4.
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement, the Province shall ensure that sufficient funds for the procurement of raw 
materials to produce feed of suitable quality will be available for Part A of the 
Project.
