CREDIT NUMBER 2097-0 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Jiangxi Agricultural Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated               C     1       , 1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2097-0 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1990, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Jiangxi Province
(hereinafter called the Province) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to the Province the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date between the Association and the
Province;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; DefiniLions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Province of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) "ABC" means Agricultural Bank of China, a specialized
banking institution established and operating under the laws of
the Borrower;
(d) "Corporations" mean Jiangxi Agricultural Development
Corporation (JADC) and the agricultural development corporations
or entities established at prefectural and county levels which
have responsibility for assisting in implementation of the Project
and "Corporation" means JADC; and
(e) "ha"' means hectare.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to forty-six million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 46,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the ProjecL,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a bank and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be -made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿-3-
(b) The commitmerc charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1
commencing June 1, 2000 and ending December 1, 2024. Each install-
ment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2009
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet dlu. until the principal amount of the


﻿-4-
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
uppn. any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause the Province to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the
Province therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Province
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to the Province in accordance with arrangements satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by the Province pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the Province shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Province
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) The Charter establishing the Corporation shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of the Corporation to perform
any of its obligations under the Project.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Corporation or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified: (a) the
event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council has approved
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Province, and is
legally binding upon the Province in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing, 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                     Telex:
FINANMIN                          22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing


﻿-7-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By               a
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Works for                12,400,000         32%
fisheries
and livestock
development,
forest estab-
lishment and
tea renovation,
and buildings
and roads
(2) Equipment, vehicles      33,200,000         100% of foreign
and materials                              expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
3)  Consultants'               600,000         100%
services and
overseas
training
TOTAL                   46,200,000


﻿-9-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower.
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 2,300,000 may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after February 1, 1989.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist the Province
in accelerating and diversifying agricultural development; (ii) to
improve productivity and incomes of farmers and rural communities;
and (iii) to make maximum utilization of lands unsuitable for
production of grains and other crops.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Livestock Development
1.   Establishment of livestock breeding farms and assistance to
households through construction of sheds and pens and provision of
breeding stock.
2.   Establishment or expansion of about 23 breeding farms or
hatcheries for poultry production.
Part B:   Aquaculture Development
1.   Construction of about 1.200 ha of new ponds and improvement
of about 900 ha of existing ponds, for increased fish production.
2.   Development of about 1,100 Ia of barriers, about 300 ha of
pens and about 31,000 m2 of cages for fish culture.
3.   Establishment of about 200 ha of pearl farming area.
Part C:   Forestry Development
Establishment of about 6,700 ha of plantations of slash pine
with seedlings introduced from imported superior quality seed.
Part D:   Tea Development
Rehabilitation of about 4,800 ha of tea gardens.
Part E:   Agroprocessing
Establishment and improvement of feedmills and facilities for
processing pork, aquatic poultry, tea, resin and raw materials for
feedmills.


﻿- 11 -
Part F:   Training and Technical Assistance
Carrying out of programs of staff development and training to
upgrade research, extension and project management.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 13 -
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required puirsuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as -the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent


﻿- 14 -
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice. will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will nct be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


