Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICaAL USiE ONLY
Report No. 13302
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION CREDIT
(CREDIT 2148- GUI)
JULY 1, 1994
Industry and Energy Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Guinean Francs (GNF)
198                  1994
US$1 = GNF 475       US$1 = GNF 975
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
CAA           Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE          Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CCEF          Comite de Coordination Economique et Financier
CCIAG         Chambre de Commerce
CCDE          Centre de Creation et de Developpement des Entreprises
CFD           Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CFE           Centre de Formalites des Entreprises
CJR           Conseiller Juridique Resident
CNI           Commission National des Investissements
CNPG          Centre National de Perfectionnement a la Gestion
CNPIP         Centre National de Promotion des Investissements Prives
DND           Direction National des Douanes
FAC           Fond d'Aide et de Cooperation
MPF           Ministere du Plan et des Finances
MICPME        Ministere du Plan et des Finances
ONEMO         Office National de l'Emploi et la Main d'Oeuvre
ONPPME        Office National de Promotion des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises
OPIP          Office de Promotion des Investissements Prives
PAGEN         Programme d'Appui a la Gestion de l'Economie Nationale
SAC           Structural Adjustment Credit
SECAC         Sectoral Adjustment Credit
SECAL         Sector Adjustment Loan
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Yer
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wruhington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Offic, of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
July 1, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Republic of Guinea
Private Sector Promotion Credit (Credit 2148-GUI)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Republic of Guinea - Private Sector
Promotion Credit (Credit 2148-GUI) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The Borrower did
not submit a Part II.
This was a US$50 million quick-disbursing, adjustment operation in support of the
Government's Private Sector Promotion Program (PSPP) and its economic reform program.
Approved by the Board in May 1990, it was closed in December 1992, one year after the initial
closing date.
The PSPP was intended to improve Guinea's legal/regulatory framework, to rationalize the
incentive structure, to restructure and reorient several government institutions towards private
sector development, and to undertake financial sector reforms. The ultimate test of the program
was defined in terms of increased private savings and productive investments.
The covenants were complied with, and a number of improvements were made in the legal
and regulatory environment that were well received by private businessmen. Based on this
achievement of its specific objectives, the outcome of the operation is rated as marginally
satisfactory and institutional development impact as modest. The private sector's continuing
skepticism of the Government's commitment to foster a business-friendly environment is reflected
in continued very low rates of private savings and investment. Thus, the sustainability of benefits
is rated as uncertain.
The PCR provides an adequate assessment of the extent to which narrowly-defined
objectives were achieved. It does not however evaluate performance against the more broadly
defined objectives of either (i) the PSPP as set forth in the Letter of Sectoral Policy; or (ii) the
overall adjustment program. In particular, no assessment is made of whether the overall reform
program remained on track during the period of project implementation.
An audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
|'his document has a re tricted distribution and m-ay be used by recipient only in the perfornmance of their official dutiex. Its contents |
mny not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 






FOR OFFICLL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLEIMON REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION CREDIT
(CREDIT 2148-GUI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PagLe No.
PREFACE   ..................................................    i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .......................................  iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE ASSOCIATION'S PERSPECTIVE  ....... 1
A. Project Identity   ..........................................   1
B. Background .............................................   1
Macroeconomic Survey and Overall Economic Objectives ..............  1
Sectoral Policy Context and Development Objectives .................  2
C.  Credit Description and Objectives  ...............................   2
Objectives ............................................ 3
Timing and Innovation of Credit  .............................   3
D. Project Implementation .............                        .........................   4
Implementation Experience .................................   4
Conditionality .......................................... 5
Factors Affecting Implementation    ............................  6
E. Project Results   .          .........................................   7
Project Risks   .         .......................................    10
Factors Affecting Results .................................    10
F. Project Sustainability  .............                     .........................   11
Project Impact ...............1....                        ....................    11
Factors Affecting Project Sustainability and Final Recommendations  ...                    ...   12
PART : PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .... .... 13
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .............                                     ...............   14
A. Related Association Credits ..................................   14
B. Cumulative Credit Disbursements  ..............................   15
C. Mission Data ............................................ 15
D. Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weeks ..................   16
E. Project Results .           .........................................    17
F. Status of Legal Covenants  ...................................    18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION CREDIT
(CREDIT 2148-GUI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Private Sector Promotion Credit to
the Republic of Guinea (Credit 2148-GUI) in the amount of SDR 38.7 million. The Credit
Agreement was approved on May 31, 1990, signed on September 28, 1990, and became
effective on March 15, 1991. At the Borrower's request, the Credit closing date was
extended from December 31, 1991, to September 30, 1992, and finally to December 31,
1992. The last disbursement was made on May 7, 1993.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of the
Occidental and Central Africa Department. The Association has not received Part II of the
PCR.
The PCR is based on the findings of a mission to Conakry from November 1 through 12,
1993, as well as on the President's Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence, interviews with persons involved with the Credit (Government and
Consultants), and internal documents and memoranda in the project files.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION CREDIT
(CREDIT 2148-GUI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The overall objectives of the Private Sector Promotion Credit were to improve the
business environment in Guinea, eliminate constraints to business and promote new
investments. The Credit brought urgent relief to Guinea's balance-of-payments gap of $US
104 million in the 1990-92 period, through the provision of US$50 million of quick-
disbursing funds. Credit proceeds financed the cost of eligible general imports bought by
both the private and public sector, subject to specific restrictions listed in the Credit
Agreement (para. 7). The project was a follow-up to a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC),
and was designed to build on that reform program. More specifically, the credit aimed at
establishing an 'enabling investment environment" by: (a) improving the legal/regulatory
framework; (b) rationalizing the incentive structure; and (c) restructuring the institutional
framework for investment promotion. Furthermore, the Credit aimed at deepening reforms in
the financial sector started under earlier IDA credits (e.g., Credit 1234-GUI), including: (i)
the adjustment of interest rates; (ii) the rationalization of credit markets; and (iii) the
enhancement of the Central Bank's effectiveness (Part I, para. 9).
Implementation Experience
2.    The Credit was organized into two tranches and was distinguished by its limited but
clear conditionalities and objectives. Despite the Credit's straightforward conception, the
Association encountered considerable difficulty and delay in implementing it. These delays
were due to: (a) Government resistance to certain difficult reforms; and (b) a ministerial
dispute over jurisdictional control of an agency reorganized to promote new investments in the
private sector. Disbursement of the second tranche was delayed several months to enable the
Borrower to produce an action plan for legal and judicial reforms, as set out in its Declaration
of Sectoral Policy. At the Borrower's request, the Credit closing date was extended from
December 31, 1991, to September 30, 1992, and finally to December 31, 1992, to permit
fulfillment of all conditions (Part I, paras. 30 and 31).
Project Results
3.     Project results have been mixed. Although the Government has implemented key
reforms which substantially improved the business environment, overall supply response has
been disappointing and following the long history of hostile relations between the private
sector and Government, the private sector remains skeptical of the Government's commitment
to change (Part I, para. 32).



- iv -
4.    Legal/Regulatory Framework. Private businessmen report that the overall
legal/regulatory environment has improved, and that the judicial process follows revised
principles of transparency and predictability which are increasingly internalized. As required
in the Credit Agreement, Commercial licenses (L.C.) have been abolished except for certain
professions, such as lawyers, accountants, physicians, and pharmacists, which continue to be
regulated. A series of measures were adopted to improve the overall legal and regulatory
environment, simplify procedures for creating new business enterprises, and institute a
uniform and centralized enterprise registration system. Recruiting Guinean employees no
longer requires an authorization, although expatriates still must pay a fee and secure
permission from the Office National de l'Emploi et de la Main d'Oeuvre (ONEMO).
However, steps like reporting the creation of new businesses to both the ONEMO and the
Office of Labor Inspection were not abolished, although they should have been, as part of the
Government's efforts to liberalize labor regulations. Finally, the Land Code was enacted, but
its implementation decrees have not yet been issued. The land registration system is now
fully operational in urban Conakry, and properties are currently being surveyed and
computerized (Part I, paras. 33-36).
5.    Incentive Structure. The Reform Program called for legislation specifying: (a)
eligibility criteria for benefits provided under the Investment Code; and (b) that any
convention giving special tax or customs exemptions be reviewed by the National Investment
Commission (CNI) prior to being signed by the Minister of Finance. Hence, two application
texts were issued, but proved to be overly-complicated, and are not being applied. Although
eligibility criteria are now somewhat clearer than before, benefits under the Investment Code
are still granted unevenly and are not automatic. Furthermore, the CNI, initially created to
grant and monitor benefits under special conventions, does not systematically monitor investor
compliance. On the positive side, the Ministry of Plan and Finance (MPF) instituted systems
to monitor the granting of tax exemptions and other fiscal benefits for new investments: no
fiscal exemptions are effective without the MPF's approval. Furthermore, exonerations
granted prior to these reforms are lapsing, and current Government policy is to refrain from
renewing them (Part I, paras. 37-39).
6.    Among the most successful reforms is the customs administration's acquisition of
SYDONIA, the computer software for customs declarations. SYDONIA, financed along with
technical assistance from the Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD) is now fully
operational and has reduced the incidence of tariff fraud. However, other measures such as
the creation of an inspection service, reduction of time required to accomplish customs
procedures, computerized time management of customs declaration, and dissemination of
customs information to relevant ministries have been less successful.
7.    The Government complied with the Credit Agreement's provisions requiring it to
restructure agencies created to promote new investments in the private sector. Thus, the
National Center for the Promotion of Investments (CNPIP) and the National Bureau for the
Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises (ONPPME, formerly known as the Center for
the Creation and Development of Enterprises CCDE) were merged into a new organization:
Office for the Promotion of Private Investments (OPIP). However, infighting between
Government departments prevented the restructured OPIP from being fully effective. Until
now, OPIP has had no resources to implement its mandate and the effectiveness of its
management was questionable. However, the newly appointment Assistant Director has been



instrumental in preparing a comprehensive work program for OPIP, helping clarify its terms
of reference, and boosting staff morale. Other agencies created to help the private sector
seem less likely than OPIP to succeed in the short run. The Chamber of Commerce, for
example, continues to be ineffective in mobilizing the private sector and in promoting
commercial activity due to its lack of financial resources and qualified and motivated staff
(Part I, paras. 42 and 43).
8.     Financial Sector Reforms. The Credit initially set out to establish an appropriate
policy environment for financial sector development, hence deepening previous
accomplishments in the areas of interest rate reforms, rationalization of credit markets, and
enhancements to the Central Bank's supervision functions. Because it was felt that sufficient
progress was achieved during the preparation of this Project, the Credit Agreement contained
no specific conditions relating to financial sector reforms. However, it is now felt that
current conditions in the financial sector justify further reforms. Such reforms are now
included in a financial sector adjustment credit which is in preparation (Part I, para. 44).
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.     Despite the Government's many reforms and achievements, the Credit has so far
failed to trigger a supply response in the formal private sector. This is primarily due to three
factors. First, while this credit provided assistance for the balance of payments - facilitating
imports and easing the role of the Central Bank in providing foreign exchange, it could not,
by its nature, provide direct incentives to other agencies involved in the implementation of
changes under the program. To maximize the impact of future PSD operations, consideration
should be given to investment instruments. Second, considerable in-fighting within
Government paralyzed the implementation of key reforms envisioned in the Credit, and
delayed the creation of investment-promotion agencies like CCDE and the Centre de
Formalites des Entreprises (CFE). In future operations, the Government's commitment, along
with its action plan to implement difficult reforms, should be obtained prior to Board
presentation. Third, Guinea's difficult inheritance from the previous regime has deeply
scarred the private sector, hindering the supply response. Therefore, the project's
achievements should be measured only after sufficient time is allowed for the private sector to
regain full confidence in the economy, and to react more favorably to the Government's pro-
private sector policies (Part I, paras. 49 -51).
10.    This project confirmed the importance of conducting in-depth internalization work
during project preparation. Much time and effort was consumed with the Government during
meetings of the Comite de Coordination Economique et Financier (CCEF) to discuss project
goals and the necessity of reforms. This required an enormous, yet unavoidable, investment
of time by IDA staff to inform the Government and the private sector of the rationale and
urgency of reforms, and to obtain the former's commitment to these changes. In fact, this
Credit demonstrated conclusively that, with sufficient preparatory work, it is possible to
generate a consensus between IDA, the Government, and the private sector on issues affecting
private sector development (Part I, para. 49).
11.    Another important lesson from this project is the importance of concentrating on a few
essentials, and resisting pressure to overload a project with conditions. This project had a few



- vi -
clear and attainable objectives, whose implementation was manageable from the standpoint of
both the Borrower and the Association (Part I, para. 30).
Sustainablity
12.   Private Sector Development is a continuing process, and although structural reforms
of the overall business environment are critical, these reforms must be accompanied by
actions designed to stimulate more directly the private sector's supply response. This Credit
had a positive impact at the level of the business environment, and should be followed by
further actions to encourage formal sector activity, and entrepreneurship. For instance, it did
not address the informal sector, which is a dynamic element of Guinea's private sector.
Attention needs to be given to encouraging the informal sector to "formalize" through policies
to reduce barriers and distortions (Part I, paras. 53-58).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION CREDIT
(CREDIT 2148-GUI)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE ASSOCIATION'S PERSPECTIVE
PROJECT IDENTITY
Name         -      Private Sector Promotion Project (PSPP)
Number       -      2148-GUI
RVP Unit    -        AFR
Country       -     Republic of Guinea
Sector       -      Private Sector Development
BACKGROUND
1.    Macroeconomic Survey and Overall Economic Objectives. From Guinea's
independence in 1958 until 1984, the Government managed the economy through a pervasive
system of state monopolies and controls. Guinea's private manufacturing sector was
displaced, and replaced with a pervasive network of state-owned enterprises in all sectors of
the economy. Deteriorating conditions caused Guinea, once a major exporter of agricultural
products, to become a net food importer in the mid-1970s, and finally forced the country's
switch to subsistence agriculture in the 1980s. The currency became overvalued, under the
constant pressure of the inefficient public sector, and resulted in grave misallocation of
resources and disincentives to export. The economy, which had grown increasingly
dependent on its foreign exchange earnings from exporting bauxite and alumina, became
unsustainable as mounting debts resulted in massive arrears. Furthermore, the financial
sector, which had demonstrated its inability to mobilize domestic savings under the skewed
policy environment, led to overreliance on external financing and to a progressively heavier
debt burden. As the private sector vanished, the civil service rolls became grossly inflated.
The Government's fiscal position, which had worsened considerably since 1980, became
disastrous by 1985, as the foreign liabilities and arrears accumulated at the level of the
Central Bank exceeded US $300 million. The results were: (a) a rate of economic growth
well below that of the population; (b) a failure to occasion desired modernization and
industrialization of the economy; (c) increasing pauperization of the population; (d) the
prosperity of a vibrant informal sector which continued to thrive on clandestine import-export
activities, involving commerce of smuggled or stolen goods, and private transfers from
abroad.
2.    Established in April 1984, Guinea's second republic inherited the task of reviving the
moribund economy. The new regime embarked upon a radical, and in many respects,
unprecedented program of economic and financial reforms. The over-riding objective of the
reforms was to: (a) reverse deterioration of the economy and redress financial imbalances; and
(b) replace the old system of state controls and government intervention with a policy
framework supportive of a market-oriented economy. More specifically, the reform program



- 2 -
included the following key policies: (a) correction of the overvaluation of the currency; (b)
establishment of a new banking system; (c) liberalization of prices; (d) liberalization of
internal and external commercial and trade activities; (e) improvement of the institutional and
legal framework for private investment, including the promulgation of investment, commercial
and labor codes; and (f) size reduction and efficiency improvement of the public sector,
including some privatizations. This program was supported by the IMF in the form of two
Standby Arrangements, and a Structural Adjustment Facility, and the Association under a two
Structural Adjustment Credits cofinanced by other donors.
3.    Until 1990, the economy reacted well to this initial program of reforms. Reforms
were such that they could easily be managed centrally and implemented with ease, and
encouraging results began to be observed. GDP grew by a commendable 6 percent in real
terms in 1987, and by over 5 percent in 1988, while inflation fell from 72 percent in 1986 to
27 percent in 1988, and the country's long economic decline gave signs of having been
reversed. In principle, the stage had been set for long-term recovery in key sectors such as
agriculture, construction, trading, and services sectors. Shortages that characterized the pre-
reform period were eased or eliminated.
4.    The Government's overall economic objectives as indicated in its Policy Framework
Paper, were to: (a) reach a sustainable growth rate of 5% per year for the 1990-1992 period;
(b) gradually reduce the rate of inflation to 10% at the end of the period; (c) avoid any
appreciation of the real exchange rate; and (d) reduce the account deficit to an average of
5.1 % of GDP over the period, while helping restore the level of available foreign exchange
reserves to the equivalent of 4.3 months worth of imports.
5.    Sectoral Policy Context and Development Objectives. Despite the introduction by the
Govermnent of significant macroeconomic reforms, much remained to be done and sustainable
growth in most productive sectors would have been difficult without a coordinated set of
private sector environment reforms. The business climate in Guinea continued to be
unfavorable, contributing to uncertainty among private economic operators and low levels of
investment. As major constraints to continued economic progress, Guinea's 1990 Economic
Memorandum cited the urgent need to: (a) develop competencies in the private and public
sector; (b) increase Government revenues to provide essential services; (c) end corruption; (d)
increase the efficiency of remaining Government-provided services; and (e) promote private
sector confidence in the business environment and encourage investments in productive
activities.
CREDIT DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES
6.    Having paved the way for the complete reorientation of its role in the economy from
one of systematic control and hostility towards private interests, to a more pragmatic and pro-
business one, in theory, the Government increased the likelihood of success of its envisioned
private sector reforms. In order to bring about a sustained supply response from the private
sector and to meet the ambitious growth targets it had set for itself, the Government decided
to intensify its efforts to improve the business environment in the context of reforms contained
in this PSD Credit. These reforms involved a complex process of institutional reforms, and
improvement in private sector/Government relations through significant attitude changes on
both sides.



- 3 -
7.    Credit proceeds were to provide urgent relief to Guinea's balance-of-payments gap of
$US 104 million in the 1990-92 period, through the provision of US$50 million of quick-
disbursing funds available against general imports, and indirectly through a stimulus to
foreign capital inflows. Credit proceeds financed the cost of eligible imports sought by both
the private and public sectors, subject to a negative list and other restrictions. It was
envisioned that a third SAC planned for 1992 could, in conjunction with cofinancing, help
meet Guinea's financing needs in 1992-93.
8.    Reforms supported by the Credit were to complement:
(a)   the macroeconomic policies supported by two previous SACs, and two
companion Economic Management Support Projects (EMSP-I and II) which
provided targeted technical assistance; and
(b)   the second-year arrangements of an IMF structural adjustment facility (SAF)
that came onstream in 1989.
Objectives
9.    This Credit aimed broadly at boosting the confidence of domestic and foreign
investors, giving new impetus to private investment in Guinea by:
(a)   removing the legal and regulatory constraints to private sector growth;
(b)    reducing Government interference in the daily activities of business;
(c)    eliminating arbitrary privileges and exemptions, thus increasing competition;
(d)   increasing support for private sector development within Government; and
(e)   increasing the Banking sector's ability to provide necessary financial services
as well as financing to economic operators.
10.   Co-financing, The operation had important implication for Guinea's overall strategy,
and thus attracted strong interest from the donor community. In particular, the CFD, whose
observer participated in the Credit negotiations, financed technical and other assistance to
strengthen the National Investment Commission and the acquisition of computer software and
equipment for the Customs administration. The Fond d'Aide et d'Assistance (FAC) financed
for its part technical assistance, training, and equipment for the judiciary system. USAID
provided long term assistance to the BCRG for bank supervision and for the collection of
balance of payments statistics. UNDP, offered technical assistance to the Ministry of Labor's
National Employment Office.
Timing and Innovation of Credit.
11.   The Borrower made a courageous commitment to legal reform at a time when support
for those reforms was scarce. Guinea's readiness for legal reforms appeared uncertain, and



- 4 -
there were concerns that the reforms proposed under the Credit were too advanced for the
country to handle. Some Government officials feared that these legal reforms could not be
sustained, as the country could not simultaneously undergo a complete overhaul of its business
law environment while the Loi Fondamentale (Guinea's constitution) was being prepared and
legal institutions evolved constantly. This process of legal reforms is being continued, and
has evolved considerably during preparation of the proposed financial sector adjustment
operation.
12.   Given the fact that private sector development is a long-term process involving
attitude changes, it is not surprising that progress on legal reforms was sometimes slow, and
that a private sector supply response and new investments were somewhat lacking.
Nonetheless, significant pro-private sector attitude changes have been observed within
Government agencies (ONEMO, OPIP, BCRG, etc.), which should contribute in restoring the
confidence of the private sector.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation Experience.
13.   Borrower Performance. The Cellule Technique (CT) of the CCEF was designated to
ensure effective implementation of the program by the Borrower. The CT met regularly, and
advised consistently the CCEF on reforms included in the letter of Sector Policy. It is clear
that the CT benefitted from strong support at the highest level of Government, especially from
the Governor of the Central Bank, the Minister of Plan and Finance, and the Minister of
Justice.
14.   Although reforms were put in place in accordance with the conditions of the Credit
Agreement and the objectives stated in the Government's Declaration of Sectoral Policy, the
Government failed to pursue forcefully the implementation of some reforms. For example,
although the Customs administration purchased and newly recruited customs officers currently
use the SYDONIA customs declaration software, the Government still does not require that
older customs officers use the software as well. Consequently, the software's use has not
generated the overall productivity gains, nor has it reduced the incidence of customs
declaration fraud that it has the potential to do.
15.   Association Performance. IDA supervision of the Credit was carried out through a
series of short missions to Guinea (Part III). These missions aimed generally to assess
progress in the various reforms agreed upon under the Credit Agreement, and to verify that
conditions for disbursement of the second tranche were met.
16.   As the anticipated second tranche release date approached, the pace of activities and
Borrower-Association communications related to the Credit increased measurably. However,
the second tranche was not released until December of 1992 to give the Borrower additional
time to prepare a satisfactory draft action plan required to tackle systematic weaknesses in the
judiciary which impact negatively on and constrain the development of the private sector.
17.   A criticism that the Borrower addressed to the Association concerned the lack of
continuity in the project's supervision as task managers changed. Another Borrower



observation was that the Association had a tendency to react slowly to requests by the
Borrower to issue its clearance on disbursement requests. The Association should be sensitive
to the Borrower's assertions, by promoting: (a) continuity in the Association's supervision
through fewer changes in task managers; and (b) shorter response times to Borrower requests.
18.    Overall, however, the supervision of this Credit by both the Government and the
Association was effective. The Resident Mission in Conakry provided regular, thorough,
feedback on the program's progress, as well as on critical developments in the field.
Conditionality
19.   The Credit was divided into two equal tranches, the first to be released upon
effectiveness, and the second upon satisfactory progress in implementing selected actions
agreed upon by the Government. Although the funds supplied under this Credit were placed
with the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea in the name of the Treasury, overall
responsibility for the implementation of this operation rested with the monitoring unit (CT).
20.    Project conditionalities were designed to change the country's overall business
environment and financial sector. Those for the financial sector were relaxed as they had
been satisfied when the Credit was prepared. However, changing conditions, now require
further reforms, which are being considered in a Financial Sector Adjustment Credit under
preparation.
21.    Conditions of Board presentation required the Borrower to adopt legislation:
(a)    abolishing licensing requirements for commercial businesses, and limiting
requirements to regulated professions only (e.g., lawyers, doctors, dentists,
accountants, etc.);
(b)    specifying eligibility criteria for benefits provided under the investment code;
and
(c)    specifying that any convention awarding special tax or customs privileges be
reviewed by the National Investment Commission (CNI) prior to being signed
by the Minister of Finance.
22.    These conditions were met, and the Credit was approved by the Board on May 29,
1990.
23.    Conditions of effectiveness required:
(a)    the adoption of a detailed action plan, consistent with the principles set forth
in the Program, to streamline the institutional framework for investment
promotion, and establishment of an enterprise registration center; and
(b)    the issue of regulations satisfactory to the Association, to implement the Labor
Code; and



- 6 -
(c)   limiting the role of the ONEMO to that of a statistical center.
24.   These conditions were met and the project was declared effective on March 15, 1991.
25.    Conditions for second tranche release included the presentation of evidence
satisfactory to the Association that the Borrower had achieved satisfactory progress in carrying
out the Program, and that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower was
consistent with the objectives of the Program, including:
(a)    adoption of land legislation recognizing private ownership, and setting up a
system of title registration and publication;
(b)   implementation of the first phase of the customs reform program set forth in
the Program; and
(c)    establishment of the new institutional investment promotion structure and
appointment of key staff.
26.   These conditions were fulfilled by the Government and the second tranche
disbursement was authorized on December 11, 1992.
27.   Disbursement and Procurement. Serious implementation problems arose in the
context of goods purchased with financing from the Association and other international donor
agencies, which do not allow for the payment of taxes. In those cases, private promoters
benefitting from the availability of such financing had to be exonerated from taxes and import
duties, despite the recent move to rationalize the overall fiscal structure. Although current
Guinean laws do not reflect this, a new one is anticipated to do so.
28.   Reporting and Auditine. Audits were carried out for both the first and second
tranches. The borrower was offered suggestions for improving its record-keeping practices,
but failed to implement them until after the Credit's final audit.
29.   A final audit of the Credit was concluded in August of 1993. It revealed that: (a) the
Borrower failed to monitor disbursements per product category; and (b) refinancing requests
were not kept current. In response, the Borrower instituted a system requiring that all
refinancing requests contain a summary "status sheet," and undergo two reviews prior to
submission for IDA reimbursement.
Factors Affecting Implementation.
30.   Credit conditionalities were few and succinct and aimed at focusing the Borrower's
attention on issues essential to project implementation. When difficult reforms became
necessary, what was initially a virtue of the project's design, eventually became a fault, as the
Government resisted the Association's efforts to ensure the implementation of these reforms.
For example, the Credit Agreement specified that benefits offered under the Investment Code
should be clarified. It was not until September of 1992, that application decrees were
prepared for the Code, though they did not bring the level of clarity to it that was initially
envisioned.



- 7 -
31.   Another factor that affected implementation involved internal battles relating to the
new investment promotion structure. Some reforms called for the establishment, elimination,
or role redefinition of various Government agencies, such as ONEMO and OPIP. These
reforms took longer than expected because agencies and specific Ministries resisted changes
that divested them of some jurisdictional prerogatives, e.g., the Ministry of Commerce
resisted relinquishing control over OPIP's predecessor in favor of the Ministry of Plan and
Finance; the CFE (one-stop-window for enterprise creation) had to be located in the Ministry
of Justice because jurisdictional battles among relevant ministries threatened the very creation
of the one-stop-window; ONEMO resisted changes that diminished its prerogatives from
controlling employment to barely monitoring employment statistics.
PROJECT RESULTS.
32.   General, Despite the difficulties described above, the Government implemented the
specific measures included in the Credit, and the overall results of the project are positive.
The reforms implemented under this project have clearly deepened the gains of the two
previous SACs and their two companion EMSPs (I and II). However the anticipated supply
response from the private sector has been disappointing, and it is expected that it will take
time before the private sector reacts favorably to the improved business environment.
33.   Legal/Regulatory Framework Reforms. Despite the absence of a supply response,
many private sector operators report overall improvements to the legal and business
environment that are evidenced by the increasingly internalized transparency and predictability
of the judicial system. Commercial licenses were abolished for all, except the regulated
professions (lawyers, physicians, pharmacists, accountants, huissiers, etc.) However, Guinea
still has a long way to go in order to have a fully credible and well functioning judicial
system. Additional assistance needed to sustain the pace of reforms in this area has been
included in the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit.
34.   A detailed action plan for streamlining the administrative and legal procedures
creating and operating enterprises was prepared and submitted to the Association. However,
there is room for improvement. For example, redundant steps could be eliminated if a single
company identification number were attributed to new enterprises registered in the CFE.
35.   Limiting the role of ONEMO into a strictly statistical one was another condition of
the Credit Agreement. This condition was technically achieved with respect to domestic job
seekers. Some promoters felt that ONEMO had outlived its usefulness, and should be
eliminated altogether. Because employment agencies were liberalized effectively, with new
entrants into this field in the Conakry area, that position may be extreme. ONEMO could be
maintained provided it holds no monopoly over the field of employment agencies, but
becomes an entity committed to promoting employment through education, job-search
training, and employment data storage and dissemination.
36.   The Credit Agreement also called for land reforms and the adoption of appropriate
legislation. Although legislation was passed, the application texts are still not enacted. A
land registration system which relies on computer technology has been established. However,
the system is perceived by some critics as overly sophisticated, requiring extensive training of



- 8 -
Guinean nationals to eventually assure its management. Until such training is completed it
will be necessary to maintain the technical assistance.
37.   Reforms of the Incentive and Institutional Structure. Application texts were adopted
to clarify the investment code. However, they remain overly complicated, and benefit
regimes are still not directly linked to the tax laws. Furthermore, investment benefits devoid
of budgetary impact are not automatic as initially envisioned, because the CNI's prior
approval must be obtained before they vest.
38.   Under the preferential regime afforded exporters, the Investment Code and its
application texts require complex calculations. Under the incentive regime for small- and
medium-sized enterprises, benefits are given only to Guinean promoters, excluding foreign
investors, thus defeating the purpose of an open policy. Under all regimes, fiscal benefits are
not systematically phased in and out, causing investors to be financially destabilized. Finally,
conventions for the establishment of new enterprises are negotiated on a case by case basis
because the Code has no applicable provisions. This creates uncertainty among private sector
promoters who cannot determine in advance whether they are entitled to specific exemptions.
The law needs to provide or deny benefits on a more systematic and equitable basis.
39.   More importantly, the Government does not manage and monitor the benefits that it
has previously granted. Significant abuses were reported by the CNI, involving cases where
goods and equipment imported into Guinea under preferential duty regimes were diverted to
uses other than those for which they were intended. In some instances, equipment was
imported into Guinea and then simply sold. As required in the Agreement, all special tax
exemptions must be approved by the CNI before ratification by the Minister of Plan and
Finances. However, there are still cases where ministries, other than the Ministry of Plan and
Finance, authorize special investment incentive packages which have a budgetary impact.
40.   The customs reforms were implemented, and the SYDONIA import/export duties
software is now fully operational. Despite the obvious advantages of computerizing customs
administration and transactions, Government provided little support for it. Significant
budgetary savings have been realized as revenue losses from improper collection practices by
the customs administration were reduced. Although the basic training necessary to operate
this software was completed, more training is required in the complexities of SYDONIA. It
would be useful to promote training for Guinean programmers who could become familiar
with SYDONIA's code, and use the software to its maximum potential. Because there is
continued resistance from older generation customs' officers to SYDONIA and to the
software's forced transparency, priority should be given to training new recruits as customs
officers to work exclusively with this system.
41.   CNPIP and ONPPME were merged into one institution (OPIP) only after considerable
disputes over which Ministry would ultimately take control. The Minister of Commerce,
Industry, and Small- and Medium-Enterprises insisted on preserving control over the
ONPPME (eventually renamed CCDE), while the Minister of Plan felt the same way about
CNPIP. It was not until September 14, 1992 that OPIP was created, merging these two
agencies, as proposed in the Credit. At the time this report was prepared, OPIP's mission
was still unclear, and the Agency lacked the resources for its normal operations. However, a
new Assistant Director was recently appointed and it is expected that this addition to OPIP's



- 9 -
higher level management team will increase the institution's effectiveness in promoting the
private sector. A statement of OPIP's objectives has been prepared at his initiative and is
now used to measure the agency's performance.
42.   Despite a series of recent reforms to strengthen the Chamber of Commerce,
(including the overhaul of its by-laws; the holding of consular national elections; the
publication of the third Annuaire des Societes Industrielles, Commerciales et Agricoles de
Guinee; and the acquisition of computer equipment with the financial support of UNDP), the
Chamber continues to lack adequate basic resources and trained staff to carry out its work
program. With regard to the argument that it would be efficient to merge OPIP and the
Chamber of Commerce, Guinean authorities point out that there is an important distinction
between OPIP and the Chamber of Commerce which should be preserved: the Chamber of
Commerce is an advocacy group representing and elected by private sector promoters that
happens to provide logistical support in specific areas, whereas the OPIP is a government
agency. Whether OPIP and the Chamber of Commerce are merged into one agency or not, it
should be the Bank's recommendation that each of these institutions' role be more clearly
defined, and that they be given adequate financial and human resources. Although it is
preferable that the Chamber of Commerce be private-sector-led and financed, the attitude of
the private sector has been as difficult to change as that of Government. Many private sector
operators value the services provided to them by the Chamber of Commerce, but they view
them as entitlements and not as a service for which they have to pay. Without abandoning the
objective of making the Chamber of Commerce financially self-sufficient, it may be preferable
and more effective in the long-run to opt for gradually increasing financial contributions by
the private sector.
43.   Financial Sector Reforms. The Credit initially set out to establish an appropriate
policy environment for financial sector development, hence deepening previous
accomplishments in the areas of interest rate reforms, rationalization of credit markets, and
enhancements to the Central Bank's supervision functions. However, during project
preparation, the Central Bank had taken a number of steps in the right direction. Interest
bearing savings accounts were introduced in 1988, and the minimum rate on time deposits
was increased from 17 to 19 percent in January of 1989, and to 21 percent in September.
Furthermore, the Central Bank agreed to review twice yearly the interest rates to ensure
progress towards remunerating savings and time deposits with a positive real interest rates. In
January 1989, the Central Bank rationalized Guinea's credit markets by: (a) consolidating and
simplifying the various discount/refinancing windows open to commercial banks, in addition
to increasing the cost of resources to the banks; and (b) signing an agreement with the
Treasury restricting the Treasury's access to cash advances at the Central Bank. Finally, the
Central Bank took important steps in enhancing its capacity to monitor, control, and supervise
the banking sector through the adoption of a standard reporting format to be used by the
commercial banks in their quarterly submissions to the Central Bank, along with other
reforms (e.g., establishment of a risk management unit). Because it was felt that the Central
Bank achieved considerable progress in reforming the banking sector during the preparation of
this project, the Credit Agreement contained no specific conditions relating to financial sector
reforms. However, it is now felt that current conditions in the financial sector justify further
reforms. Such reforms are now included in a financial sector adjustment credit which is
under preparation.



- 10-
Prject Risks,
44.   Two risks were predicted at the time of appraisal, namely, that:
(a)    given the traditionally negative Government and administration attitudes
towards the private sector, the proposed set of reforms would not be
implemented in a forceful manner, and would possibly be disregarded by
officials in daily contact with the private sector; and
(b)    despite the new measures, the private sector supply response would not be
forthcoming if the business environment remained unfavorable and the private
sectors' confidence was not restored.
45.   The first risk was thought to be offset by the level of commitment at the highest level
of Government to implement the reform program. Furthermore, considerable internalization
was done during project preparation to ensure Guinean ownership of the reform program.
The technical unit of the CCEF with its multi-sectoral representation, was given the
responsibility of coordinating and supervising the implementation of the program. Finally,
the project also received support from other donor agencies in the form of technical assistance
to improve Government responsiveness to private sector needs. For example, CFD financed
computer equipment and technical assistance to the customs administration to implement the
SYDONIA import and export software, which is now fully operational.
46.   The second risk reflected the private sector's reluctance to participate in the formal
economy because of the constrained business environment and a long history of hostile
relationship with the Government. Since attitudes needed to change on both the sides of
Government and the private sector, it was expected that it would take some time before there
was some response from the private sector. This has been confirmed, and indeed, the private
sector is still maintaining its wait-and-see attitude.
47.   A third risk, not anticipated during project preparation, but which became evident
during implementation, related to internal battles within Government itself, particularly on the
institutional framework to support private sector development.
Factors Affecting Results
48.   SECALs have the limitation that proceeds do not benefit the agencies concerned
directly. Commitment to changes are therefore difficult to obtain from these agencies, and
considerable time must be invested to ensure that they understand the importance of specific
reforms, and the benefits that may accrue therefrom. Although in-depth internalization work
was conducted in this project, which yielded progress in changing civil servants' attitudes
towards Private Sector Development, a lot more needs to be done.
49.   Private sector promotion programs should not be expected to produce results
overnight. To be effective, these reforms must cover several substantive areas, and typically
involve the simultaneous cooperation of several Government agencies. A progressive change
in outlook must be achieved among various groups of economic actors -be they in the private
sector or Government - who need to learn to think about each other in terms of cooperation



- 11 -
and mutual support before results may be seen. As this did not happen at first, there were
unavoidable delays in generating needed reforms, and in encouraging a private sector supply
response.
50.    The long history of mutually hostile attitudes held by the private sector and the
Government has seriously damaged private sector confidence in the Government's
commitment to reform the business environment. Thus, the Government's current program of
macro-economic reforms needs to be complemented by direct actions designed to elicit a
private sector supply response. Such actions should include programs designed to benefit
directly the private sector through training to develop and sharpen entrepreneurial skills,
mentoring programs, access to small business loans, etc. Programs targeted at micro-
enterprises are currently implemented by PRIDE (an NGO) in the Conakry area. A program
similar to PRIDE's could be prepared and implemented for the benefit of small- and medium-
size enterprises.
51.   It should also be noted that many of the reforms focused on the formal private sector.
The formal sector is presently a static part of the economy; it is the informal sector which is
blossoming. Clearly, the Government should seek ways to bring the informal sector into the
mainstream through the removal of distortions. Considerable work remains to be done to
demonstrate to the Government that the private sector environment must be made more
attractive in order to entice firms to "formalize" spontaneously. It is important to continue
stressing to the Government the need to encourage the "formalization" process through pujl
factors (e.g., lowering barriers to entry, leveling the tax burden, etc.) rather than push factors
(e.g., increasing special taxation and bureaucratic harassment of informal sector firms).
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Project Impact
52.    At the macro level, the impact of the project was positive in that all reforms that were
specifically named were implemented. As a result, the private sector may now evolve in an
environment that is far friendlier than it ever was in Guinea. The basic institutions that were
envisioned to be created as part of the Credit were in fact created, or restructured, but they
remain ineffective for reasons enumerated previously. Although private sector support
institutions like the Chamber of Commerce are still ineffective due to a lack of means and
resources, others that previously lacked direction (OPIP) now seem to be recovering from
staffing problems.
53.    At the sectoral level, however, a sustained effort is required to ensure that a private
sector supply response materializes. To encourage the process of "formalization," positive
incentives should be provided to the growing informal segment of the private sector.
54.    The program succeeded not only in establishing the importance of the private sector as
an engine of growth and prosperity, but also in increasing the Government's awareness of the
importance of a favorable overall business environment.



- 12 -
55.   The Credit had a positive impact on the labor market. The Labor Code was
redrafted, although its application texts are not yet in force. ONEMO saw its role reoriented
from one of control over the labor market into one of providing job search training and
information for Guinean job seekers. ONEMO's transformation to date signifies a great
improvement, although the agency is still a measure away from being only a statistical center.
Expatriates employed in Guinea denounced ONEMO for "ransoming foreigners."
56.   Enterprise creation is simpler, but still somewhat costly, whether using or not the one-
stop window of the CFE. Despite significant improvements that can be traced to this Credit,
there remain agents within Government that still have not adopted a client-oriented approach
to dealing with the private sector. Among the improvements that have resulted from the
Credit, however, are an increased awareness of the private sector among Government
officials, and the lessening of hostility toward the private sector within these agencies (e.g.,
courts of law are now less hostile towards the private sector, and have begun issuing
judgements that do not systematically discriminate against businesses).
Factors affecting Project Sustainability and Final Recommendations.
57.   Sustainability can be achieved if and only if this Credit does not sound the end of the
Borrower's interest in promoting private initiative in Guinea, and the Borrower continues to
undertake direct actions designed specifically to elicit a private sector supply response. Three
categories of actions should be considered at this time:
(a)    educate and inform the private sector about the improvements to the
environment and to specific institutions that were achieved under the Credit.
Interest in strengthening legal institutions and in particular the judiciary should
be pursued. There have been enough such achievements to justify a media
campaign;
(b)    remedy situations identified in this paper by:
(i)    enabling institutions like OPIP and the Chamber of Commerce to raise
their own resources from the private sector, or be funded on a
declining basis with public funds; and
(ii)   continuing the process of fine-tuning the reforms that were completed
under this Credit (e.g., redo the application texts for the Investment
Code with a view to increasing their simplicity and level of
automatization in the granting of benefits to new investments, continue
efforts to increase sensitivity to private sector needs within
Government circles, etc.);
(c)   identify areas of intervention for the Borrower and the Association whereby a
meaningful private sector supply response may be elicited through direct
economic stimuli. Such activities could include availing entrepreneurial
training as is currently being done by NGOs like PRIDE in Conakry, along
with access to capital and other important services. There is also a need to
conduct specific sector studies, currently addressed in part under the proposed
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2148-GUI)
PART nI: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
By letter dated 16 July 1993, the Guinean authorities were formally requested to
prepare a Project Completion Report from their perspective. This has not been received.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2148-GUI)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Original Credit Amount:    $50.000 million (38,700 SDR)
Disbursed Amount:          $53.120 million (38,700 SDR)
Stage of Project Cycle     Date Completed
Initiating Memorandum      05/24/89
Appraisal and Preparation  03/19/90
Negotiations Completed     04/09-13/90
Board Approval             05/31/90
Credit Agreement           09/28/90
Effectiveness              03/15/91
Second Tranche Release     12/11/92
Credit Closing             12/31/92
Accounts Closed            05/07/93
A.    Related Association Credits
Credit and Title    Purpos                                    Ye
Approved
Cr. 1963-GUI      Support Government in managing the economy     1988   Closed
Projet d'Appui a    by availing technical assistance in critical areas
la Gestion de     (restructuring of institutions (ministries),
I'Economie II     drafting of economic legislation, rationalization
(PAGEN)           of civil service roles, etc.), and in improving
the civil service through institutional
ameliorations and career development
(including training).
Cr. 1234-GUI      Support Government's industrial strategy by    1982   Closed
Industrial        strengthening the private sector, improve
Rehabilitation and   performance of selected state enterprises, and
Small- and        strengthen institutions responsible for
Medium-Scale      developing policies for the industrial sector and
Enterprise Project  for preparing projects suitable for financing.
Make term credit available for equipment, and
technical assistance to small- and medium-
enterprises.



- 15 -
Credit and Title    Purpos                                 Y
Approved
Cr. 1659-GUI     Support Government's economic recovery    1986       Closed
Structural       program and allow economic activity to expand
Adjustment Credit  by focussing adjustment program on economic
liberalization, and reform of public
administration and enterprises.
Cr. 1926-GUI     Support second phase of Government's      1988       Closed
Second Structural  economic and financial reform program, and
Adjustment Credit  address key constraints on Guinea's medium
term growth potential. Improve public finance
management; further restructure public
enterprises; reinforce the incentive structure to
favor the private sector.
B.    Cumulative Credit Disbursements (US$)
Period Dates        Disbursements    Cum. Disbursements    % Disbursed
01/01/91 - 03/31/91                0.00                0.00              0.0
04/01/91 - 06/30/91        15,151,102.00       15,151,102.00            29.2
07/01/91 - 09/30/91                0.00        15,151,102.00            29.2
10/01/91 - 12/31/91        10,948,687.04       26,009,789.04            49.8
01/01/92 - 03/31/92           110,762.60       26,210,551.64            50.0
04/01/92 - 06/30/92                0.00        26,210,551.64            50.0
07/01/92 - 09/30/92                0.00        26,210,551.64            50.0
10/01/92 - 12/31/92         7,687,981.83       33,898,533.47            64.3
01/01/93 - 03/31/93        10,171,987.41       44,070,520.88             83.5
04/01/93 - 06/30/93         9,049,543.32       53,120,064.20           100.00
C.    Mission Data
Mission           End Dat      No. Persons    Staff Wks. in    Rrt
(Month/Year)                    Eield
Before Appraisal           4/88            2             2.0         4/29/88
9/88           3             2.0         10/12/88
3/89           4             2.5         3/7/89
Appraisal - Board          6/89            2             2.0         7/9/89
Approval                   11/89           1             1.5         11/1/89



- 16 -
Mission          End Dat      No. Persons    StaffWks, in    Report
(Month/Year)                   Eield
Supervision      .        02/90          4             1.2       08/24/90
11/90          1             1.0       08/23/91
10/91          1            0.2        10/28/91
02/92          2             1.9       03/02/92
07/92          2             3.0       09/15/92
D.   Staff Inputs by Stage of Proiect Cycle in Staff Weeks
Stageof Cycle h    8      87     82    2Q    21    2    X2    24  TItai
Pre-appraisal    3.5  31.4  27.2  46.6                               108.7
Appraisal                        1.4   33.5                          34.9
Negotiations                           3.2                           3.2
Supervision                            3.3   12.2  9.7  21.9         47.1
PCR                                                            10.4  10.4
Total          3.5  31.4  27.2  48.0  40.0  12.2  9.7  21.9  10.4  204.3



- 17 -
E.      Project Results
Conditionalities                                               Sat
Board Prescntation
(a) Elimination of licensing requirements for commercial businesses, except for regulated professions  Met.
(e.g., lawyers, doctors, dentists, accountants, etc.);
(b) Clarification of eligibility criteria for benefits provided under the investment code; and         Met.
(c) Application of policy requiring that any convention awarding special tax or customs privileges be  Met.
reviewed by the National Investment Commission (CNI) prior to being signed by the Minister of
Finance.
Effectiveness
(a) Adoption of a detailed action plan, consistent with the principles set forth in the Program, to
streamline the institutional framework for investment promotion, and establishment of an enterprise  Met.
registration center;
(b) Adoption of regulations satisfactory to the Association, to implement the Labor Code; and          Met.
(c) Limitation of the role of the Office National de l'Emvloi et de la Main d'Oeuvre (ONEMO) to that of    Met.
a statistical center.
Second Tranche Release
(a) Adoption of land legislation recognizing private ownership, and setting up a system of title
registration and publication;                                                                      Met.
(b) implementation of the first phase of the customs reform program set forth in the Program; and      Met.
(c) establishment of the new institutional investment promotion structure and appointment of key staff.  Met.



- 18 -
F.      Status of Legal Covenants
Section                                    Covenant                                       Status
1.01(b)    Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be  Not complied
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower   with.
shaU prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program
referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
2.01(b)    The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in U.S.    In full
DoUars a special account in its central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory    compliance.
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.01       (a)      The Borrower and the Association shaU from time to time, at the    In ful
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in  compliance.
carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 of the
Agreement.
(b)     Prior to each exchange of views, the Borrower shaU furnish to the   In fuU
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress    compliance.
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
3.02       Procurement of the Goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shaU    In fuU
be govemed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.               compliance.
3.03       (a)      The Borrower shaU maintain or cause to be maintained records and   In fuU
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained    compliance.
sound accounting practices the expenditures of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b)(i)   The Borrower shaU have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of  In fuU
this Section including the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,    compliance.
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
(ii)    The Borrower shaU fumish to the Association as soon as available but in  Not in fuU
any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a  compliance.
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shaU have reasonably requested.
(iii)   The Borrower shaU furnish to the Association such other information  In fuU
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the  compliance.
Association shall from time to time request.



- 19 -
i2n                                        Covenant                   St               a     u
3.03       (c)(i)   For all expcnditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit   In fuU
Account were made on the basis of statements of expcnditure, the   compliance.
Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paagraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii)    Borrower shaU retain until at least one year after the Association has  In fuU
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal  compliance.
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii)   Borrower shall enable the Administration's representatives to examine  In full
such records;                                                      compliance.
(iv)    Borrower shall nsure that such records and accounts are included in the  In full
annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the  compliance.
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the tatemcnts of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.



