V
Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-5207-GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED
CREDIT OF SDR 38.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION PROGRAM
APRIL 19, 1990
Ths document bas a restricted distibutbo and may be used by recipients only In the performnace of
ther offcal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dicosed without World BDak authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit: Guinean Franc (OF)
US$ - GF 650 (as of April 1990)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCRG      -    Banque Centrale de la R4publique de Guin4e (Central Bank)
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique
CCEF      -    Comite de Coordination Economique et Pinancibre
CNI       -    Commission Nationale d'Investissements
CNPIP     -    Centre National de Promotion des Investissements Prives
EKSP      -    Economic Management Support Project
FAC       -    Fonds dAide et de Cooperation
FIAS      -    Foreign Investment Advisory Services
ILO       -    International Labor Organization
ONEMO     -    Office National de l'Emploi et de la Main d'Oeuvre
ONPPME    -    Office National de Promotion des Petites et Moyennes
Entreprises
PFP       -    Policy Framework Paper
SAF       -    Structural Adjustment Facility
SAC       -    Structural Adjustment Credit
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION CRIT
Table of Contents
I.   THE ECONOMY
A.   Background: 1958-84 .................................       1
B. The Reform Program: 1985-89                .       .          2
C.   Medium-Term Prospects: 1990-93 ......................       4
II.  CONSTRAINTS TO PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
A. Background                   .        ..........   5
B.   The Depressed Investment Climate           .      .         6
1.   Overview .      . ............................. .......    6
2.   The Legal/Regulatory Framework         . . .          9
3.   The Incentive Structure ....................... .    11
4.   The Institutional Framework for Investment
Promotion        .......................   13
C.   The Fragility oi the Financial Sector        ..       .   14
1.   Overview .......................................   14
2.   Resource Mobilization ..........................   17
3.   The Functioning of Credit Markets ..............   17
4.   The Role of the Central Bank ...................   19
III. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
A.   Program Rationale and Objectives           .      .        20
B.   The Establishment of an Enabling
Investment Environment ..............................   22
1.   Imr.roving the LegallRegulatory Framework .......   22
2.   Rationalizing the Incentive Structure ..........   23
3.   Restructuring the Institutional
Framework for Investment Promotion .............   25
C.   The Deepening of Reforms in the Financial Sector....    26
1.   Implementation of the Reform Program       . .    26
2.   Interest Rate Reform ........................ ...    26
3.   Rationalization of Credit Markets        .    .      28
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pe.formanc.,
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World 8ank at th r.v ion.



4.   Enhancing the Effectiveness of the
Central Bank ...................................   30
IV. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
A. Amount and Timing ....................................   30
B.  Coordination with the IMF and IPC ................... .   31
C.  Co-Financing .     ........................................   31
D.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements         ..    31
E.  Program Administration and Auditing             . .       32
F. Benefits and Risks .....   ........      ... .  ........ ..    33
G.  Conditionality         .......................................   35
V.  RECO)MBNDATION.. ................                              36
APPENDIXES
APPENDIX I
(Table 1)   -    Key Macroeconomic Indicators
(Table 2)   -    Balance of Payments. 1988-93
(Table 3)   -    Gross Domestic Product - Sectoral Composition
APPENDIX II
(Table 1)   -    Financial Sector, 1986-1989
(Table 2)   -    Structure of Interest Rates
APPENDIX III   -    Summary Performance under Previous Adjustment
Operationr
APPENDIX IV    -    Supplementary Credit Data
APPENDIX  V    -    Policy Matrix
APPENDIX VI    -    Statement of Sectoral Policy
APPENDIX VII   -    Status of Bank Group Operations in Guinea
APPENDIX VIII  -    List of Documents in Project Files
APPENDIX IX    -    List of Privatized Firms
APPENDIX  X    -    Status of Manufacturing State Enterprises



- (i) -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION CREDIT
Program Summary
Borrower:                 Government of Guinea.
Credit Amount:            IDA Credit of SDR 38.7 million (US$50 million
equivalent), to be disbursed in two separate
tranches.
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms, with 40-year maturity.
Program Description:      The Credit would support a series of reforms
aimed at improving the investment climate in
Guinea. The objective of the Program will be to
establish a regulatory, incentive and
institutional framework designed to improve the
local business enviroDment and to encourage both
local and foreign promoters to undertake
investments in productive activities. Specific
reforms targeted by the Program include:
(i)  Simplification of the legallregulatorj  framework:
streamlining of enterprise establishment and
registration procedures; liberalization of labor
regulations; and enactment of texts establishing
legal basis for private ownership rights on
commercial buildings.
(ii) Enhancement of the overall incentive structure:
improving the effectiveness of the new tariff and
investment regimes; eliminating distortions
related to the ad hoc award of exemptions and
other special incentives outside of the
Investment Code's framework; and overhauling of
Customs Administration.
(iii)Increased effectiveness of the institutional
framework for investment promotion:
rationalization of the existing framework, to
lead to enhanced operational efficiency.
(iv) Improving the policy and operational framework in
the financial sector: deepening of interest rate
reform in order to broaden resource mobilization
at the level of local banks; rationalization of
credit markets, including the consolidation of
discount/refinancing windows; establishment of an
improved legal framework for banking activity;



- (ii) -
and strengthening of the Central Bank's capacity
to monitor activity in the banking sector.
Benefits and Risks:       The Guinean Government undertook in the mid-1980s
an ambitious economic adjusument program aimed in
particular at liberalizing the economy and at
reforming the public sector. Although successful
in other respects, the program has so far failed
to bring about a favorable supply response by
private operators. The reforms made part of this
cperation would further deepen the reforms
undertaken under the two SACs, by seeking to
improve the confidence of hoth local and foreign
promoters in the local environment, and thus
promote new productive investment. As a result,
these reforms would enhance financial flows to
sectors heretofore starved of new capital,
thereby boosting growth in the manufacturing
sector. New jobs created in the process would in
turn provide a much-needed alternative source of
employment for the urban population, at a time of
lay-offs tied to public sector reform. The
Program would thus alleviate the social cost of
adjustment and improve the overall sustainability
of the adjustment program.
The risks involved are two-fold: (1) that, given
the long-standing negative attitudes towards the
private sector by public officials, the new set
of reforms will not be forcefully implemented by
government officials that deal on a daily basis
with business operators; and (2) that despite the
new measures, private promoters will maintain a
cautious, non-committal attitude towards Guinea.
The first type of risk should be offset by the
commitment felt at the highest level of
Government to push forward the reform program.
Moreover, the program does not only focus on the
regulatory framework per se, but also attempts to
improve the administration's oversight capacity,
effectiveness, and accountability. As for the
second type of risk, it is clear that the
constraining regulatory and incentive framework
added to the government's interference in the
daily operation of local businesses have been key
factors in local as well as foreign investors'
reluctant attitude towards Guinea. Given the
country's strong -- and still mostly untapped --
economic potential, private investors should, in
time, respond favorably to the improved
investment climate to result from this operation.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PRESIDENT'S REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTvRS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION PROGRAM
1.           I submit for your consideration the following report on a
proposed Credit of SDR 38.7 million (US$50 million equivalent) to the
Republic of Guinea in support of the GoverDment's Private Sector
Promotion Program. The Credit would be on standard IDA terms, with 40-
year maturity and a 10-year grace period. The report is based on the
findings of several preparation missions undertaken between September
1988 and February 1990, as well as on a review of the industrial sector
conducted by the Bank in November/December 1988. A summary of Guinea's
performance under previous adjustment operations is provided in Appendix
3, while updated economic data on Guinea will be found in Appendix 1.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
A. Background: 1956-84
2.           Guinea is blessed with natural resources which make it one
of Africa's most richly endowed countries. It is in particular a major
producer and exporter of bauxite and other minerals. It also offers
strong agricultural potential resulting from abundant land resources and
rainfall; indeed, the country was at independence a leading exporter of
bananas and other agricultural commodities to 'European markets. Yet,
per capita income of less than US$350 (1988) and uniformly poor living
standards of its six-million-plus population place it among the least
developed countries in Africa: life expectancy is only 43 years, and the
literacy rate is a low 28 percent.
3.           Under the regime of President S4kou Toure (1958-84), the
private sector was largely displaced by a pervasive network of state
enterprises in all sectors of the economy. Urbanization accelerated, as
productive activities and incomes were increasingly shifted from the
rural to the urban sector. However, emphasis on state-led development
failed to produce the desired modernization and industrialization of the
economy: the official sector was functioning under an elaborate but
ineffective system of administered prices; the financial sector's
inability to mobilize domestic savings under the skewed policy
environment led to an overreliance on external financing and hence to a
progressively heavier debt burden; and, the currency became increasingly
overvalued, as inefficiency in the public sector produced a serious
misallocation of resources in the economy, as well as a disincentive to



export 11. A poor incentive structure concurrently pushed the dynamlc
agricultural sector into subsistence production. As a result of the
sharp ensuing drop in agricultural product.on, Guinea had become by the
mid-1970s a net food importer, with the economy increasingly reliant on
bauxite exports. On the aggregate, economic growth 'tver the period
remained below an annual population growth rate of close to 3 percent.
4.           Meanwhile, the informal sector continued to thrive,
feeding on clandestine exports and private transfers from abroad, and
dealing mostly in smuggled or pilfered imports. Its scope expanded
steadily, as the supply of goods imported through official channels
could not meet the demand for foodstuffs and other essential goods. By
the early 1980s, this parallel sector satisfied an estimated 80 percent
of Conakry's consumer demand, and virtually all such demand in the
country's interior. However, growth in the informal sector hardly
compensated for foregone investment in the formal private sector,
depriving the Government of otherwise badly-needed revenues.
5.           By the early 1980s, tha extended deterioration of Guinea's
economy had resulted in. an increasingly severe liquidity crisis. The
Government's fiscal position had worsened, chiefly because of the
growing weight of subsidies and other transfers to public enterprises.
The economy's external position became unsustainable, due in particular
to the failure of public investments outside of the mining enclave to
generate returns sufficient to service the associated external debt.
Mounting debt service obligations and private capital flight, unmatched
by capital inflows, resulted in a continuous rise of foreign liabilities
at the Central Bank, as well as in a massive accumulation of external
arrears which amounted to over US$300 million by end-1985.
B. The Reform Program: 1985-89
6.           The new regime that came to power in 1984 embarked upon a
radical -- and in many ways unprecedented -- program of reforms designed
tot (a) redress financial imbalances; and (b) replace the old system of
state controls and government intervention with a policy framework aimed
at the creation of a market-oriented economy. The program was supported
by the IMF in the form of two Standby Arrangements and a Structural
Adjustment Facility, and by the Bank through a first Structural
Adjustment Credit cofinanced by other donors.
7.           Starting in 1985, the program involved a series of
significant reforms (summarized in Appendix 3) in the areas of:
ti) Money and banking. In 1986, the Guinean franc (GF) replaced
the syli as the national currency. A weekly foreign exchange
auction was instituted which, following an initial 94 percent
1/ The Guinean syli traded officially at 23 to the dollar at the end of
1985, as against a parallel market rate of around 400.



- 3 -
devaluation (in foreign currency terms), yielded a rate of
exchange of OF 4001US$ by end-1986, increcsing to GF 6501US$ by
April 1990. Concurrently, the bankrupted state banks were all
liquidated and replaced by three (now four) commercial banks
with full or partial private shareholding.
(ii) Pricing, trade and tariff 2olicy. The system of pervasive
price controls was disbanded, except in the case of rice and
petroleum products; import licensing procedures were replaced
by a more liberal system of import declarations; the tariff
regime was rationalized through the introduction of a uniform
tariff of 10 percent for most goods; and, as of January 1988,
turnover taxes on imports and on domestic production were fully
harmonized.
(iii)The civil service and state enterprises. About 30,000 public
sector employees were removed from both active duty and payroll
between 1986 and end 1988, with further reductions of 10,000-
odd taking place in 1989. Over twenty public enterprises have
been privatized since 1986, and an additional seventy -- mainly
commercial -- parastatals are now in various stages of
liquidation.
(iv) The legislative environment. Several significant pieces of
legislation were enacted, covering respectively new investment,
mining, petroleum exploration, public procurement, banking,
accounting, and commercial activity.
8.           The reform package has produced encouraging results.
Overall, macroeconomic aggregates show evidence of improved econoaic
performance since the reforms were undertaken: GDP grew by around 3.2
percent in real terms in 1987, by over 6 percent in 1988, and by an
estimated 4.4 percent in 1989, while inflation fell from 72 percent in
1986 to 26 percent in 1989. The country's long economic decline was
thus reversed, leading to increased confidence by economic operators;
private sector investment picked up over the periud, spurred by the
privatization of major economic activities; and renewed trading boosted
opportunities for local businesses while improving local availability of
consumer and other goods.
9.           Notwithstanding these gains, serious economic imbalances
remain.  Due to poor revenue collection, public receipts failed to grow
in tandem with the overall level of economic activity. Lack of fiscal
discipline led to an overshooting of the public sector's expenditure
targets, and to a significant rise of the Government budget as a
percentage of GDP over the 1986-88 period. The ensuing budget deficit
of 7 percent of GDP in 1988 vs. the 5 percent target set in the
Government's Policy Framework Paper (PFP) increased pressure on import
demand which, in combination with the continued -- albeit significantly
reduced -- overvaluation of the exchange rate, resulted in large
deficits of the external curzent account.



- 4 -
10.          Problems also arose in the execution of the reform process
itself: 1988 saw an accumulation of arrears on the external debt and a
further depletion of foreign exchange reserves (the Government yet
continued to make foreign exchange available to the private sector
through the weekly auction, and many of the arrears on the external debt
were subsequently rescheduled at the April 1989 Paris Club meeting);
meanwhile, the administrative reform program fell behind schedule. By
the end of 1988, however, the Government had launched new initiatives to
deal with some of the key problems, including a sharp devaluation of the
exchange rate and new steps to test, select, and as needed dismiss civil
servants. Given the significant progress already achieved, the second
SAC was declared effective on March 2, 1989.
C. Medium-Term Prospects: 1990-93
11.               As presented in the PFP, basic objectives for the
1990-92 period are to: (i) achieve an average real annual economic
growth rate of 5 percent; (ii) gradually reduce the rate of inflation to
10 percent at the end of the period; (iii) avoid any further
appreciation of the real exchange rate; and (iv) reduce the current
account deficit (including official transfers) to an average of 5.1
percent of GDP over the period, while helping restore the level of
available foreign exchange reserves to the equivalent of 4.3 months
worth of imports. 2/ The PFP's underlying macroeconomic scenario
projects a decline in the overall budget deficit 3/, including grants,
from 8 percent of GDP in 1988 and 5.1 percent in 1989, to less than 4.5
percent o'er 1990-95 (see Appendix 1, Table 1). The Government's
recurrent budget situation is also expected to improve, from a deficit
of 1.2 percent of GDP in 1988 to a surplus of nearly 3.5 percent over
1990-95, thereby contributing to the national savings effort. Such
outcome is, however, contingent upon strict expenditure control, as well
as on the Government's success in increasing non-mining revenues (given
its dependence on bauxite-related income, Guinea's economy remains
highly vulnerable to adverse trends in the international bauxite and
alumina markets).  Under that scenario, manufacturing is projected to
grow over 1990-95 at an annual rate of 5.1 percent.
12.          Despite the increase in national savings to result from
the adjustment program, Guinea will be left with a balance-of-payments
gap of US$104 million in 1990-92, over and above the amounts already
committed (see Appendix 1, Table 2). These requirements are due both to
the anticipated deterioration in Guinea's terms of trade, and to the
debt service burden inherited from the period prior to 1986. The
proposed Private Sector Promotion Credit would contribute to the
financing of gap over 1990-91, both directly through the provision of
2/ Excluding imports of the mining sector and those related to the public
investment program.
3/ All budgetary data exclude transactions with the USSR.



- a 
US$50 ntllion of quick-disbursing funds available against general
import-, and indirectly through stimulus to foreign capital inflows
which the improved investment climate would provide. A third SAC,
currently planned as an FY92 operation, could, in association with
cofinancing, be mobilized to meet Guinea's financing needs in 1992-93.
13.          The proposed operation would complement the macroeconomic
adjustment efforts supported by the first two SACs, as well as by the
two companion Economic Management Support Projects (EMSP-I and II) which
aim at improved ecornomic management through targeted technical
assistance activities. The second SAC combined with the second-year
arrangement under the SAF which came onstream in 1989 focused on: (1)
resource moLilization and expenditure control; (2) the rationalization
of the civil service; (3) the continuation of public enterprise reform;
and (4) further strengthening of macroeconomic management, particularly
with respect to budgetary management, exchange and interest rate policy,
and price liberalitation. The proposed Program would expand on these
efforts, by introducing the detailed reforms necessary to allow private
sector operators to take full advantage of the favorable macroeconomic
environment created under the existing adjustment programs.
14.          The Program would also contribute to Government efforts to
maintain an adequate social safety net for poor and disadvantaged
groups. It would in particular lead to the creation of new jobs in the
private sector, and improve overall living standards through increased
revenue flows and generally higher levels of activity throughout the
economy (see para. 112 for a specific discussion of the Credit's social
benefits).
PART II. CONSTRAINTS TO PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
A. Background
15.          As indicated above, the Government has since 1985 taken
significant steps to foster a favorable environment for private sector
development in Guinea: a new Investment Code was introduced in January
1987; the trade regime was rationalized, and duty rates were
substantially reduced; price controls were removed; and, a private
banking sector vas set up and became operational. The initial response
to the reform program was encouraging. Overall, the economy grew by 3.1
percent in real terms in 1987, and 5.9 percent in 1988. Agricultural
production responded particularly well to changes in relative prices; as
a case in point, official coffee exports grew to 8,000 MT in 1988, up
from negligible amounts in 1985. Significant increases in activity were
achieved in 1987 in mining, in energy, as well as in the service sector
-- particularly construction, trade and transport. By comparison, the
manufacturing sector grew at a compounded rate of barely 3 percent in
1987-88 (Appendix 1, Table 3). Overall growth weakened somewhat in
1989, but was still an estimated 4.4 percent. However, economic growth
threatens to slow further in coming years, as the reduced fiscal deficit



will no longer provide the level of economic stimulus it did in the
past.
16.          Despite the introduction of the macroeconomic reforms, the
local business climate remained plainly unsatisfactory, providing
conflicting signals to promoters and thus contributing to the continued
sluggishness in investtment levels. As a result, the enthusiasm that
Guinea had initially evoked from potential local as t'ell as foreign
investors now appears to be dwindling, a trend which must be reversed if
Guinea is to meet the targets it has set for itself in the PFP. The
proposed Program aims simultaneously at improving the local business
environment and at addressing continued constraints in the financial
system, with a view to bringing about a sustained supply response to the
reforms from Guinea's private sector. In so doing, it will focus on
promoting investment in the industrial sector, to redress the private
sector's present strong bias towards trading activity. Constraints
relating respectively to the business climate and to the financial
sector are analyzed separately below.
B. The Depressed Investment Climate
1.   Overview
17.           Prior to the introduction of the reform program, formal
private sector activity in Guinea was very modest. Until 1984, state
control ov-r all formal commercial and manufacturing activity was
pervasive, stifling private initiative. State enterprises held
monopolies over all exports, over marketing channels for most consumer
and intermediate goods, and over practicslly all industrial activity.
In 1985, there were 42 state-owned industrial enterprises, representing
a sunk investment cost in excess of US$325 million and accounting for an
estimated 42 percent of ma;facturing value added.  These enterprises
employed approximately 7,2u0 workers, and were primarily involved in
agro-processing, with others in chemicals, pharmaceuticals, and metal
products. Despite the existence of a substantial unsatisfied demand for
their output, these enterprises operated at a paltry average rate of
capacity utilization of 22 percent. In effect, only 23 of these 42
state-owned firms were still operational in 1985; of these, only six
generated operational surpluses, and none were profitable after
depreciation and amortization.
18.          The formal private sector was, at the time, comprised of
around 360 small- and medium-scale enterprises, 130 of which were
engaged in simple manufacturing activity (mainly in food, wood and
simple metal manufacturing). These firms, which had somehow msnaged to
adapt to the hostile policy environment of the former regime, accounted
for an estimated 3,100 employees, and 40 percent of manufacturing value
added. The balance of the private sector was comprised of an unknown
number of micro-enterprises engaged in informal activity. One estimate
put the number of such enterprises involved in manufacturing at about
3,500, representing some 12,700 jobs and 18 percent of manufacturing



- 7 -
value added. Overall, industrial activity was heavily concentrated in
the Conakry area.
Estimated Composition of Guinea's Manufacturing Sector in 1985
Type of Enterprise       Number    Number of       t of Total
of Ent.     Jobs         Value Added
State-wned                 42         7,200             42
Private companies         360         3,100             40
Micro-enterprises       3,500        12,700             18
Total                   3,902        23,000            100
19.          Since the introduction of the reform program, privatS
sector activity has remained concentrated in commerce and trading, with
estimated GDP generated in that sector in 1988 being four times larger
than that of the non-mining manufacturing sector (Appendix 1, Table 3).
The liberalization and privatization process begun in 1985 has therefore
failed to alter the strong bias of the local economy towards the trading
sector: most of the newly-established firms have focused either on
import trade with Europe and other countries, or on internal trading and
transport activities. Manafacturing activity in general -- and that of
the formal sector in particular -- remains thin, with the non-mining
industrial sector accounting for only 5.5 percent of GDP in 1987. In
fact, indications are that the formal sector's share of total
manufacturing value added actually declined since 1984.
20.          The above applies all the more to the informal sector,
where employment in trading has grown an estimated 42 percent between
early 1985 and early 1989, with the informal sector still playing a
dominant role in such activities. Although the informal sector has
clearly contributed to employment growth in manufacturing -- the
informal sector accounted for an estimated 18,000 jobs in manufacturing
in 1987, vs. the aforementioned 12,700 prior to the reform program --
over eighty percent of all informal sector enterprises are still engaged
in non-manufacturing activity: a 1988, ILO-financed survey of Guinea's
informal sector identified only 3,450 enterprises in the manufacturing
sector (19 percent of the total), vs. 8,760 in the trading sector, 3,298
in services, and 2,695 in transport.
21.          The bulk of Guinea's formal private sector is now
comprised of the nucleus of recently privatized state-owned enterprises;
26 of a total of 42 state-owned industrial enterprises have so far been
privatized, and another four privatizations are currently under
negotiation. 41 All privatizations have involved the active
41 Of the remaining parastatals, six have been closed down, and the others,
including the entire textile manufacturing complex, are mostly inoperative.



- 8 -
participation of foreign interests (see list in Appendix 10). The
privatized firms cover a wide range of activities, including the
production of alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, fruit-pulp
processing, saw milling and plywood manufacturing, paint production,
brick making, cigarette manufacturing, and cement. All of them have
benefitted from special investment incentives outside of the new
Investment Code, some of which have proven to be overly generous, such
as, for ten of 21 companies surveyed in the course of an industrial
survey, the granting of monopoly status on production. However, only
ten of the privatized firms have commenced production; of chese, two
have already shut down and another four are in serious financial
trouble, due in the main to competition from illegal imports, a
deteriorating investment climate, and continuing internal operational
problems .
22.          Many of the privatized firms have experienced difficulties
with public authorities, which in some instances reportedly failed to
respect their commitment under existing privatization agreements. In
particular, restructuring of these companies, labor force remained
constrained by continuous intervention of the Ministry of Labor, as well
as by the intrusive role of trade unions: despite very substantial staff
reductions, 5/ their work force remails plagued by considerable
redundancy and inefficiency. As a result of these problems as well as
of the continued flooding of the local market by illegal imports,
capacity utilization, although improved, remains low. Under present
circumstances, these firms consequently have very little incentive to
expand their activities and hire or train workers, and planned
investments have been cut back or cance.led.
23.          Other investment in the formal manufacturing sector has
been equally disappointing. Although 70 private firms have so far
qualified for benefits under the 1987 Investment Code, most of them are
not yet operational. In fact, the number of operating licenses awarded
by the Ministry of Industry started dropping off as early as 1987: only
14 licenses were awarded that year compared to 89 in 1986. A more
detailed review of the manufacturing sector also reveals large
variations in outlook between subsectors: some of them already suffer
from excess production capacity (bakeries, woodwork, simple metal
manufacturing), while others -- such as textiles -- are constrained by
insufficient capacity due to weak past investment levels. The
manufacturing sector is therefore still hampered by inadequate
diversification, with present industrial activity concentrated
essentially in the wood processing, metal products, and food and agro-
processing subsectors, which account respectively for an estimated 32,
40, and 15 percent of industrial value added.
24.          In the short-term, only the food/agro-processing subsector
offers realistic prospects for export growth, but despite recent efforts
to export packaged fruit, cut flowers, and other agro-based commodities,
5/ The labor force of 25 privatized companies was down to 1,800 at the end
of 1988, compared to a pre-privatization level of about 4,000.



- 9 -
the industrial sector's aggregate contribution to Guinea's export
earnings remains negligible. A review of Guinea's business environment
has generally indicated that formal private sector activity,
particularly in manufacturing, is still limited by three types of
constraints, related respectively to: (1) the legal and regulatory
framework; (2) the incentives structure; and (3) a weak investment
promotion framework. These constraints are analyzed successively below.
2.   The Legal/Regulatory Framework
25.          Although important legislation was adopted in the past
three years as part of the Governme.it's efforts to promote private
sector development in Guinea, the legislative framework regulating
business activity remains marred by inconsistencies and weaknesses that
compromise its effectiveness. In some cases, no coherent guidelines or
procedures were provided to implement the new laws. In other instances,
lack of coordination between ministries has led to the development of
overlapping -- or in some cases contradictory -- regulations. The
absence until early 1989 of an official gazette providing the local
business community with the "final word" on their rights and obligations
has only compounded the problem. As a result, the settlement of
disputes is typically "negotiated" with public officials on a case-by-
case basis, leaving private entrepreneurs permanently exposed to
harassment by public officials.
26.          Establishment procedures provide a clear illustration of
the wide discrepancy between legal principle and accepted practice. In
theory, any business not subject to explicit nationality restrictions or
that does not first have to comply with technical standards should be
free to establish itself in Guinea by simply incorporating at the Trade
Registry. In practice, incorporation procedures are both onerous and
time consuming, and involve dealings with a number of other governmental
departments such as the Ministry of Industry and of Finance, and often
the technical ministry concerned. The right of free establishment is in
effect not respected, as individual ministries require investments
falling within their technical competence to be cleared through issuance
of special operating licenses (agrements techniques).
27.          Despite their formal appearance, these licenses run
directly counter to the spirit of the Investment Code and have no proper
legal basis (except for those professions specifically regulated to
ensure enforcement of minimum technical standards). They represent
sources of irritation for promoters, subjecting projects to arbitrary
evaluation criteria, delaying actual start-up, and often exposing the
entrepreneur to demands for improper payments. The fact that commercial
banks refuse to consider credit applications in the absence of a
technical license from the relevant ministry further compounds the
problem, forcing businessmen to comply. Aside from that license, the
Ministry of Industry also requires all firms to obtain a commercial
license (agrement commercial), and firms and individuals involved in
trading activity to obtain a business license (carte de commercant).
The commercial license is yet another hurdle to overcome for



- 10 -
entrepreneurs. As for the business license, neither its rationale nor
its legality are clearly established; although its only acknowledged
purpose is statistical, its award is sometimes withheld as a means of
controlling access to specific trading activities.
28.          Land and Property Titles.  By law, all land in Guinea
belongs to the State, and private entrepreneurs, whether local or
foreign, need permission to lease it. However, most investors are not
granted clearly defined leases, which all too often exposes them to
lengthy disputes later on. In other cases, companies seeking to expand
existing operations have been unable to obtain leases on neighboring
plots, as requests for land occupation rights are either denied or
remain unanswered. Worse yet, poor record keeping has at times led to
the granting of leases on land and buildings to two different parties at
once. Such problems, which arise from both lack of appropriate property
ownership legislation and from poor administration of land registration,
constitute a major irritant for private firms, particularly for foreign
investors unfamiliar with the local context. They also prevent firms
from offering adequate collateral demanded by local banks.
29.          Labor Retulations.  Despite the introduction of a new
Labor Code, procedures for hiring labor, both local and expatriate,
still constitute a hindrance to business activity. Firms in the formal
sector have had to hire workers through the Ministry of Labor on the
basis of a list of prospective candidates provided by the Ministry's
National Labor Office for each job opening (direct hiring has been
subject to severe penalties). This process has proven both time
consuming and restrictive. Not surprisingly, it has made it difficult
for potential employers to hire qualified staff, particularly when
skilled workers were needed. Procedures for laying off workers have
been likewise restrictive, since prior approval of the Ministry of Labor
was in many cases required 61.
30.          Specific limitations also apply to the hiring of
expatriate staff. All contracts for expatriate employees must be
approved by the Ministry of Labor, and cannot in any case exceed two
years. However, there are no set criteria for the approval of such
contracts, nor are there any rules governing their renewal.
Consequently, overseas investors frequently face arbitrary denials both
for new contracts and for renewals. Such problems have only contributed
to the further alienation of foreign investors.
31.          More generally, guidelines for the implementation of the
new Labor Code have not yet been finalized. As a result, the Ministry
of Labor's Inspection Department is able to excercise highly
discretionary power in labor relations, intervening arbitrarily as
61 As per the Labor Code, firms wishing to lay off 10 or more workers on
economic grounds must have prior approval -'rom the Ministry of Labor. The
Ministry itself appears to have arbitrarily set a maximum limit of 30
workers that it will allow any firm, irrespective of its size, to lay off
for economic reasons.



- 11 -
intermediary between employers and employees. The Ministry has in that
respect often been involved in wage negotiations on behalf of employees,
or has fixed minimum remuneration levels payable to workers by
individual firms.
3.   The Incentive Structure
32.          An initial reform of Guinea's incentive structure was
undertaken under IDA's first Structural Adjustment Credit. The trade
regime was radically simplified; all import licensing regulations were
abolished, and replaced with a simple import declaration to be endorsed
by the Central Bank; following the major devaluation of January 1986,
the tariff regime was rationalized, and duty rates were reduced; as of
January 1988, turnover taxes levied on imports and on domestic
production were harmonized, resulting in a more neutral trade regime;
and, a new Investment Code was promulgated in January 1987, linking the
award of incentives and privileges to performance-based criteria. As
will be seen below, this package of measures has been only partially
successful in creating an efficient and transparent structure of
incentives for private promoters.
33.          Investment Code.  Although a significant improvement over
the old code, the new code provides an array of incentives under
conditions which hamper implementation of its various provisions. In
order to achieve the Code's various objectives -- such as the
development of the country's natural resources, the local processing of
its raw materials, export development, SHE promotion, or harmonious
regional development -- over twenty different types of benefits may be
awarded, relating respectively to corporate tax, apprenticeship tax,
flat-rate tax, wage tax, import tax, and customs duty (these benefits
can be awarded either individually or simultaneously to eligible firms).
Furthermore, some of the Code's eligibility criteria are imprecise,
complicating the evaluation of individual applications.
34.          Although most of these eligibility criteria are
performance-based and thus require subsequent monitoring of the
beneficiary firm's compliance with the Code's provisions, the National
Investment Commission (CNI) lacks both the internal capacity and the
established procedures to collect from beneficiary firms the necessary
data on total turnover, share of revenues constituted by exports, or
labor costs. CNI's job is further complicated by the poorly defined
and/or unenfotceable obligations which the Code imposes on the investor,
such as compliance with "national and international quality standards",
"priority' usage of domestic raw materials and supplies, and so forth.
She problem will only be compounded in the future, as the projects
previously approved start coming onstream in greater numbers and thus
impose a higher monitoring burden on CNI.
35.          Applying for eligibility under the Investment Code first
involves the completion of enterprise establishment procedures (see
paragraph 26). Once established, a firm normally has to wait another 80
days to have its application processed by CNI. In practice, longer



- 12 -
delays are covmon, and it typically takes investors over six months just
to find out whether they will qualify for any ber-efits under the Code.
36.          Exemptions.  As a result of the long processing time and
of the uncertainty surrounding the implementation of the Code's
provisions, individual entrepreneurs and firms alike have often elected
to circumvent the Code altogether and negotiate special incentive
packages entirely outside of the Code's framework. As a result, duty
and tax exemptions have been awarded on an ad hoc and often arbitrary
basis, which has served only to distort the general ;ncentive structure
and encourage rent-seeking on the part of individual promoters. Such
exemptions have not been restricted as originally intended either to
privatized firms or to imports related to government contracts. They
have on the contrary been granted to all types of enterprises by
technical ministries (Industry and Commerce, Agriculture, and so forth),
often without the consent -- or even the knowledge -- of the two
ministries -- Planning and Finance -- in principle responsible for such
awards.
37.          Not surprisingly, privileges granted in the process are
generally poorly devised or outright abusives duty exemptions have been
awarded on products often unrelated to the purpose of the investment,
product description is often vague, or no time limitation applicable to
the particular privilege will be specified. Although the exact
magnitude of the problem is not known, indications are that such ad hoc
benefits entail a major shorfall in tax and duty revenues for the
Government. Also, such practices end up being particularly
discriminatory against small domestic producers, who do not have the
bargaining power vis-a-vis the administration to negotiate their own
separate concessions.
38.          The problem resulting from the award of such exemptions is
further aggravated by lack of monitoring: neither Customs nor the
Ministry of Finance's Tax Department keeps an inventory of the numerous
special conventions and exemptions granted to individual promoters, and
thus no breakdown of these exemptions is available by type of product or
period of validity. This has resulted in total absence of control and
widespread abuse of the system, with individual enterprises left free to
negotiate whatever privileges they may obtain.
39.          Deductibility of Turnover Taxes on Imported Inputs.  In
order to maintain a uniform 10 percent effective rate of protection
across the board, the tariff reform adopted under Guinea's structural
adjustment program called for the deductibility of turnover taxes paid
on imported inputs. Due to the absence of implementation procedures,
the deductibility scheme has neither been applied systematically nor
uniformly. This has had a discriminatory effect on local manufacturers
who, given the normally high import content of local production, may



- 13 -
find themselves at a substantial disadvantage vis-a-vis
importersltraders. 71
40.          Customs Administration.  Since documentary requirements
for customs clearance are complex and time consuming (twenty-odd
separate signatures are required for clearance), they are routinely used
by customs officials to extract illegal payments from importers or their
agents. Customs fraud and illegal imports resulting from inefficiency
and corruption in Customs may represent the single most important
impediment to a fair trade regime in Guinea, contributing in a major way
to the bias against domestic manufacturing activity and in favor of
imports. As a case in point, a recent Government report recognized
that, in past years. customs credits (granted in lieu of actual payment
of duties) were granted without limits, and without any serious
assurances, causing duties arrears of more than GF 10 billion (over $20
million at the time) for the period 1986-88'. In the same vein,
outright illegal operations amounting to almost GF 2 billion were
reportedly uncovered over a 19-month period, representing, according to
the same report, part of a vast network of embezzlement and fraud.
41.          While use of the services of a private customs agency
helps control the overvaluation of imports -- and thus reduce the
incidence of disguised capital flight -- the task of monitoring possible
undervaluation of imports aimed at avoiding import duties is the
responsibility of Customs. The latter is however ill-equipped for this
task, and as a result, criteria for valuation are used in haphazard
fashion. This often leads to disputes over duty assessments and to
delayed customs clearance or, alternatively, to suitably 'negotiated'
settlements with the importer. Also, due to lack of coordination
between Customs Administration on the one hand and the National
Investment Commission and the various technical ministries on the other,
exemptions claimed by individual firms either in the context of the
Investment Code or of special investment conventions are often rejected
by Customs, or in other cases approved without verification. This leads
again to disputes, delays, as well as illegal settlements.
4.   The Institutional Framework for Investment Promotion
42.          A host of investment promotion agencies are presently
operating in Guinea, including:
o    The National Center for the Promotion of Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises (ONPPME), which operates under the
supervision of the Ministry of Industry and aims mainly at
providing pre-investment-type services to SMEs.
7/ In particular, the turnover tax is applied to the CIF price of imported
inputs instead of the duty-inclusive price, which in effect reduces the
effective rate of protection of locally-manufactured goods against imported
products.



- 14 -
o    The National Center for the Promotion of Private Investment
(CNPIP), which is overseen by the Ministry of Plan and has, as
one of its principal objectives, the promotion of foreign
investment in Guinea.
O    The Assistance Bureau for the Employment of Former Public
Servants (BARAF), which is sponsored by the Ministry of Finance
and provides pre-investment services to former civil servants
who chose to leave government service or who lost their job as
a result of the adjustment program.
O    The Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which was established as
an autonomous institution to protect the interests of private
sector operators.
43.          Unfortunately, none of the above institutions has had a
material effect on enterprise creation and on the level of local or
foreign investment in Guinea. Despite its 150-odd staff based both in
Conakry and the interior, ONPPME has not had the anticipated effect on
the creation of SMEs; in effect, its massive undertaking of feasibility
studies has led to the creation of, at best, a trickle of new firms.
CNPIP's efforts to attract large, mostly foreign, investments to Guinea
have been to no avail, given the country's unfavorable image abroad. As
for BARAF, it was indeed able to promote the creation of several hundred
new projects sponsored in the main by former civil servants, but at the
cost of a mounting number of delinquent loans for local banks. Indeed,
it appears that the latter provided the necessary financing for these
projects only because their lending risk was covered by a BARAF-managed
guarantee fund.
C. The Fragility of the Financial Sector
1.   Overview
44.          Until 1985, Guinea's financial sector was almost entirely
devoted to serving the command economy which the Government had set up
after independence. Six specialized state-owned banks had been
established, to deal respectively with agriculture, industry, foreign
trade, foreign capital remittances, domestic savings, and private
domestic trade. These banks were essentially used as instruments to
implement the country's development plan. The bulk of bank credit was
absorbed by state enterprises, generally in the form of direct credit
allocations determined on the basis of the latter's annual plans of
operations. On the other hand, credit to the private sector was
prohibited until 1979, and remained insignificant thereafter. In that
context, interest rates played no allocative role in the functioning of
local credit markets.
45.          Meanwhile, low confidence in the banking system rendered
regulations designed to encourage the mobilization of private resources
in the banking sector -- such as the compulsory payment of salaries into



- 15 -
bank accounts or quantative limits on withdrawals -- ineffective. The
Central Bank turned increasingly to monetary creation to finance the
growing deficits in the public sector, which only resulted in
accelerating inflation. In time, the banking system grew increasingly
illiquid, as banks had to finance a mounting level of overdrafts to
cash-strapped state enterprises, and as delinquent loans piled up. Such
delinquent loans were estimated in 1985 to represent as much as 76
percent of total banking assets and about 140 times the aggregate value
of bank equity.
46.          The new administration recognized at that time that the
six existing state banks could not realistically be rehabilitated. It
therefore decided to: (1) liquidate them; and (2) compensate depositors
for their ensuing losses. Smaller depositors were compensated first,
and private sector deposits were given first priority over deposits held
by parastatals. By July 1989, aggregate compensation had amounted to an
estimated GF 13.5 billion (close to 15 percent of the money supply at
that time); repayment of a remaining GP 6 billion of claims has been
planned for by the Government, at a rate of GF 2 billion a year for the
coming three years.
47.          To fill the void left by the liquidation of state banks,
three new banks were given licenses to operate in 1985-86. All three
were created with partial or full private shareholding and were
affiliated to large French banks. 81 Among them, BICIGUI was set up
with material and technical assistance from IDA and participation in
share capital from IFC with a specific mandate to: (1) make available
externally-funded project financing to the industrial sector; and (2)
open a network of up to ten branches in the country's interior. The new
banks were granted special tax incentives and other privileges on a
case-by-case basis under separate agreements with the Central Bank
(BCRG). The establishment of the new banks was accompanied by a
reorganization of BCRG, the enactment of a new banking law, and a
substantial liberalization of credit and other banking activities.
48.          Progress achieved in the three years since the
establishment of a new banking system is impressive. Total local
currency deposits in the banking sector grew from GF 8.0 billion at the
end of 1986 to GF 16.3 billion in 1987, GF 24.5 billion in 1988, and GF
81 These were: the Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l'Industrie en
Guinee (BICIGUI). an affiliate of Banque Nationale de Paris with 50 percent
Government participation; the Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique de
l'Ouest en Guin6e (BIAG), an affiliate of Banque Internationale pour
l'Afrique de l'Ouest with 51 percent Government participation; and the
Societe Generale de Banques en Guinee (SGBG), an affiliate of Societe
Generale with no Government participation but 55 percent ownership by local
private investors. As the only privately-owned bank in Guinea prior to
1985, the Islamic Bank was allowed to remain in operation; however, it
plays an insignificant role in the system. A fifth bank -- the Union
Internationale de Banques en Guinee (UIBG) -- opened its doors in 1988 as
an affiliate of Credit Lyonnais.



- 16 -
34.4 billion by the end of 1989. This represented a 52 percent increase
in real terms in 1987 (admittedly from a small starting base), and real
increases of respectively 24 and 11 percent in 1988 and 1989 (see
Appettiix 2, Table 1). Meanwhile, total outstanding credit to the
private sector grew to GF 42.3 billion at end 1989, with real increases
of 64 percent in 1987 and 6 percent in 1988, with no increase in real
terms registered in 1989.
49.          Beyond these figures, the mere fact that the Government
has succeeded in reorganizing the financial sector and in making
customary banking services available to private sector operators and to
the public at large where such services were totally unavailable three
years back is a major achievement of the reform program. Among such new
services, private firms have had mostly unconstrained access to foreign
exchange required to finance their imports through the newly-established
weekly auction at the Central Bank.
50.          Past progress should however not mask the continuing
deficiencies of the sector. Overall. financial markets are still
notably shallow, and no financial deepening has occurred in the past two
years (see para. 52). Generally, the banking system's participation in
day-to-day economic activity is weak. Despite the growth in overall
credit activity noted above, credit to the private sector is still
essentially limited to the short-term financing of international trade,
with critically-needed term credit being mostly unavailable to private
operators. The local banks' very conservative approach to lending has
not prevented them from experiencing relatively high delinquency ratios,
stemming in particular from the difficult environment in which they are
operating (see para. 55 for details on the banking environment).
51.          The banking system as a whole is also highly inefficient
by standard measures. Overhead expenses amounted to 8.6 percent of
average assets in 1988 and a huge 14.4 percent of the outstanding
portfolio, due in large part to the high number of expatriate staff sent
from home office to manage local operations (the fact that such expenses
apply to a reduced asset base only aggravates the nroblem). In
addition, at least two of the four major local banks are saddled with a
high percentage of non-performing loans. These high operating costs and
mounting losses have so far been offset by the unusually high spreads of
over 20 points available to banks on lending operations: most
outstanding loans were made at or above the 25 percent interest rate
ceiling prevailing until January 1989, vs. an average cost of funds
estimated in June 1988 at 1.7 percent. These spreads have allowed the
banks to constitute a substantial cushion of reserves for bad debts.
However, the extent to which these reserves adequately cover future
default risks is uncertain. Moreover, both the generous spreads and
high operating expenses under which banks are presently operating will
eventually have to be reduced if the system is to perform its
intermediation role effectively. The various constraints to the
development of an efficient financial sector are discussed in more
detail below.



- 17 -
2.   Resource Mobilization
52.          Low confidence in the financial system has seriously
hampered the mobilization of private savings needed to finance
investment. Trust in the banking system was seriously eroded by over 25
years of mismanagement and neglect. The national currency was
demonetized on five occasions since independence, including in January
1986 when the syli was replaced by the Guinean franc. These currency
upheavals coupled with rapid monetary erosion led to the spoliation of
currency holders, whose mistrust in the local economy was -- and still
is -- reflected in their preference for offshore or non-monetary
holdings. Thus, monetization of the economy (Ml) is still weak at an
estimated 6.7 percent of GDP in 1989, a ratio whi'-h has remained
unchanged since 1986. Although deposits in the system have increased
substantially as a percentage of the monetary base since 1986, they
still accounted for only 33.1 percent of that base at 1989 year end.
The private local currency deposit base of the Guinean banking system
remains very small at an estimated 2.4 percent of GDP at 1989 year end,
compared to a 1987 mean of 19.8 percent for a sample of 33 African
countries.
53.          Inappropriate interest rates have been a second factor
behind the weak mobilization of private savings in Guinea. Prevailing
rates have provided insufficient incentive to save in local currency, to
the detriment of the achievement of the Government's broad long-term
objectives. Recently-introduced savings accounts have yielded until
recently only 12 percent per annum, as against an inflation rate still
hovering between 25 and 30 percent. Term deposits yielded only a
slightly higher 17 percent until January 1989. Moreover, less than 30
percent of all deposits were actually interest-bearing, of which only 16
percent were in the form of term deposits at end-1988, the remainder
being held by banks in non-interest-bearing accounts. 9/ Additionally,
prevailing deposit interest rates provide no incentive to overseas
depositors to transfer their foreign currency holdings back into Guinean
francs. As a result, these critically-needed resources are not
available for domestic investment, further compounding resource
constraints in the economy. All told, a major shift in savings patterns
will be needed to increase the capturing of resources in the formal
financial system to more satisfactory levels.
3.   The Functioning of Credit Markets
54.          Recent net increases in lending pointed out in paragraph
48 should not mask the fact that absolute levels are still quite modest.
At 1988 year end, outstanding loans to the private sector represented
barely 40 percent of total bank assets, and an extremely low 3.1 percent
of GDP. The relatively insignificant role played by institutional
91 Local banks have in effect been discouraging potential depositors from
opening interest-bearing accounts, in particular through the setting of
high minimum account balances.



- 18 _
credit in industrial activity stems, at least in part, from the weak
demand for investment financing resulting from the morose business
climate. It also reflects the cautious lending policies of the new
banks.
55.          The key factor in the banks' extremely cautious lending
practices is without doubt the unfavorable environment in which these
banks are themselves operating. Banks are particularly constrained bys
(1) the absence of past credit records on local operators coupled with a
lack of financial discipline on the part of local promoters; and (2) the
generally deficient functioning of the judicial system and legal void
surrounding the issue of bank sureties. The latter problem probably
constitutes the major limitation to banking activity in Guinea. It
renders banks unable to enforce their rights as creditors through
foreclosures or other court-approved actions, due in particular to
debtor-judge collusion and rampant corruption in the legal and paralegal
professions. The absence of proper land registration and property
ownership legislation further compounds the problem, by making it in
effect impossible for banks to secure their loans with matching
collateral. Clearly, local banks cannot be expected to become more
responsive to the needs of local investors in the absence of a more
supportive legal framework.
56.          As a result, banks have heretofore focused mostly on
short-term lending (about 85 percent of total outstanding loans at 1988
year end), particularly import financing for large traders. On the
other hand, term lending to local enterprises is severely restricted (in
the case of projects involving foreign exchange costs, local banks are
reluctant to rely on the guarantee schemes set up by the Government to
cover losses they may incur through utilization of the externally-funded
lines). Limited access to investment credit applies even to foreign
investors: unable to claim ownership rights on buildings put up on
leased property, they have often had to rely on financing from their
parent company overseas.
57.          The policy framework has only tended to reinforce
shortcomings in the functioning of local credit markets. This has been
particularly the case of interest rate regulation: until January 1989,
all domestic lending was subject to a 25 percent interest rate ceiling,
while under the externally-funded lines of credit, banks soill operate
with narrow spreads of only 3 percentage points in the case of small
enterprises, and 5 points for larger borrowers. This has provided banks
little incentive for competition, and scant encouragement to assume the
higher risk (notwithstanding the existence of the guarantee schemes) and
poorer collateral associated with term lending, thus further
constraining investment.
58.          Additionally, interest rates applicable under the major
externally-funded lines are highly subsidized as compared to both market
rates and inflation levels. Similarly, as late as January 1989, banks
were able to refinance eligible local-currency loans at the Central Bank
at deeply subsidized rates: (1) a normal discount rate of 17 percent;
(2) a preferential rate of 10 percent; and (3) a super-preferential rate



- 19 -
as low as 7 percent (two other windows were available for interbank
transactions, at respectively 15 percent and 18-20 percent). The
existence of such subsidized rates has contributed to the fragmentation
of financial markets between borrowers eligible under these facilities
lines end those forced to pay market rates, and has tended to distort
the efficient channeling of resources to the productive sector. Also,
easy access to such cheap resources has in turn provided local banks
with little incentive to aggressively seek interest-paying deposits.
4.   The Role of the Central Bank
59.          BCRG has since 1985 played a key role in setting up the
new financial system. Aside from overseeing the liquidation of the
former banks and the gradual compensatinn of depositors, it negotiated
the conditions of establishment of the new banks, and has operated the
newly-established official weekly foreign exchange auction. It was
further burdened by the need to deal with the consequences of the
continued fiscal deficits the public sector has accounted for a
substantial portion of total credit outstanding, much of which has been
funded through overdrafts and direct advances from BCRG to the Treasury.
60.          The active role played by BCRG in these various areas has
tended to distract it from its normal -- but critically important --
responsibilities relating to monetary policy on one hand, and to the
monitoring and supervision of the banking sector cn the other. Much
prog-'ess has been achieved since 1988 in establishing new procedures and
internal control systems within the Central Bank. A total of six long-
term advisors are presently providing BCRG much needed technical
assistance in the areas of credit, foreign exchange management,
accounting, and cash management, with other assistance forthcoming with
respect to internal control. However, the advisory team has had to
concentrate mostly on day-to-day management of Central Bank operations,
at the expense of the needed training of local staff.
61.          Moreover, the technical assistance program has not to date
dealt with BCRG needs relating to supervision of the banking sector. In
this respect, the Central Bank has yet to undertake a comprehensive
supervision of commercial banks (aside from a quick oversight of the
banks undertaken under the guidance of an IMP consultant in late 1988),
and its present capacity to undertake an in-depth review of a comercial
bank's operations is largely inadequate. As a result, little is known
of the financial condition of local banks, and particularly of the
quality of their assets. Indications are that around 30 percent of the
portfolios of the two largest banks (BICIGUT and SGBG) may be
uncollectible, with other banks facing a lesser problem. The fact that
BCRG has not yet defined a set of pradontial ratios to be maintained by
the banks only increases the potential pitfalls of the present
situation.



- 20 -
PART III. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
A. Proaram Rationale and Obiectives
62.          The proposed Private Sector Promotion Program evolved from
the Government's recognition of the central role that private investment
will have to play if Guinea is to achieve the ambitious growth
objectives it has set for itself in the coming years. As a result of
investors' low confidence level in Guinea's near-term prospects and of
the absence of a supporting environment for business activity, direct
investment in productive activities has -- after an initial revival in
1985-87 -- slowed to a virtual halt. In this respect, local investors
have themselves opted for short-term, quick-turnover importing/trading
activities, while spurning the uncertainties 3f long-term investment in
industrial projects. Yet, faced with the continued austerity linked to
the reform program, Guinea ba-'ly needs new investment, in order to add
value to local resources, create new employment opportunities, compete
effectively against imports, and, in key sectors, actively trade in
export markets.
63.          An upsurge in private investment can only occur, however,
if existing regulatory, administrative, and institutional constraints to
private sector activity are effectively removed. Indeed, these
constraints -- as described in Chapter II -- have strongly contributed
to a deterioration of Guinea's image as a place to do business,
undermining in the process the initial goodwill and enthusiasm shown by
private investors in the wake of the change of government and of the
reform program launched in the mid-1980s. It is in this respect
unfortunate that the drying up of private _4ivestment occurred despite
the adoption by the Government of the impressive array of reforms
affecting the mocroeconomic environment.
64.          One of the main factors behind the above has been the
contrast between the government's clear intentions to open up the
economy to private initiative on one hand, and the limited capacity or
willingness of executing agencies to implement this new policy in its
daily dealings with private entrepreneurs on the other. It is now clear
that the set of macroeconomic reforms already undertaken will not
suffice to reverse the unfavorable investment trends, but that these
initial reforms need to be complemented by interventions specifically
designed to draw back private promoters. For the reforms to take
effect, the Government will also have to improve the responsiveness of
Guinea's administration to the specific needs of these promoters.
65.          The objective of the Program will thus be to establish a
more favorable local business environment that will encourage both local
and foreign promoters to invest in new productive activities. This will
be achieved through a combination of actions and policies to include,
inter alia, a simplification of existing regulations, a rationalization
of the incentive framework, and a strengthehing of the government's
capacity to provide support to individual entrepreneurs -- while



- 21 -
changing the attitude of civil servants at all levels from that of
private sector "watchdog, to that of facilitator and purveyor of
essential services.
66.          Attitudinal changes involved on the part of these public
officials will only occur over a fairly extended period. What can be
changed in the short run is the operational framework under which the
administration is currently functioning, through the setting of new
rules, improved incentives, and more effective institutional set-ups.
To implement these reforms, the Program will also rely on technical
assistance made available to the Government through the EHSP Project as
well as on bilateral assistance from France. In particular, Caisse
Centrale and FAC have indicated their readiness to associate themselves
to this operation through the financing of specific technical assistance
activities (see para. 103 on co-financing).
67.          The proposed Program will usefully complement the Bank's
overall country strategy for Guinea. It would deepen the reforms
already undertaken under the two Structural Adjustment Credits, by
focussing on the detailed legal and regulatory reforms now required to
bring about the needed supply response from the private sector (see
below). It would also make direct use of the administrations' improved
technical and managerial capacity to result from the Economic Management
Support Project, particularly in Customs, in the Ministry of Finance,
and at the Central Bank; it would also complement the legal assistance
program provided under that project, by concentrating more specifically
on continued weaknesses in the application of banking and commercial
law.
68.          The Program also would represent a new approach to private
sector development in Guinea. In the past, efforts to promote private
investment revolved around the privatization of parastatals, the
provision of technical assistance to key ministries, and the
establishment of credit lines, such as that financed under IDA's
Industrial Rehabilitation Project. However, that strategy fell short of
creating a more buoyant and competitive environment for private
activity. In particular, the IDA-financed line of credit for SMEs,
although actively used in 1985-87, then fell into disuse, due in part to
continued lack of demand related to sluggish investment levels. The
strategy adopted under the proposed operation would be to establish an
environment more conducive to business activity, setting the stage for
other supportive activities to the private sector in the future.
69.          As described below, the Program would introduce a wide-
ranging set of reforms relating to the legal and regulatory framework,
the incentive structure, the institutional set-up, and the functioning
of the financial sector. The reform package has been endorsed at the
highest level of Government, in line with the President's recent appeal
to encourage investment in the private sector. Many of the reforms
considered have already been implemented in the course of Program
preparation, particularly with respect to the incentive structure and to
financial sector policy. The objectives and content of the Program are
summarized in a Statement of Sectoral Policy (Appendix 6).



- 22 -
B. The Establishment of an Enabling Investment Environment
1.   Improving the Legal/Regulatory Framework
70.          One of the Government's top priorities in the coming years
will be to make the legal framework governing private sector activity
coherent, as well as to overcome the procedural/administrative obstacles
to its effective implementation. This will be a complex task which will
take years to complete and will be no doubt resisted by entrenched
interests. However, any major improvement in the investment climate is
contingent upon progress in this area. On the legislative side, the
Bank-financed EMSP technical assistance project is presently assisting
the Government in: (1) conducting a global review of existing
legislation; (2) making regulations and procedures more consistent with
the general intent of the law; and (3) formulating new legislation as
required. EMSP-financed consultants are also helping the Government
publish the Official Gazette, which was reinstituted in January 1989.
71.          As part of the proposed Program, the Government will
clarify and simplify procedures governing the establishment and
registration of private firms. A detailed review of existing
legislation -- including the Commercial Code -- has been completed with
assistance from the EMSP legal advisors, and proposals aimed at
eliminating ambiguities in registration procedures and making the
process more automatic have been drafted. The Government will abolish
the need for individual promoters to obtain a commercial license to
operate, with specific decrees to be issued as a condition for Board
presentation. Instead, new streamlined enterprise establishment
procedures will be introduced, to involve the creation of a one-stop
window where all registration formalities will be completed in a single
place (see para. 83) lO/.
72.          As pointed out in Chapter II, labor hiring procedures need
to be simplified and made more flexible for employers. The new Labor
Code lays down the legal foundations for employer-employee relations.
However, Code procedures for the hiring of labor are both too
restrictive and complex. The Government has drafted, with assistance
from the International Labor Organization and the Bank, implementation
guidelines for the new Code, aimed at eliminating ambiguity of
interpretation of the Code's provisions and at no longer making its
implementation subject to the discretion of the Ministry of Labor's
Inspection Service. These guidelines will be enacted by the Government
prior to Credit effectiveness. The new guidelines will then be
appropriately publicized through a workshop to include representatives
from the private sector and from the trade unions. Meanwhile, labor
inspectors will be provided with ongoing training related to their
responsibilities under the new Code, to be financed under IDA's
Industrial Rehabilitation Credit.
10/ A description of specific conditionality related to this and other
issues will be found in Section IV.



- 23 -
73.          As per the recommendations of a recent UNDP-financed study
of the role of the Ministry of Labor's National Labor Office (ONEMO),
the Government will transform the Office into a unit responsible for
labor statistics and the monitoring of the labor market, thus leaving
individual finms free to select and contract local workers directly
without intervention from the Ministry of Labor. The legal texts needed
to restructure ONEKO have been drafted, and their execution will also be
undertaken prior to Credit effectiveness. Concurrently, ONEMO's
capacity to undertake effectively its new functions will be
strengthened, in particular through technical assistance financed under
UNDP's ongoing project and through computerization of its operations to
be financed under IDA's Industrial Rehabilitation Credit.
74.           A review of the land tenure issue is currently being
undertaken by the Government, to lead to the adoption in 1990 of a new
Land Tenure Code. Once the new Code adopted, the Government will, as a
condition for second tranche release, establish a conceptual and
operational framework outlining private property rights, to include an
appropriate system for their publication. Such rights will at a minimum
allow promoters to pledge commercial buildings and other property as
collateral for bank loans (see also para. 97 for other measures relating
to the legal environment for banking activity).
2.   Rationalizing the Incentive Structure
75.          The new Investment Code introduced in January 1987 sets a
generally satisfactory policy and incentive framework for potential
investors. However, the continuing award outside of the scope of the
Code of ad hoc exemptions and other special incentive packages
constitutes a significant source of distortion of the incentive
framework, and particularly of the new trade regime introduced in 1986.
Such exemptions are typically part and parcel of establishment
conventions signed between technical ministries and individual
promoters, and therefore cannot be eliminated outright. As a first ster.
to rationalize the system, the Government prohibited in February 1989
the grantinR of exemptions by individual ministries without the prior
approval of the Ministry of Finance and, when required, of the Ministry
of Plan. Next, the Government will institute prior to Board
presentation the obligation for all special conventions negotiated by
individual ministries to be specifically reviewed and commented upon by
the National Invesment Commission (CNI) before final approval by the
Ministry of Finance, thus making the CNI an obligatory passage for all
privileges granted within or outside of the Code's framework. In the
process, CNI would ensure that exemptions granted under these
conventions are generally consistent with the scope and intent of the
Investment Code.
76.          In addition, as a Board condition for the proposed Credit,
the Code's effectiveness and attractiveness will be improved through
clarification of eligibility criteria and other conditions, in line with
the recommendations of a Bank-financed study on the incentive structure.



- 24 -
Concurrently, the technical capacity of CNI's Secretariat will be
strengthened, in order to: (1) improve the review of all special
conventions presented for its approval; (2) ensure heretofore strict
application of the Code's provisions; and (3) coordinate monitoring
activities to be undertaken by the Secretariat and various other
government departments to ensure beneficiaries' compliance with the
Code's provisions. FIAS will provide short-term technical assistance as
needed to restructure CNI and establish new operating procedures, while
Caisse Centrale is committed to provide the CNI Secretariat with long-
term assistance to help build up its internal technical and managerial
capacity. Also, computerization of CNI operations will be financed
under IDA's Industrial Rehabilitation Project.
77.          In addition, a separate unit was set up within Customs in
November 1989 to monitor the award of all duty and tax exemptions
granted within or outside the Investment Code. The unit's operating
procedures and precise functions will be formulated in conjunction with
a recently appointed FAC-financed technical assistance team in the
Ministry of Finance.  Based on preliminary work done as part of the
Bank-financed study on the incentive framework, the unit will first
compile a complete inventory of all exemptions granted to date,
assessing their distortionary effects on the incentives framework as
well as the resulting loss of revenue for the Government. That
inventory will serve as a basis for the establishment of a definitive
list of exemptions, their beneficiaries, product coverage, and period of
validity, to then serve as a basis for monitoring their application. It
will also help the Ministry of Finance clarify contradictory or
incomplete provisions contained in previously-signed special
conventions.
78.          The uneven implementation of the scheme allowing for the
deductibility of turnover taxes on imported inputs penalizes domestic
producers vis-a-vis importers/traders. Improved application of the
scheme in a uniform and systematic manner will depend in large measure
on the overhaul of tax administration itself, a detailed diagnostic of
which has recently been completed by the IMF. The Government will take
up the issue of improving implementation of the deductibility scheme in
the wider context of efforts to reform the Tax Department under the
Economic Management Support Project.
79.          Fair treatment of domestic manufacturing activity is not
possible without a complete overhaul of Customs Administration. In this
context, a number of initiatives are underway. In February 1989, the
head of the Customs Department was relieved of his duties as part of the
strongest attempt yet by the Government to clean up the service.
Following several months of uncertainty, during which the Department was
left to be managed by an interim team, a new Director General of Customs
was appointed in October 1989. As part of this Program, the Government
then undertook to: (1) revise outdated valuation tables for imported
goods; (2) institute as of April 1990 an obligatory written customs
declaration applicable to all Customs offices, and train offices
managers in applying the new procedures; (3) deploy Customs officers
along Guinea's borders in order to reduce the incidence of illegal



- 25 -
imports; (4) create an eight-person strong Inspection Service; and (5)
train 25 inspectors of the Ministry of Finance in existing customs
procedures.
80.          As described in an appendix to the goverrment's Statement
of Sectoral Policy, the second phase of Customs reform will includes (1)
adoption of a new Customs Code, the draft of which will be submitted
shortly to the CCEF; (2) revision of the import tariff structure, in
order to fine-tune it to the specific situation and needs of each
sector; (3) simplification and rationalization of customs clearance
procedures at the port and aeroport, in line with the recommendations of
an ongoing study by the EMSP technical assistance team; (4) the
completion of a procedures manual describing step by step the new
responsibilities of customs officers; and (5) a EMSP-financed training
program for customs agents, including overseas training for Customs
inspectors. These reforms will be undertaken by the Government prior to
second tranche release. Yet other actions will be taken in the future,
based upon the recommendations of an Interministerial Committee set up
by the Government to restructure Customs. Such actions will include,
inter alia, a new organizational chart and operational mode for Customs
Administration, and the installation of a computerized system for
customs control.
81.          In order to carry out the above, Customs will benefit from
technical assistance provided under the aegis of the EMSP Project. A
senior FAC-financed advisor has now been placed in a position of line
responsibility in Customs , and another two advisors have been appointed
to deal respectively with customs valuation and with the setting-up of
15 roving anti-smuggling brigades (brigades mobiles) throughout the
country.  The new team will, as a priority: (1) seek to improve Customs
efficiency, particularly through the establishment of a reliable system
to assess declared import values and combat under-invoicing; (2) help
strengthen and restructure customs' services; (3) draw up a plan for
training and upgrading of personnel; and (4) the setting-up of the new
mobile anti-smuggling brigades.
3.   Restructuring the Institutional Framework for Investment
Promotion
82.          Given the ineffectiveness of the host of investment
promotion institutions currently operating in Guinea, the Government
will commit itself under the Program to establish a rationalized and
effective investment promotion institution, in line with the
recommendations of a recently-completed, Bank-financed study. The
National Center for the Promotion of Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises
(ONPPME) will be replaced by a small, private sector-oriented
institution to be managed and staffed by professionals with first-hand
experience in dealing with the needs of private operators. It will
remain under the general oversight of the Ministry of Industry, but its
Board of Directors will have mixed public-private composition. The new
institution will aim at providing promoters, particularly local SME
operators, with pre-investment services such as the review of the



- 26 -
technical and financial feasibility of their projects or the completion
of project documentation to be presented to iocal banks for financing.
However, given the typical inability of publicly-sponsored institutions
to provide effective services of this type to private sector operators,
the delivery of such services will be contracted out to private agencies
or individuals (accounting and auditing firms, lawyers, management
consultants, etc.). Promoters will be asked to shoulder at least part
of the cost of such services, with the remainder being financed out of a
special fund to be set up by the Government and the donor community.
83.          As already mentioned, the Program will also involve the
creation of a one-stop window allowing for the completion in a single
place of all formalities required to legally establish a new enterprise.
In line with the above obiectives, the Government will submit prior to
Credit effectiveness a plan outlining the proposed modus operandi of the
institutions dealing respectively with enterprise registration.
promotion of SMEs, and the promotion of overseas investment.
C. The Deepening of Reforms in the Financial Sector
1. Implementation of the Reform Program
84.          Despite the Government's success in re-establishing since
1985 a fully functional financial system, the latter has still fallen
short of its anticipated role both in terms of the effectiveness of the
financial intermediation process, and of the system's ability to finance
private sector investment. The Credit will support interventions in the
financial sector at the policy level, complementing past IDA initiatives
such as the establishment of a line of credit for SMEs and other
services provided under IDA's Credit 1234-GUI. In dealing with
financial sector policy, the Program is consistent with the Bank's new
financial sector guidelines which call first and foremost for the
setting of an appropriate policy environment for financial sector
development -- over and above the channeling of resources for targeted
sector lending.
85.          Much has already been accomplished during the preparation
of the proposed Program. The Central Bank has in particular introduced
a number of reforms seen as key to a more effective financial sector,
including two rounds of across-the-board adjustments and/or
liberalization in both deposit and loan interest rates (see paras. 88
and 90 below), initial rationalization of refinancing windows made
available at the Central Bank (para. 93), and the establishment of a
BCRG-managed risk-management unit available to commercial banks (para.
99). Moreover, the Central Bank has, under the guidance of the IMF,
signed an agreement with Treasury designed to regulate the latter's
access to BCRG advances (para. 95). Further reforms in these areas will
be undertaken as needed under this operation.



- 27 -
2.   Interest Rate Reform
86.          Given the public sector's weak projected savings capacity
and limited access to external financing, private savings will be key to
future growth and investment: aggregate private savings should,
according to Bank projections, account for 61 percent of total national
savings and provide close to 75 percent of the resources needed to
finance private investment over 1988-93. The achievement of broad
economic objectives is thus contingent upon a strong deposit
mobilization performance in the private sector.
87.          In the absence of major distortions in the market,
appropriate real rates of interest would result from normal competition
between banks. In the case of Guinea however, lack of competition for
deposits will in the foreseeable future require continued intervention
of the Central Bank to provide adequate interest rate incentives for
private depositors. In view of the financial sector's weak mobilization
of local savings, an upward readjustment of deposit rates was thus long
overdue. Although the elasticity of local savings levels with respect
to interest rates is unknown, it is still clear that establishing
positive real interest rates is a precondition to capturing a higher
share of local savings in the system, by encouraging the public to
deposit its savings in local banks rather than investing in other, non-
monetary investment hedges. Similarly, higher deposit rates are needed
to convince holders of offshore, foreign exchange accounts to shift
their savings to local currency deposits.
88.          During project preparation, the Central Bank has, as
already mentioned, taken a number of steps in the right direction. It
introduced in February 1988 savings accounts bearing an interest rate of
12 percent, since increased to 16 percent. It then increased minimum
rates on time deposits from 17 to 19 percent in January 1989, and to 21
percent in September (Appendix 2, Table 2). These rates represent
substantial progress towards the achievement of positive real interest
rates, as inflation has slowed down to an estimated 26 percent in 1989.
89.          Clearly, future adjustments to the interest rate structure
should follow changes in inflation levels. Tighter fiscal discipline
linked to the adjustment program is expected to reduce inflation to 16
percent in 1990, which would establish positive term deposit rates of 5
percent at present levels. As part of this operation, interest rates on
both sight savings accounts and time deposits will be reviewed twice-
yearly with the Central Bank and adjusted as needed to ensure further
progress towards the establishment of positive real deposit interest
rates. The first review is to take place in August 1990, when inflation
figures for the first six months of the year will be known.
90.          The existence of a 25 percent interest rate ceiling on all
loans has constituted another source of distortion in the financial
sector, involving the subsidization of those t w enterprises with access
to institutional credit. Together with the Jaiuary 1989 adjustment in
deposit rates, the Central Bank removed the interest cap on short-term
loans. In September, it then liberalized interest rates on term loans,



- 28 -
removing one of the disincentives for banks to extend such loans from
their own resources.
91.          Interest rate reform on both the deposit and the lending
sides should eventually lead to increased competition in the banking
sector and thus to a narrowing of the exceptionally high spreads
available to local banks. Such narrowing will in turn force banks to
reduce their unusually high operating costs, which could be achieved
through a combination of cost-cutting (particularly through reduction of
expatriate staff) and of higher activity levels that would reduce the
banks  average cost of lending.  In the short run, interest rate
liberalization is however not expected to materially affect gross
margins in the banking sector, with both the average cost of funds and
the lending rates applied to the banks' traditional customers moving
gradually up.
3.   The Rationalization of Credit Markets
92.          Interest rate reform can only be fully effective if
implemented within the framework of a rational monetary policy. The
Central Bank has initiated two types of actions in that respect:
(i)  in January 1989, it consolidated and simplified the various
discount/refinancing windows open to commercial banks; and
(ii) it signed in March 1989 an agreement with Treasury which
restricted Treasury's access to cash advances at the Central
Bank.
93.          The rationalization of BCRG's discount/refinancing schemes
involved both the consolidation of the five former windows into three
new windows as well as increases in the cost of such resources to the
banks (a second round of increases took place in September 1989; see
Appendix 2, Table 2). Commercial banks now have access to three types
of refinancing to manage short-term, local currency liquidity: (1) a
normal discount window at 24 percent (up from 17 percent previously);
(2) a preferential window at 14 percent; and (3) interbank financing, at
a rate freely negotiated between banks. This constitutes an important
improvement over the five separate refinancing schemes available until
January 1989, which included, inter alia, a super-preferential window at
only 7 percent. Further progress in reducing the implicit subsidies
available through refinancing will be reviewed with the Central Bank at
the time of the semi-annual review of interest rates, with in particular
a view towards narrowing the abnormally high ten-point gap between the
preferential and normal discount rates.
94.          IDA will also maintain a continuing dialogue with other
donors aimed at seeking a reduction of the level of subsidization on
foreign currency financing available through externally-funded lines of
credit. In this respect, Caisse Centrale has indicated its willingness
to increase rates on its SME line by about two percentage points at the
time of its renewal later this year.



- 29 -
95.          The newly-signed agreement between BCRG and Treasury
governing BCRG advances to the Government resulted from continued
dialogue with the rMF on vays to control the budget deficit. As per
that agreement: (1) Treasury will from now on be charged interest on
BCRG advances (albeit initially at a token rate); and (2) the level of
such advances will be limited to a given percentage of Government tax
receipts, as per the system already applied by BCEAO to its member
countries in West Africa. This agreement will result in tighter control
on the financing of public deficits, and thus force stricter fiscal
discipline on the Government.
96.          Finally, the proposed operation will aim at improving the
legal/judiciary framework surrounding credit activity. Guaranteeing
local banks' access to legally enforceable collateral is a long-term
objective which first requires resolving the wider issue of land and
property rights. As a first step, the Government will adopt a Land
Tenure Code that will provide the foundation for the establishment of
private rights on buildings and other commercial property in urban areas
(see para. 74). This will allow such buildings to be pledged as
collateral for bank loans.
97.          Also, a series of actions will be agreed upon with
Government aimed at improving the effectiveness and objectivity of the
legal and para-legal professions in cases involving banking and
commercial transactions. A specific action program will be agreed upon
with the Government by September 1990, based upon the recommendations of
a recently-completed study financed under the FAC Trust Fund. The
program will include the training of iudges in commercial and banking
law, and is expected to lead to greater transparency of court decisions
through improved publicity and the establishment of jurisprudence
records. FAC has indicated its readiness to finance selected activities
in this area. The launching of such reforms would be particularly
timely, occurring as they would in the aftermath of the President's
November 1989 declaration on the need to clearly separate the judiciary
and the executive branches of Government. They would contribute
strongly to the capacity of individuals, entrepreneurs, and banks to
enforce their contractual rights, a key step towards building up
investor confidence in the local environment.
98.          Also, initial steps have been taken in the course of
Program preparation towards the possible setting-up of a bonded
warehouse in Conakry, in line with the recommendations of a recently-
completed, Bank-financed pre-feasibility study. Such a warehouse would
greatly facilitate the financing by banks of imported commodities, which
could be kept warehoused as collateral for loans until their release
against gradual or total payment by the trader.  Such a warehouse would
also facilitate export financing -- particularly in the case of
agricultural commodities -- by allowing banks to keep physical control
of these commodities as they are shipped in from the interior for
export.  As per the study's recommendations, the construction and
ownership of the warehouse would be entrusted to a property company
(socidte de capital) with mixed public-private shareholding, while the



- 30 -
operation of the facility would be the exclusive responsibility of a
management company (societe d'exploitation) which would include various
private sector interests (shippers, forwarding agents, banks, local
trading companies, etc.). Since various private projects have cropped
up since the completior. of the study (including one with possible IFC
involvement), a further review of the feasibility of a Government-
sponsored project will be undertaken in the course of the proposed
operation.
4.   Enhancing the Effectiveness of the Central Bank
99.          As already mentioned, the Central Bank has, while carrying
out its many tasks unrelated to the monitoring of financial markets,
failed to establish a capacity to monitor, control, and supervise the
banking sector. However, liberalization of the financial sector cannot
be undertaken in the absence of adequate regulation and supervision by
the Central Bank. BCRG has already initiated a number of actions in
that respect, aimed in particular at improving access to information on
the banking sector. It has established a reporting format to be used by
commercial banks for their quaterly submissions to the BCRG. It has
also set up a risk management unit (centrale des risques) allowing banks
to keep abreast of their clients' obligations with other local banks.
100.         Under the proposed Credit, the Central Bank will also
substantially strengthen its regulatory and supervision capacity, to
include: (1) issuance and verification of application of prudential
ratios applicable to individual banks, such as capital adequacy,
liquidity and asset-risk ratios; and (2) closer scrutiny of banks'
financial soundness, both through direct inspection and through
systematic review of their financial statements. Progress in these
areas will be assessed at time of second tranche release. In order to
carry out this program, BCRG will be provided two long-term advisors
financed by USAID under EMSP, one for bank supervision, and the other to
help BCRG collect and analyze balance-of-payments statistics.
Additional short-term interventions could be financed as warranted by
IDA (under the Industrial Rehabilitation Credit) and the French.
PART IV. CREDIT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Amount and Timing
101.         Preparation of the proposed operation first began in February
1989 with IDA's first identification mission. The detailed content of the
Program was agreed upon during the appraisal and post-appraisal missions
which took place respectively in June 1989 and February 1990. Program
design was based in part on the findings of several studies financed by IDA
(see list in Appendix 8). An IDA Credit of SDR 38.7 million (US$50
million-equivalent) would be made to the Gover.,nent at standard IDA terms
in support of the proposed reform program. The Credit would be disbursed



- 31 -
in two equal tranches, the first tranche being made available at
effectiveness and the second tranche upon satisfactory progress in
implementing selected actions agreed upon with Government.  Specific
conditions that would have to be met by the Government are summarized in
the Policy Matrix (Aypendix 5).  The proposed Credit would be disbursed
over an 18-month period extending to December 1991.
B. Coordination with the IMF and IFC
102.         The proposed operation has been prepared in close
coordination with the IMF, and its thrust is in line with the content of
the PFP. In particular, the IMF has been associated with decisions
affecting on-going and proposed policy changes related to interest rate
reform, monitoring and supervision of the banking sector, and the tariff
regime. The presence of IMI advisors to the Central Bank will ensure
coordination of future interventions at that level. The reforms to be
carried out under the Credit were also designed in close liaison with IFC
and with PIAS. In particular, FIAS completed a comprehensive review of
Guinea's investment climate in September 1988, the content of the proposed
operation being fully consistent with the review's recommendations.
C. Co-financing
103.         The important links this operation and Guinea's overall
adjustment strategy has attracted strong interest from the donor community.
In particular, Caisse Centrale, of which a representative participated as
an observer in Credit negotiations, has indicated its interest in financing
technical and other assistance required to strengthen tne National
Investment Commission (see para. 76), and possibly the new institution
responsible for the promotion of SMEs. PAC will for its part finance
specific measures to be adopted to strengthen the judiciary system, such as
the training of judges in banking and commercial law, based on the
recommendations of a consultant financed under the FAC trust fund. USAID
will be providing two long-term advisors to BCRG respectively for bank
supervision and for the collection of balance-of-payments statistics. UNDP
will be providing continued assistance to the Ministry of Labor's National
Employment Office.
D. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
104.         Proceeds from the Credit would be used exclusively for the
financing of 100 percent of the CIF costs of eligible imports. All public
sector as well as private sector imports would qualify for financing,
except for: (1) a negative list to include military equipment and luxury
consumer goods; (2) imported goods financed under tied bilateral credits or
by other multilateral donors; (3) imports of less than $10,000 per
contract; and (4) imports under existing contracts if they are single



- 32 -
source purchases (direct contracting), unless they qualify for proprietary
or standardization reasons, or if they are arranged under bilateral trade
agreements. The Credit would also include an aggregate ceiling of $25
million-equivalent for petroleum products and for foodstuffs. Quantity,
quality, and price of all eligible imports will be verified as part of the
standard verification undertaken at port of embarkation by the private
agency contracted by the Government.
105.         Direct imports by Government and the private sector would
require international competitive bidding (ICB) for contracts above US$2.0
million. For amounts below that amounts (1) the Government would follow
public procurement procedures, which were found to be acceptable to the
Bank; and (2) private sector purchases would follow established commercial
practices, and wherever possible, quotations from eligible suppliers in at
least two countries would be obtained.
106.         At Credit effectiveness, an initial amount of US$5 million
would be credited to a special project account to be established at the
Central Bank prior to effectiveness. The account would be replenished
regularly up to the limit of the first tranche on the basis of fully
documented reimbursement applications presented by the Central Bank's
Foreign Exchange Department, according to procedures presently used under
the SAC. The reimbursement applications will include all relevant
supporting documentation, including invoices, pre-shipment validation of
quality and quantity of goods, and customs declarations, and, in the case
of goods procured under ICB, solicitation of bids, evaluation reports and
contract. All relevant documentation including evidence of payment will be
maintained by the Central Bank for review by supervision missions.
107.         The funds generated by the sale of foreign exchange provided
by the Credit will be deposited into a counterpart fund account at the
Central Bank in the name of the Treasury. Counterpart funds will thereby
be channelled through the national budget according to standard public
finance expenditure procedures.
E. Program Administration and Auditing
108.         Overall responsibility for the implementation of this
operation will rest with the monitoring unit (Cellule Technique) of the
Government's Economic and Financial Coordinating Committee (CCEF). The
unit was involved throughout in program preparation, and is thus well aware
of the scope and content of the Program. Ha.-ing use of the permanent
secretariat established under the auspices of the EMSP Project, the unit
will keep track of the various facets of the Program and deal with pending
issues. It will also prepare semi-annual progress reports to be submitted
to IDA, with the first report due six months after effectiveness. An
Interministerial Committee has also been set up by the Government under the
Chairmanship of the Advisor to the Governor of the Central Bank (also a
member of the monitoring unit of CCEF), to deal with policy-related issues
and to ensure a smooth flow of information on the reform program between
the various ministries involved. The Committee will include



- 33 -
representatives from the ministries of Plan, of Industry, and of Finance,
as well as from the Central Bank. Representatives from other ministries
(Social Affairs and Labor, Justice, etc) as well as from the private sector
will be called upon to participate in committee deliberations as needed.
An audit report conforming to internationally accepted standards and
prepared by auditors approved by the Association will be submitted by the
Government within six months of the close of each fiqcal year.
109.         Both short- and long-term technical assistance will be
required to carry out the proposed reform program. Part of such assistance
(covering in particular the functioning of the new unit to monitor
exemptions, tariff hanmonizaticn, customs reform, labor law practices, and
the reinforcement of the Central Bank's supervision capacity) will be
provided for under the ongoing Economic Management Support Project, using
either existing technical advisors -- including, for the preparation of new
legislation, the legal assistance team -- or drawing on funds as yet
unallocated to specific activities. Other technical assistance required
under this operation would, as described in para. 103, be financed by
Caisse Centrale, FAC, and UNDP.
F. Benefits and Risks
110.         The Private Sector Promotion Program broadly aims at giving
new impetus to private investment in Guinea by: (1) removing legal and
regulatory constraints which continue to stifle private initiative
(enterprise establishment procedures, legal void surrounding the issue of
land and property rigths); (2) reducing Government interference in daily
business activity (hiring and firing of workers, harassment of private
operators by customs officals, etc.); (3) improving the competitive
environment (discontinuation of the ad hoc award of exemptions, effective
application of import duties); (4) making existing Government institutions
more supportive of private sector development (National Investment
Commission, National Labor Office, investment promotion institutions,
Customs Administration); and (5) increasing the banking sector's capacity
to provide key financial services to individual entrepreneurs (adoption of
interest rates conducive to the mobilization of resources, rationalization
of refinancing schemes at the Central Bank, improved treatment of legal
disputes involving loc-1 banks, stronger monitoring and supervision of
banking activity).
111.         These reforms, which would usefully complement the
macroeconomic reforms already undertaken under the SAC, are expected to
have a positive impact on the confidence of both local and foreign
promoters, and thus on their willingness to undertake new investment in
Guinea. As a result, the Program should enhance financial flows to sectors
heretofore starved of new capital. It will thus eventually boost growth in
the industrial sector -- a sector which has lagged behind in the context of
the government's overall reform program -- eventually bringing growth in
that sector up to par with overall economic performance.



- 34 -
112.         Social lmPact.  Government policy has been to ensure that
adjustment with growth is not pursued at the expense of equity. Policy
changes during the first phase of the adjustment program have shifted the
terms of trade in favor of rural producers. The Government therefore
adopted a number of transitional measures to cushion the adverse effects of
adjustment on vulnerable groups in urban areas, in particular through
higher salaries or voluntary departure bonuses for civil servants, and
labor-intensive work programs in Conakry funded in part through IDA's Urban
Project. Growth in industrial activity generated by the proposed operation
would contribute to such efforts, by providing a much-needed alternative
source of employment for the urban population, at a time of lay-offs tied
to the administrative reform program. It should generally lead to
improvements in overall living standards through the incleased revenue
flows tied to higher levels of activity throughout the economy.
113.         The risks involved in the Program are two-fold: (1) that,
given the long-standing negative attitudes towards the private sector by
public officials, the new set of reforms will not be taken seriously and
not be forcefully implemented by those government officials that deal on a
daily basis with business operators; and (2) that despite the new measures,
private promoters will maintain a wait-and-see attitude towards Guinea.
The first type of risk should be offset by the commitment felt at the
highest level of Government to push forward the reform program. In this
respect, the President himself has emphasized in two recent declarations
the importance of encouraging private sector initiative on one hand, and of
improving Guinea's judiciary and security environment on the other.
Implementation of the Program through the technical unit of CCRF should
also encourage individual ministries to pursue reforms in their field of
prerogative with all due diligence. Moreover, this operation does not only
focus on the regulatory framework per se, but also attempts to improve the
administration's oversight capacity, effectiveness, and accountability. In
that respect, technical assistance financed from EMSP and other sources
will play a key role in improving government responsiveness to private
sector needs, particularly within the Ministry of Finance (tax collection,
monitoring of special investment and duty conventions), Customs
Administration (actual collection of taxes, improved effectiveness of
customs services), and the Central Bank (closer supervision of the banking
sector).
114.         As for the risk that private operators might not respond
favorably to the reform program, it is clear that the combination of a
constraining regulatory and incentive framework and of the administraion's
interference in the daily operation of local businesses have been key
factors in local as well as foreign investors' reluctant attitude towards
Guinea. Given the country's strong -- and still mostly untapped --
economic potential, one can reasonably expect that private investors will,
in time, respond positively to the improved investment climate to result
from this Program.



- 35 -
G. Conditionality
115.         The Government has, in connection with the Program, submitted
a Statement of Sectoral Policy outlining its overall sectoral objectives,
and including specific action plans and timetables for their
implementation. Progress in implementing these various action programs
will be closely monitored in the course of this operation, with the
following measures being specific conditions of Credit approval and
disbursement (see Policy Matrix in Appendix 5):
Conditions for Board Presentation
(i) Signature by the Government of its proposed Statement of Sectoral
Policy.
(ii) Adoption of texts abolishing the requirement for private operators
to obtain commercial licenses to operate, and limiti-tg the
requirement to obtain technical licenses to specifically regulated
activities.
(iii)Clarification of the Investment Code's eligibility criteria.
(iv) Adoption of text specifying that all special conventions implying
the granting of fiscal or duty privileges should, prior to their
approval by the Ministry of Finance, be submitted for review to
the National Investment Commission.
Conditions for Effectiveness
Si) Issuance of guidelines for implementation of the new Labor Code
confirming an enterprise's freedom to hire and fire labor without
prior approval from the Ministry of Labor, and publication of
decree defining the new role of the Ministry of Labor's National
Labor Office (ONEMO) as a labor statistics unit.
(ii) Submission of an acceptable Action Plan to streamline
institutional framework for investment promotion.
Conditions for Second Tranche Release
(i) Enactment of legislation establishing basis for private rights on
buildings and other commercial property.
(ii) Implementation of first phase of customs reform program.
(iii)Establishment of new institutional framework for investment
promotion, including publication of decree establishing new
investment promotion institution for SMEs.



- 36 -
PART V. RECOMMENDATION
116.         I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and I recommend its approval by
the Executive Directors.
Barber Conable
President



- 37 -
APPENDIX I
Table 1
REPULIC of OUI 
PRIVATE SECTOR PRMOTION CREDIT
KEY MACROECOOIIOC INDICATORS
(excludlag transactions vith USSR)
1966    1967      1980    1904 199              1    1992    1998      19       1998
ea-.                   -projge to               d - ----------
Real arowth Rats (in S)
Groes dometic producte (%PW                          8.2       6.0       4.4     4.0       4.6      6.8    4.7    4.7       4.3
COP per capita                                       0.8       8.1       1.8     2.0       1.7      2.9    1.8    1.8       1.4
CenAtion per capita                                 -1.1       1.2       1.7     .0        8.1      1.7     1       16      1.2
In Current Prices
Debt Services USS millions)               107.9     124.6    164.1    140.8   140.6    162.7   188.8  137.8  120.3   102.0
Debt Services as a share of
exports of goods and NFS (9)             20.8      22.7      88.4      21.7    20.4      22.0    21.8   19.0   17.1    18.0
Dbt Serviee as a share of
gross dometic produec  (S)                8.7       6.1       7.8       .2      8.0       4.0      4.7    8.9    8.4       2.6
== ~~~~- - -- - -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - -- -- -- - --  - - - - - - - - -- -- -- -- __-_- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
In Current Prices
Cros Investment as I of MP                14.9      16.8      17.6      16.9    18.9      17.5    17.7   18.0   17.9    17.2
Dometic Savings a S of CDP                10.6      15.7      12.8      1S.1    17.4      18.7    18.7   18.7   18.S    15.0
National Savings as S of CMP              12.7      11.5       8.0      10.7    12.1      11.6    12.7   12.9   18.2    13.2
Public Investent as S of aCP               8.0       6.1       7.0       6.4     6.9       7.8      7.9    7.9    7.7       6.9
Private Invot_ent s IS of CDP                        9.9      10.2      10.9    10.6       9.0      9.7    9.8   10.0    10.8
Ratio Public to Private Investmnt         SO.8      89.7      64.1      60.1    77.1      81.8    80.0   78.7   75.0    68.3
Of Public Savings a S dof GP               1.8       4.1       2.2       4.2     6.7       6.9      7.7    7.7    7.9       8.4
0N Private Savings as S of COP            11.8       7.4   s .6          6.6     85        8.0      8.0    8.1    8.4       4.9
=o  _- --  -  -_ --  -  -- --  --  - - - - -- -__- - - -    - - -- -- -- - -- - - -- - -- -   -- - - __-_- - -  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
In Currnt Prices
Gornment revenues a S of ODP              11.8      1l.9      14.4      18.0    16.8      16.0    16.8   16.1   18.9    16.0
Oovernment Expenditure as S of COP        17.9      20.7      22.4      20.1    20.4      21.8    20.4   20.0   19.8    17.7
Deficit n I of CdP: *xcl grant            -4.0     -4.8    -11.4        -s..    -7.8      -8.0    -7.8   -7.8   -7. 1    -5.4
Deficit a S of GDP   d  gnal nt,          -6.0      -4.8      -8.0     -8.2    -8.8       -4.7   -4.9   -8.9   -8.4    -1.7
==_ - ----------------------------___ - _- - ---- ---- ------                  -------------
In Current Prices
Export of Oode and NFS. Growh Rate                   4.0      -5.1      24.1    11.4    -4.2        2.8    1.0    4.0       4.8
Exports as   of   1G                      27.8      26.7      24.1      27.7    27.7      28.1    24.1   22.6   21.9    21.3
Imports of Ooodo nd uS. arowth Rate                 22.4      1S.4      8.0      1.8      11.4      4.1    2.4    8.8       8.7
Imports as S of CDP 1j                    24.1      27.8         9     28.6    26.0       27.2    26.8   28.1   24.6    25.6
Current Account (US11 millions)          -42.1    -97.7   -281.4   -168.0  -111.0   -178.8  -166.8  -160.8  -178.7  -162.0
Current Account a S of CDP                -2.2      -4.8    -10.7      -7.1    -4.8    -4.4    -8.6   -8.7   -8.2    -4.4
J/      Date relating to external transactions ma shown in the balance of pymnts table diffor from those included in the
NteSIo   Income Account. Whitle the differencs have been minained foe the bas year (1901). projections for the
COP reflect trend- mamsad for the purpose of balance of paymnta projection.



- 38 -
APPXIX I
Table 2
RIEPULIC OF OUIN
PRIVATE SICOR PROMOTION CREDIT
BMALACE OF PAMETS. 1988-93
(In millions of U.S. dollars, excluding transactions with USSR)
iwo    1969    1000    im0    1I         too     i94     199
Trad elu..                         -25.4     4.0   1.:$      .9    8.        46.0    3492   3.
beO  ()89                               d64.:    no.7    o.    714.6    9        f.7   16.7
fame"                         644.4  -514.  -m.2   -9.    .06.0   7.    -714.8  -745.7
lac.     P t  tt r                -26.7  -357.5   -.2    -.6  -5.1  -35.7  -149.9  -&1.6
am-feote ow  e,   u*           -101.1  -115.1  -106.7  -2.1    -..   -15.5  --1.5  *1;0.
Fe~  eruices. not              -163.9  -194.8  -W.6  -16.3  -1J5.0  -1.2.0  -M81.?  -172.3
Pirivota t,emfre. not           -24.7  -45.7   -35.6   -41.1   -41.4   -41.2   -39.7   -36.7
Offil Trefera                       6 5    97.6   110.6   117.8   197.4   13.    137.0   140.9
Caa,ues Accomnt 8ble..            -21.6  -168.7  -111.1  -175.9  -.16.5  -10.5  -171.7  -161.9
cgital _                            50.5    61.      01.7   13t4.9   13.3   160.4   13.4   219.3
P..be ceelkI. m  term             18.0    4a.0    6.1    99.5   106.8   16.8   1a.6*   18.9
.bl- etoifel. ebert tews           0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     O.0     0.0     0.0     0.0o
Wed mining.^   "e"e               29.5     6.0      6.0    99.0    1.2    10.6    14.9    1.0
OVin. egete. iewl. me 41 is         .. .0.0    10.5   12.5    14.3    18.3    1.?    91.4
are eW omluem                       10.0     6.3     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.
be.eal  beown                    -170.0  .47.0   -29.4   -4.0   -=.2  -.1.1    0.           57.4
fro .  lee um                     170.0    97.6   29.4    25.       35.0   -0.0   .4.?    4.0
IDA med sofi^ega.ere. OL 1        43.9     5.2     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
CrdIit ll"w~t,ee fuds              3.0     6.9      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
MA8 VW dnesme  5". IX              0.0   4W.S    1.3        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Other eajue*Uo ledir4              0 0.0   0.0      5.0    10.0    30.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
0mee.s, ie *eere                  57.0   -6.5   -138.       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
One,e in reservem,                2.4   -21.7   -3.5   -18.2   -4.1    4.6   -U.0   -18.0
Dp. n t                          0.0    17.2      2.4   .4.0   -1.0   -4.2    -5.5    4.4
Otib, r.4   -8.9    4.7    -7.4   -4.1    -.4   -5.5   -4.7
Dbt re lie                        43.7   147.4    13.9      9.6     9.1     7.7    6.3       6.4
other                              0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     O.0     0.0      0.0
Pineg.ing p                          0.0     0.0     0.8   -17.4   -0.2   -1t.0       4.0    40.0



- 39 -
APPNDIX I
Table 3
REPUBLIC OF GUIE
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION CREDIT
GROSS DOMiSTIC PRODUCT - SCTORAL COMOSITION
(in billiona, PG 1986)
-  Aob                Es-  t                  oected- 
1186    1987  im        1989   1990      1991    1992  1998   1994    1995
Pdmzy Sector    200.8  207.8  208.8   2152   222.5    230.1   2382  247.  256.    255.8
Aobaullure       155.3  160.7  1602    165.0   1702      175.7   181.   187.8  194.4   2012
lheetock         27.3   282   28.       29.7    30.       32.1    33.4   35.1   36.5    37.
PlWhe             0.9    1.1    1A       1.8      1.9      22      2.6    3.2    3.7      4.0
Fh_y             17.3   17.8   18.4    190       19.5     20.1    20.7   21.3   22.0    22.6
econday Sector   218.7  237.8  248.1   260.4   270.8    2818    304.0  315.4  3299    344.5
Mkdno            163.9  190.4  183.8   189.5   191.1    191.9   203.6  2082   2D8.2   214.5
=M.d. 9salw      232   212   24.6    20.7    29.1         31.5    33.8   382   38A       40.3
Water, elec.      4.9    4.4    5.9      5.       62       6.e     7.0    7.5    7.9      83
-ons~uoUon       28.8   21.9   33.9    38.4    44A        51.9    56sO    68.    75.4    81.5
Tuftuy Secor    242.9  234.   295.1   275.2   253.4    309A    32n.5  3455  364.0   380.9
Trad             141.8  132.5  157.3   164.6   174.8    185.3   195.8  2092   31.8   2328
TMrn-t           23.8   24.9   26.7    27.6    29.2       30.7    32.4   34.3   38.0    37.8
Admdetaftn       429   41.8   44.2    43.6    47.6        48.8    50.0   51.3   5ze      53.9
Oer              34A    35.6   38.9    39.3    41.8       44.8    47.5   50.8   53.7    5.4
inodt Taxes         a9    11.3   10.4    12.8    13.0       14.1    1i.O   15.8   1.1    18.5
GOP at madraS
pln             671.2  691.8  732A             799.7    835A   868.7  923.9  96.6  1007.7
* 



- 40 -
APPENDIX II
Table 1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRIVATE SECTOR PROOTION CREDIT
FINANCIAL SECTOR. 1986-1989
(Year-end figures In billions of Guinea Francs)
1986       1987        1988        1989
(preliminary)
Net foreign assets                 7.9        25.1        11.1         24.3
BCRG                            -1.9        10.3        -5.8          8.1
Gold                           3.7         7.8        17.1         28.0
IMF (net)                    -11.2       -17.5       -24.5       -34.4
SDRs                           0.2         0.1         0.1          -
Foreign exchange (net)         5.6        20.5         2.5         15.5
Other                         -0.2        -0.6        -1.0         -1.0
Deposit Banks                      9.8        14.8        16.9         16.2
Net domestic assets               42.6        43.4        77.1         85.2
Domestic credit                 37.2        42.1        66.0         67.1
Public sector (net)           25.8        17.1        32.4         24.8
Government (net)            37.2        36.4        48.6        38.7
State enterprises (net)  -11.4        -19.3       -16.2        -13.9
Private sector                11.4        25.0        33.6         42.3
Other items net  1/                5.4         1.3         9.9         18.1
Liabilities to private sector   50.5          68.5        88.2        109.5
Money and quasi-money (MI)    42.6          59.6        80.2        103.8
Currency                     (34.6)      (43.3)      (55.7)       (69.4)
Deposits                      (8.0)      (16.3)      (24.5)       (34.4)
Foreign currency deposits        7.9         8.9         8.0          5.7
Indices/Ratios
Ml (constant GF, 1986-100) 2/  100.0         104.4       106.9        113.6
Ml as Z of GDP                     6.6         6.6         6.6          6.7 3/
Deposits as a of Ml               18.8        27.3        33.4         33.1
Sources: IMF and Central Bank of Guinea
Note:     Aggregate figures for deposits and credit outstanding take into
account the net position of parastatals (deposits minus loans
outstanding).
1/ Includes transactions with the USSR
2/   Based on CPI of 100 (1986), 134.0 (1987), 170.2 (1988), and 214.5
(1989)
3/   Estimated



- 41 -
APPENDIX II
Table 2
REPUBLIC OF GUIN
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION CREDIT
STRUCTURE OF INTERST RATES
May      January     January    January        Sept.      Feb
1988      1987        1988        1989         1989       1990
A. LOAN RATES
1. Central Sank Refinancing
Preferential Window (TREP)           9X     103         10%          11X          la%       14X
Regular Window (TREN)               11X     16X         17X          22X          24X       24X
2. Monetary Market
Rate to Lender                      -       12X         1SX                                 -
Rate to Borrower:
- outside Central Sank              -       16X         16 X         free         free      free
- through Central Bank              -       -          19-20S        22%          29X       29%
3. Rate to Sub-Borrower (Ce IlIngs)
8.1 Regular Rates
- Sh2rt term                   18x      20%         26X          free         free      free
- Medium term  1/               14X    A15          15s%         16%          free      free
8.2 Preferential Rates /
- SME., Agriculture 
Prof. equipment              10-12X   15X         1s%          1%           1ox       18%x
- Term lo ns other
than SllEs                     -     12-15X      lSX           18X          20X       20%
8.8 External Lines
- IDA iin  Tor SuEs  8/          -      -          11%           11X          115       n/a
- CCE line for SME.              -      -          10t           1lX          13%       14%
- CCCE line ('accord
cadre")                      -       -          17X           18X          20X      20X
- EEC Itn                        -      -           9X           10X          12%       12X
D. DEPOSIT RATES (Floors)
Sight Deposits                          -      OX         free          free          free     free
Savings Deposit                         -      -           12X          12X           14%      l6x
Non-Sight Savings                       -      -           12X          14%           16s%     1X
Term Deposits  !/                       -     1p           17%          l9X           21%      21X
Term Deposits In Convertible Gui.Fr.          17%          19X          21%           23%      23%
3/    Excluding OS.  commitment fee
V     Local currency loans, which In the case of SUEs, or term loans, complement foreign
currency financing available under CCCE's SUE and *accord cadre' lines respectively.
!I    Contrary to the CCCE and EEC lines, the foreign exchange risk under the IDA credit was
borne by the sub-borrower.
2/    For larger loans.
!I    Terms of six months and over (until January 1989), and three months and over (since
January 1989).



- 42 -
APPUIDI III
REPUBLIC OF GUIMNE
PRIVATE SECTR PROQ?OO CREDIT
SIRSIAR   PERFORNMA E unDE   PREMOUS AflJUS1UIN   opERaTIons It
R VI0X8 ubmsn - T OPw VAL 1
Policy Area
1. PUBLC SECTOR MA
A Pubic in e                           A        ot naol budg    In btol h  I I                       d d dCth
188ad19819                              mv           ordhk     gis *hdidS
Sgnae of ageem betw_en                                    dat
Tres      d Ventra" Ban* gveni
acoess by tesasy to Cel Bank                     u          of budgt and payql
advances (1969).              6be
. Publc Ensers Redonom                  69 pubIc enepis  0,lq td. 25                Compkon of        p_
plyefted, and ong  We _ d                   pgam  for                        lb
to irn6  b6 publc palo.                       In hpol  oFo
betWuon d bgl fraework snd
nmontorkn  evetqrem apliabl t o"tes
-          -  restructured.
C. Administative Peform                 Rsstmcbzrin- of pubc t,                     Cn d c   srv
number of vi evnardcdfo                      esne files
cra 90.       II OCO wI   Mdof I aiba
paeO   en teutar ad*tate  Wame
(087 49).
Upwad adjustment of saly sucte
D. ________                               for cli dvcnwDoe (Jan. 1969.
A. Leca Fmewk                           Adopion o     C  go         vem              Adoption d now customs and tax
*~n~   - .Fd  b     electricit. bbe4v       codes Wdun  Impiomentetion
com     l activty. la,bo Wes ad tNet        decres).
Proml          of accounti  standards
anid a procureent code (t19).
S.Tmde                                        So l, w                                     shcnua   admiAitbaIon
---                   resbAof qua v tions_ and       iowam compuerization of
of mot lcnnGo requiee   (1966).             cutms . '
itoducton of harmonized 10%
tuoVoer# tax on Imported ard Ices]          Enactmen of customs code.
goods (1969).
I. FINANCIAL SECrOR RESTRUCT.
A. F6ln exOaas Ains                     Major currency dewvakuon and                 Makineac  of gap bewen parallel
uNcan of exchange rte  (1986                anld dtc  eohawg  rtes at beobw
Establshment of a weeldy foreign
ex-         aucton (196).
Openwn f    to e on eha
auction to al cuent traaco  (19S7).
B. Reform of B U Sctor                   Cboure and liquidaon of all s
owned banks, and etblhsnw  of now
b   wIth  boren partioation (1985
66).
Upward adjstment of ites    s
(18 end 19682.
f      incldin  SAL4 (1963 and SAL-A (electiv  March 2. 1969.



-42a-                    APPENDIX IV
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA
Section Is     Timetable of Key Events
(a)       Total preparation time for operation           12 months
(b)       Preparation Responsibility                     Government/IDA
(c)       Project identification                         February 1989
(d)       IDA appraisal mission                          June 1989
(e)       IDA post-appraisal mission                     February 1990
(f)       Negotiations                                   April 1990
(g)       Board presentation                             May 1990
(h)       Planned date of effectiveness                  July 1990
Section II:    Special Conditions
Conditions for Board Presentation
(i)  Signature by the Government of its proposed Statement of
Sectoral Policy.
(ii) Adoption of texts abolishing the requirement for private
operators to obtain commercial licenses to operate, and limiting
the requirement to obtain technical licenses to specifically
regulated activities.
(iii)Clarification of the Investment Code's eligibility criteria.
(iv) Adoption of text specifying that all special conventions
implying the granting of fiscal or duty privileges should, prior
to their approval by the Ministry of Finance, be submitted for
review to the National Investment Commission.
Conditions for Effectiveness
(i)  Issuance of guidelines for implementation of the new Labor Code
confirming an enterprise's freedom to hire and fire labor
without prior approval from the Ministry of Labor, and
publication of decree defining the new role of the Ministry of
Labor's National Labor Office (ONEMO) as a labor statistics
unit.
(ii) Submission of an acceptable Action Plan to streamline
institutional framework for investment promotion.
Conditions for Second Tranche Release
(i)  Enactment of legislation establishing basis for private rights
on buildings and other commercial property.
(ii) Implementation of first phase of customs reform program.



- 43 -
(iii)Establishment of new institutional framework for investment
promotion, including publication of decree establishing new
investment promotion institution for SMEs.



-   44   -                                             APPENDIV
REPUBUC OF GUINEA
PIUVATE SECtOH PHIMvO11ON CRED(t
POUCY MArt IK
Constrati                                             Oblective/Prooed Ac-tion
1. TME EU9N9 ENSVIONME
A Thew Leajo Nua         Fmewok
1.       volnIent edur.. Steps equwd to                Abodihment of the pract  by bindlde mii s to rquie           Bad pentIn
*5t5DW  gan e    are    laengthy  d                  teohniai rcenes (sa4tMt_a!en     kpo ). exocpt In the ce
cumnbeisomne. Commercial leticse Is requed           of          i             law. Elmlinstion of th  ned to
T5chrkW license           O-.L                      =otain a cm cal liene _M
~~-~-   .~~  ~              Issuancewm    d new teas establihn  an anteupdases hefredo  to  EffmtwAess
them without the l.lnisIr~        This ~.            hre lbor directly  buance one s br                     d
-,  ~ ~ ~~ct                   ipsiin    fthe new. taorCodefW      **"d
restictd cosidrabl tie amq o huts t adpt n fa  of OnNlj     W Labor Office (ONEMO) asa labor         Second tranch  relas
s budta _li   to thi  brcaging  nabe,. etso pAdec uipetty.nmln  Jly
baks with adequate oollstere, aOdom mr
barns unable to frecse on del     t cWet
e. Inetv  tutr
1.    t       F                             ?ad  Th    Clarficaton   the InveWsmet Cods eig y            au         Board Presentao
Aiorn requi           a     n                      conventllons to be consistent wh the intet   t
tire ocie           f                        In u   = vestment COe, and to be revewed pro to .aproval by
~~~ t~~ossonitodyprforn-fice bysd                h  Na inve strment Commision (CMI. !1M:fl MaY10.
gtb||>df ratIonalIzed                   lh         e  Establishment within the minisy of Fina  od a centalzed
the new Code and thrOugh the harmonzed tradestem to monitor tatus of anl exeamions grantd to prae
reime s  irund  by( te indrmina  awar                P          acion corpleted)
ofg l8 nd duty emtions by 11dduai ministre
d   specIal ta   et      c     t       h             S hrig   oftCW O cIt.         o monoitor, In coordnat
causes attorons in the o         on m      u        f wIth   er departmwnt,           d c e Oivdulvst1
Wd pus  am  ccll  firmn at a                         with aag  pr ins d th  lnvesment Code,
a Cutoms Admistraton  Laxity and frad on a              onsino    non    cinPa   oaaa                      tw
uZ UIau o            n * Coms Adndnistration to hl up  C           timeudtion       Plan to ovhul the enre
clbarance of bnpors and hers ipts for                                                                              Sea Cu  n   w  rea Ocsee0.
paym dnts  The Governwn colets only a sl             hnp e             of fsd phae d cusms refo    pgm    t            d  tnhe e
portion of dus and taxes due.                         Aide promuigation at he new Cusons Code  T3n
lune91.
.    mm     i Pomoto. Sevral In ment protmO             Agr    n on Ation Phn  0 st_reamlne insiuion                 Effe0ve
wmsrmuuons ame presetly operatnfg in Gurinea. They   frmework" forn inetetPromotion. nm!w'  IJuly
soe WI"qulpped to carr  ot     n the e iamhr mtandha t
= ,,,6r  a%:d            (NPP.ne             EtalIhmntof new institutonl framewor tk forivsmen              ecn  racemee
Thav e been ecually                                       d dw_                rw 
inbetv  in Pomtn  prvt intment                          P ,  h b   pulcain od decree estblihing new
prootion Instutio  rot SUE.    :   June11
U FINAICIAL SECTOA
Al            Mo at    Swings moblized by the             As a fir step, Cwet    Sank hs Introduced now  stdn 
bnnano            gm "IOe to                         aoul es  nt e  a fls (Feb8), a    his nteresa rate  on s
s          t                                         to toire piw9 InlyS 0               structyre
t    lumcdolirm  of Cna0 rix c. Crei h mukaltt   er  Govmnert snd Central ank hae aled  sind
s_hemes (prafhoent~?~scount windows,         ~       - ewngaccess by Treasry to          BanSW
~unded elines d credit. Tur ~ .                          Aeemet on  Arofo Plan to Imrw capact d
e   oIet diclary sysbm  to dewith ca   reled to bng
anrbth  c    d$Mayd b_       IS0.
isgatfjudicisttj mbOW1182, harkS h. adOPted           finrptemstlon d the key  _atur  d the mform pmnen
desgned to stengstn the Judbicy       Td      June.Sf
The Cen       Bank has alteade  taken  iti   o ra4tionlz
heno   l onlnk d credit nmarkts by reduc     both nmber d
wirclows and the subsy lavet ivlrvhed  B*nk Is to
coordinate with other doms to reduce disupmte ofleos Of
highly subsidized donor4uded line d cs Concurrently.
Centrl Bank will rduce as rded the mpied inters rat
subsidy on prefereW  window.
C        t     w.  candetyt            Theel   catalv      OalW Bcnk hasmal  estathd  fbtk   n           tweo   unft
b cmthercial bwlt                                                             ng  osoep wi ol hlrnu   d
techni    _asance  d  prepardaon of tai    progra  to
strnhn   the Centl Banks' capiy to spes the
bakg sector



- 45 -
AV_ENDiX VI
REPUBLIC OF GULIN
PRIVATEP SECTOR PRMOTION CREFDIT
STATMENTOF SECTORAL POLICY
Rw= 3=S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 46 -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION CREDIT
STATEMENT OP SECTORAL POLICY
INTRODUCTION
In spite of its considerable potential in agriculture,
mining and energy, since its independence twenty-five years ago
Guinea has undergone a significant economic decline. The
collectivist and centralist strategy pursued during this period
has managed neither to make full usage of local human resources
and promote private initiative in the area of production, nor to
develop the economic and social infrastructure needed for the
economy to operate smoothly.
In order to respond to the serious economic, financial and
social problems with which it is faced the Military Committee for
National Rehabilitation, which took power on 3 April 1984,
undertook to work towards liberalization and economic recovery.
To this end, towards the end of 1985 it adopted a global program
of economic and financial reforms aimed at better exploiting the
country's potential and ensuring sustained long-term growth.
Since the program adopted involved major government
divestiture in the field of production, it was essential that the
private sector step in and take over the role previously played
by the Government in this area, providing employment for job
seekers newly arrived on the market. Unfortunately, the response
of the private sector to the reform program was lower than
expected at this stage, with the private investor remaining
extremely hesitant in his attitude to the local market.
Consequently, the Government is considering launching an
important reform program whose objective is to give new impetus
to private activity in Guinea. The program is to receive the
support of the World Bank.
I.   THE ROLE OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR IN THE NATIONAL ECONOMY
A.   Objectives and Content of the Macroeconomic Reform Program
The reform program set up by the Government was intended to
introduce a package of economic incentives and to strengthen the
legal and institutional environment governing economic life, with
the specific objective of promoting private initiative. The
program consisted, inter alia, of measures aimed at: correction
of the significant overvaluation of the Guinean franc; the
establishment of a new, efficient banking system by replacing the



- 47 -
old State-controlled banks; the liberalization of trade and
prices; the restructuring of the central administration and a
reduction in administration staff numbers; the creation of a body
of efficient and motivated civil servants; government divestiture
from the industrial and commercial sectors; and improved
management within the public sector.
With particular regard to reforms affecting the private
sector, in 1986-87 Guinea made significant progress towards the
establishment of a true free market economy. The most drastic
reforms, those involving the monetary and banking systems,
constitute an essential precondition for economic growth. At the
beginning of 1986, the Government proceeded with the liquidation
of six State-controlled banks and arranged for the opening of new
private banks at Conakry with a network of agencies in ten
internal cities, replaced the syli with the Guinean franc,
reorganized the Central Bank (BCRG), and instituted a weekly
auction of foreign currency. The BCRG has adopted a system of
flexible, realistic exchange rates, with the official exchange
rate increasing from 23 at the end of 1985 to 630 today. The
BCRG has also endeavoured to promote a policy of credit to
encourage internal production, whilst respecting the constraints
involved in maintaining equilibrium in the balance of payments.
B.   Impact of the Program on Private Investment
In spite of the introduction of the reform program, private
sector activity in Guinea has remained concentrated in commerce
and trading, with estimated GDP generated in that sector in 1988
being four times larger than that of the non-mining manufacturing
sector. The liberalization and privatization process begun in
1985 has therefore failed to alter the stronig bias of economic
activity towards the trading sector: most of the newly-
established firms have focussed either on import trade with
Europe and other countries, or on internal trading and transport
activities. Manufacturing activity in general, and that of the
formal sector in particular, remains thin, with the non-mining
industrial sector accounting for only 5.5 percent of GDP in 1987.
In fact, indications are that the formal sector's share of total
manufacturing value added actually declined since 1984.
The bulk of the formal manufacturing sector is now comprised
of recently privatized state-owned enterprises. These firms
cover a wide range of activities, including the production of
alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, the production of fruit-
pulp, an industrial saw mill, a paint factory, a brick-making
plant, a cigarette plant, and a cement plant. Nevertheless, in
spite of having access to significant incentives far exceeding
the exemptions offered by the Investment Code -- including in
some cases the granting of monopoly status on internal production
-- these enterprises were not able to achieve the goals



- 48 -
anticipated, and their viability and sometimes even their
survival are still in doubt.
Other investment in the manufacturing sector has been
equally disappointing. A large majority of the enterprises which
have benefitted from the exemptions offered by the new Investment
Code have not yet become operational for diverse reasons, ranging
from delays in handling by the National Commission for
Investments, to a lack of required equity. More seriously, the
number of operating licenses awarded by the Ministry of Industry
started declining as early as 1987: only 14 licenses were
awarded that year compared to 89 in 1986. A more detailed review
of the industrial sector also reveals large variations between
subsectors: some subsectors, such as bakeries, woodwork and
simple metal manufacturing, already suffer from excess production
capacity, while others -- such as textiles -- are constrained by
insufficient capacity due to weak past investment levels.
Inadequate diversification is therefore still hampering growth in
the manufacturing sector.
The imbalance in the formal sector in favor of commerce
applies all the more to the informal sector, where employment in
trading has grown an estimated 42 percent between early 1985 and
early 1989, with the informal sector still playing a dominant
role in such activities. Manufacturing activity in the informal
sector, however, remains constrained by the limited local market
and the rudimentary character of production techniques employed.
II. PROGRAM JUSTIFICATION AND OBJECTIVES
A.   Description of Present Constraints on Private Investment
1.   Introduction
Both Guinean and foreign enterprises are faced with various
constraints, some of which are linked to the country's still
unfavorable economic environment, others to an administrative
framework which provides little incentive, and can sometimes even
be detrimental. In the former category, one constraint that
should be mentioned is the limited domestic market, aggravated by
competition from imports and the absence of export opportunities,
an infrastructure which is still dilapidated, and the absence of
local service companies to provide the required support to
potential developers. In the second category, the following
should be pointed outs the lack of adaptation of the legal and
regulatory framework governing private activity, the inadequate
management of the incentives framework, the inefficiency of
institutions promoting investments, and the inadequacy of credit
and other financial services offered by the major banks in Guinea
to satisfy demand. These diverse constraints are analyzed
separately hereunder.



- 49 -
2.   Legal and Regulatory Constraints
Legal and regulatory constraints include procedures for the
creation and registration of enterprises which are complicated
and the source of numerous frustrations for the developers
concerned. Not only does an entrepreneur need to sign up for the
Trade Register, taxes and social security; he/she must also
obtain a commercial permit and a trading license from the
Ministry of Industry, an often laborious process. In addition to
this, the supervisory ministry concerned almost always requires
of the entrepreneur a technical permit, although in principle
such a permit is legally required for only a limited number of
regulated professions.
In spite of adoption of a new Labor Code, staff recruitment
and dismissal procedures for private enterprises remain
restrictive. The National Office for the Labor Force (ONEMO -
l'Office national de la main d'oeuvre) has established an
obligatory channel for staff recruitment, with the selection of
staff being limited to candidates proposed by this agency. It is
therefore not surprising that enterprises have not been able to
find candidates who meet their specific requirements. The
recruitment or assignment in Guinea of expatriate staff has
proven to be even more difficult owing to the problems
encountered in obtaining the required work permits and visas
from the administrative departments involved. As for dismissal
procedures, these were complicated by a restrictive
interpretation of the laws by factory inspectors and trade
unions.
The absence of legislation guaranteeing access to the right
of ownership and land occupation complicates the work of
developers, discouraging them from investing in the construction
of premises since there is no guarantee of inalienable right of
ownership on buildings, and preventing them from using buildings
as security on loans from banks.
3.   Inadequacy of the Incentive Framework
Although a new Investment Code aimed at rationalizing the
incentive framework was introduced in 1987, this framework
remains distorted by the uncontrolled granting of special
exceptions which developers negotiate directly with their
supervisory ministries. These exceptions from normal procedures
have resulted, in many cases, in the granting of ill-considered
tariff or fiscal incentives which are difficult to justify from
an economic point of view. They have often distorted the
operation of free competition, resulting inter alia in the
granting of effective monopoly status.



- 50 -
In addition to this, although it establishes a generally
satisfactory incentive framework, the new Investment Code remains
unclear on certain points, in particular as regards conditions of
eligibility. Furthermore, the National Investment Committee (CNI
- la Commission nationale des investissements) does not have the
material and human resources required for the analysis and
monitoring of cases submitted to it by developers wishing to
benefit from the advantages of the Code. This has resulted in
abnormally long delays in replying to developers who have
submitted cases to the CNI. Finally, it should be noted that
owing to the absence of a centralized system for monitoring
exemptions granted within or outside the Code, the various
administrative departments concerned -- such as the Tax or
Customs Departments -- are not informed of incentives granted
individually to each enterprise, and this hinders the proper
application of agreements entered into with --he CNI or with the
ministry concerned.
The distortions noted are further aggravated by the poor
operation of the Customs Department. This problem has created a
significant loss of business opportunity for the Government in
regard to fiscal revenue, and also constitutes a major irritant
for enterprises which regularly encounter laxism and high-handed
behavior on the part of the employees of this Department.
Private importers thus find themselves obliged to negotiate
imports on a case-by-case basis with the officials concerned.
4.   The Inefficiency of Existing Promotional Institutions
Several investment promotion institutions have been
established in Guinea, the principal of which are: the National
Center for the Promotion of Private Investment (CNPIP - le Centre
national de promotion des investissements prives), which is
principally responsible for the promotion of Guinea abroad; the
National Office for the Promotion of Small and Medium-Sized
Enterprises (ONPPME - l'Office national de promotion des petites
et moyennes entreprises), responsible for assistance to small-
scale local developers; and the Office for Assistance in
Redeploying Civil Servants (BARAF - le Bureau d'aide a la
rdinsertion des agents de la fonction publique) whose job is to
promote the integration within the private sector of former civil
servants affected by the staff reduction measures adopted by the
administration.
Unfortunately, for varying reasons these different
institutions have not to date had the desired impact on local
private investment. Guinea does not have a sufficiently
favorable profile abroad to allow the CNPIP to attract potential
investors by means of direct promotional activities. For its
part, in spite of its sizable staff and its provincial units, the



- 51 -
ONPPME has not succeeded in actively promoting small-sized
Guinean enterprises, but has only carried out draft financial and
economic feasibility studies of little use to operators and of
little credibility vis-&-vis the banks in Guinea. The BARAF has
succeeded in getting numerous projects off the ground by having
them financed by the banks. However, these projects have often
suffered from questionable financial viability since their
financing has largely depended on the existence of a guarantee
fund limiting the commercial risk incurred by the banks involved.
5.   The Fragility of the Financial Sector
Following liquidation of the State-controlled banks in 1985,
the Government made every effort to set up a new banking system
which would better respond to the new demands of the economy. As
a first stage, the BCRG negotiated establishment agreements with
four banks with foreign participation which opened between 1986
and 1988. Through these banks, private operators now have access
to certain key services required for the daily operation of their
enterprises, such as the establishment of letters of credit and
free access to foreign currency on the foreign exchange market.
Nevertheless, the financial system as a whole is not yet capable
of providing solid support to enterprises in Guinea, whether they
be local or foreign. In particular, local banks continue with an
extremely restrictive credit policy cutting enterprises off from
the required financing, particularly with regard to medium- and
long-term investment credit. There are many reasons for the
conservative stance taken by banks, but they are principally
linked first, to the lack of real guarantees on the real estate
and personal estate of their clients, and second, to their
incapacity in the present context to vindicate their rights as
creditors.
B.   Objectives and Content of the Program for the Promotion of
Private Investment
The proposed private sector promotion operation evolved from
the Government's recognition of the central role that private
investment will have to play if Guinea is to achieve the
ambitious growth objectives it has set for itself in the coming
years. As a result of investors' low confidence level in the
opportunities offered by Guinea -- related in particular to the
absence of a supporting environment for business activity --
direct investment in new productive activities has -- after an
initial revival in 1985-87 -- slowed to a virtual halt. In this
respect, local investors have themselves opted for import and
trading activities allowing for a quick turnover of funds
invested, while avoiding the uncertainties of industrial
investment. Yet, faced with the consequences of the current
financial austerity program, Guinea badly needs new investment in



- 52 -
order to add value to local products, create new employment
opportunities, compete effectively against imports and, in some
key sectors, to trade actively on export markets.
However, an upsurge in private investment can only occur if
existing regulatory, administrative and institutional constraints
are gradually removed. Indeed, the above-mentioned constraints
have strongly contributed to the deterioration of Guinea's image
as a place to do business, undermining in the process the initial
enthusiasm for Guinea shown by private investors in the wake of
the change of government and of the reform program launched in
the mid-1980s. In this respect it is disappointing to observe
that the drying up of private investment occurred despite the
adoption by the Government of an impressive array of reforms
affecting the global macroeconomic environment.
One of the main factors in this situation has been the
contrast between the Government's clear intentions to open up the
economy to private initiative on the one hand, and the still
limited capacity and willingness on the part of the
administration to implement this new policy in its daily dealings
with the private sector on the other. It is now clear that the
set of macroeconomic reforms is not sufficient to reverse the
unfavorable investment trend. These initial reforms need to be
complemented by interventions specifically designed to attract
back private developers. In order to succeed, the Government
will therefore have to improve the responsiveness of Guinea's
administration to the specific needs of these developers.
The objective of the program will thus be to establish a
more favorable local business environment that will encourage
both local and foreign developers to invest in new productive
activities. This objective will be pursued through a combination
of actions and policies to include, inter alia, a simplification
of existing regulations, a rationalization of the incentive
framework, and a strengthening of the Government's capacity to
provide support to individual entrepreneurs, while changing the
attitude of civil servants from that of "watchdog' to that of
facilitator and purveyor of services essential to the operation
of the enterprise.
The program will represent a new approach to development of
the private sector in Guinea. Until now, efforts to promote the
private sector have been focussed on the privatization of state-
owned enterprises, the strengthening of the technical capacity of
key ministries, and the establishment of lines of credit for
certain groups of enterprises. In view of the inadequacy of this
approach, the strategy proposed by means of this program will be
to create a more favorable business environment, preparing the
ground for other activities providing direct support to the
private sector to be launched in the future.



- 53 -
IIl. IMPROVEMENT OF THE INCENTIVE AND INSTITUTIONAL ENVIRONMENT
OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
The Government's liberal economic policy consists of freeing
the economy from State control and intervention in order to allow
expansion of private sector incertives to increase investment and
production. Given the progress made in the implementation of the
administrative reform program's policies to improve public
finances and to considerably reduce the number of civil servants,
and given also the considerable state divestiture from the
industrial and commercial sectors, the balance of the recovery
program and the viability of the Government's development
strategy lies in the rehabilitation of private sector activities.
The liberalization in political and economic matters has
already resulted in the creation of the bases for an environment
favorable to private initiative. However, the Government is
aware that many obstacles continue to block the full development
of the private sector, in spite of the encouraging results noted
particularly in agriculture and in the informal sector. For this
reason, within the framework of the next phase of its recovery
program the Government will emphasize promotion of the private
sector, aimed in particular ats (i) eliminating the major
obstacles which put a brake on the vitality of thc private
sector; (ii) encouraging private economic operators to increase
production; (iii) creating proper services for assistance to and
promotion of private investment, and finally; (iv) directing
investors to the productive sectors. The Government intends to
achieve these objectives, within the framework of the structural
adjustment program for the promotion of the private sector, by
means of:  (a) the clarification and simplification of the legal
framework of the private enterprise, the rationalization of
institutions promoting the private sector, and the reform of the
economic incentives structure; and (b) the implementation of a
series of support measures aimed at giving new impetus to private
investment.
A.   Rationalization of the Legal and Institutional Framework
In order to provide enterprises with a legal and regulatory
framework, the Government has already adopted a new trade law, a
labor code, and a general chart of accounts for Guinea.
Application of the trade law and the labor code has resulted in
the introduction of complex procedures for technical permits and
for employment licenses required for the creation of enterprises
and for labor recruitment.
During the period 1990-1991, the Government intends to
prepare a national Constitution and will begin democratizing



- 54 -
Guinean political life with a view to creating a multi-party
system. This opening will constitute a major asset for reforms
and for the liberalization of the economy. Publication of the
Official Gazette started up again in January 1989, and the
Government has set up legal assistance to the Commission for
Economic and Financial Coordination, the Ministry of Economy and
Finances (MEF), the Ministry of Justice, and the Government
Secretariat General in order to begin an evaluation of
legislation in force and to strengthen the capacity of the public
administration to formulate economic and financial legislation
consistent with the general principals of the law, and with the
liberal economic policy adopted.
Within the framework of its private sector promotion
program, the Government has undertaken to implement fundamental
reforms of economic legislation in two areas, notably:
1.   The Simplification of Procedures for the Creation of
interprises and the Rationalization of Institutions
which Promote Private Investment
Some of the reasons for the stagnation of productive
investment in 1987-89 in the formal sector are related to
the complexity of the technical permit process, and to the
inadequacy and inefficiency of institutions which promote
private investment. The Government has decided to simplify
procedures for the creation of enterprises, to redefine the
role of promotional institutions (CNPIP, ONPPME, BARAF), and
to improve their operation.
a)   The Center for the Registration of Enterprises
Simplicity is indispensable as far as the creation of
enterprises is concerned. On 26 June 1989 the Government
had already announced its decision to eliminate the
technical permit process for commercial, industrial and
service enterprises, with the exception of regulated liberal
professions and financial institutions. Accordingly, an
order including the elimination of commercial permits and
the creation of a center for the registration of enterprises
was adopted and published in April 1990. Under the terms of
this order, "any individual or legal entity is free to
undertake any commercial or industrial activity in the
Republic of Guinea, on the condition that it be declared to
the center for the registration of enterprises'. The center
was set up at the registry of the court ("tribunal de
premiere instance') where the trade register already exists.
Only one declaration need be completed, and in only one
place, for enterprises to comply with all declaration
formalities formerly carried out separately at different
agencies (the trade register, tax administration, the
factory inspectorate, the National Office for the Labor



- 55 -
Force, the Social Security Fund, the Ministry of Commerce).
The registry of the court will require material and human
resources in order to establish this center for the -
registration of enterprises. The Government will carry out
a rapid study of resources requirements and will consult
donors to obtain financing.
b)   Promotional Institutions
In order to improve the institutional environment and
to adapt it to the demands of growth in private investment,
the Government has undertaken, within the framework of the
private sector promotion program, to set up a rational and
efficient structure for the promotion of private investment.
To this end, it intends to: change the objectives of the
CNPIP, reorienting it towards preparation of a guide for
investors and welcoming foreign investors to Guinea; and
transform the ONPPME to a center for the creation and
development of enterprises, in order to ensure promotion of
small and medium-sized Guinean enterprises.
(i) The Role of the CNPIP: Welcoming Foreign Investors
and the Investors' Guide
The Government has decided to give the CNPIP
responsibility for the promotion of Guinea abroad and
for welcoming private foreign investors to Guinea.
Since major constraints continue to hamper the
development of foreign investment (weak infrastructure
and the resistance of certain civil servants),
initially the function of promoting Guinea abroad will
not be stressed. The CNPIP, which comes under the
control of the Ministry for Planning and International
Cooperation, is to concentrate on welcoming foreign
investors who will be arriving in Guinea. It will
assist them to complete the formalities for the
creation of an enterprise at the Center for the
Registration of Enterprises and in the preparation and
monitoring of Investment Code permits. The CNPIP will
thus be the only channel through which foreign
investors must pass to complete the necessary
formalities. It will also be responsible for preparing
a guide for those interested in investing in the
Republic of Guinea.
The investor's guide -- a booklet containing the data
and documentation that will be needed by the private
developer -- will be prepared and edited before the end
of 1990. It will summarize conditions for the setting
up of enterprises in Guinea, point out the principal
fiscal provisions of the Investment Code, provide data
relative to the factor costs, list the economic



- 56 -
activities for which Guinea has a comparative
advantage, and supply information on the availability
of inputs and on the outlets for finished products.
The investor's guide will contribute simultaneously to
improving the welcome and the information provided for
both national and foreign investors. The Government
will request assistance from donors to publish the
guide and make it available throughout Guinea and to
diplomatic missions.
(ii) The Role of the CCDE: Assistance to Small and
Medium-sized Guinean Enterprises
In order to support the development and modernization
of Guinean enterprises, the Government intends to
change the ONPPME into a CCDE. The CCDE, a small
promotional structure for promotion of Guinean SMEs,
will employ a small number of professionals with good
experience in the private sector, and will be under the
control of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and
Handicrafts (MICA - le Ministere de l'Industrie, du
Commerce et de l'Artisanat). It will be managed by a
board of directors composed of representatives from the
private sector and the principal economic ministries
(MEF, MPCI, MICA, BCRG).
The goal of the CCDE will be to provide support to
Guinean developers, in particular for project
identification, development and monitoring. With
regard to the provision of services for project
analysis (technical and financial feasibility studies),
the Government will encourage the setting up of private
consulting companies specializing in the auditing of
accounts, legal consultation and advice on management
and organization. It will also encourage the setting
up of private structures for the promotion of private
investment. In this respect the CCDE will direct
developers needing them to these private consulting
companies. The Government will ask that donors provide
the technical and financial assistance required to set
up a study fund to cover a part of the costs for
services provided to developers by the private
consulting companies.
The CCDE will also assist new Guinean SMEs (PME) with
the formalities involved in the creation of enterprises
and the constitution of Investment Code permit files.
As will be the case for the CNPIP with regard to
foreign investors, the CCDE will be the only channel
through which Guinean developers will have to pass to
complete the necessary formalities.



- 57 -
As of 31 December 1990, BARAP will have redeployed all
former civil servants. This being the case, the
Government intends closing down BARAF as of 1st January
1991 and reassigning its staff to the CCDE with the
particular task of monitoring projects created within
the framework of assistance in redeploying civil
servants.
2.   Liberalization of Labor Legislation
The Government is aware that obligations imposed on
employers when staff are recruited or dismissed constitute
constraints on the development of private enterprises. For
this reason, it has undertaken to clarify the provisions of
the Labor Code and to liberalize recruitment procedures.
With assistance from the International Labour
Organization and the World Bank, the Government has already
prepared draft orders for application of the Labor Code with
the goal of eliminating any possible misinterpretation of
the provisions of the Code. This would permit the Code to
be implemented without frequent intervention by the
department of labor and employment. These draft orders will
be adopted before the end of May 1990.
In respect to the liberalization of recruitment
procedures, the Government will modify the role of the ONEMO
which will no longer be an obligatory chan;.el for staff
recruitment. The ONEMO will become a sim;le labor and
employment statistics office, and enterprises will be free
to choose their staff directly, without prior authorization
from the administration. A regulation to this effect which
will modify the Labor Code with regard to the role of the
ONEMO will be adopted and published by the end of June 1990
at the latest, and two important orders relating,
respectively, to organization of the ONEMO and of the Labor
Inspectorate, will be adopted before the end of the year.
In order to carry out their new tasks as efficiently as
possible, the ONEMO and the Labor Inspectorate will require
the appropriate human and material (in particular, data
processing) resources. The Government has requested the
technical and financial assistance of the World Bank and of
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) to strengthen
the ONEMO and the Labor Inspectorate and to organize
training programs for inspectors, auditors and labor and
employment statisticians.
The Government will also organize a national seminar on
labor law for representatives of the administration,
economic operators and trade unions, to provide information
on the application of the Labor Code and the new functions



- 58 -
of the ONEMO and the Labor Inspectorate.
Other reforms are being undertaken by the Government
within the legal and institutional framework, in particular
reform of legislation with regard to real estate and to
guarantees (mortgages, securities, pledges), and actions to
improve legal services. These reforms are presented in
Section IV, relating to strengthening the performance of
the financial sector.
More generally, rationalization of the legal and
institutional framework is necessary, but it is not
sufficient if private sector activities are to be given new
impetus. Such rationalization must be accompanied by strong
measures in the administration of the economic incentive
framework.
B.   Reform of the Economic Incentive Framework
Major distortions are emerging in the Guinean economy which
impede the recovery of the formal productive sector owing, first,
to the weakness of the customs department which does not
adequately serve the interests of the national economy, and
second, to the granting of special exemptions by means of
uncoordinated ad hoc agreements or decisions which are a complete
departure from the provisions of the Investment Code, adopted in
1987. The Government is resolved to put a halt to this situation
which is detrimental to economic development and to the proper
execution of the economic and financial recovery program. Within
the framework of its private sector promotion activities, it has
undertaken to rationalize and reinforce customs protection, to
reorganize tax administration, and to improve application of the
Investment Code.
1.   Rationalization and Reinforcement of Customs Protection
The aim of the Government's plan of action with regard
to customs is to revise the tariff schedule -- one of the
lowest in Africa, to organize procedures, and to reinforce
the customs services.
a)   Revision of the Tariff Schedule
The Government has already begun to implement its
program for the revision of the tariff schedule: it
has increased customs duties on imports from 3 percent
to 7 percent of the CIF value, and import taxes from 7
percent to 8 percent dating from 1st March 1990. At
the same time the Government has applied a 10 percent
sales tax on imported rice.



- 59 -
The Government is also proposing to apply customs
duties to rice imports, by the end of May 1990 at the
latest, to ensure adequate protection for local
production of this commodity for which Guinea has a
comparative advantage and export potential, and which
employs 80 percent of the labor force. It will also
carry out a comprehensive study on the effective
protection of the Guinean economy and adopt a far-
reaching reform of the tariff schedule, by the erd of
October 1990 at the latest, in order to ensure adequate
tariff protection to the principal productive sectors.
Finally, the Government has decided to eliminate
customs duties on exports which penalize the Guinean
economy.
b)   Organization of Customs Procedures
With regard to procedures, the Government has already
introduced an obligatory written declaration for the
clearance of merchandise arriving by land since the
beginning of 1989, and intends to install forwarding
agents at borders in order to expedite customs
declarations. It has also prepared a draft Customs
Code which it will adopt before the end of 1990 with a
view to improving administrative procedures.
Within the framework of the new contract for import
monitoring for which an invitation to bid was sent out
in January, and which it hopes to approve in May 1990,
the Government plans to develop a second method for
evaluating the customs value of merchandise imported
into Guinea. While awaiting the implementation of this
contract, it has already substantially upwardly revised
the scale of valuation for tax purposes beginning on
1st March 1990, in order to increase the collection of
customs duties and taxes and the protection of domestic
production.
In November 1989, the Government also set up a unit for
the monitoring and evaluation of customs duty
exemptions. This unit is responsible, in particular,
for the monitoring the period of exemption, for lists
of eligible products, and for the quantities and values
determined by the agreements. Now that a new customs
tariff schedule has been decided, it will also study
proposed exemptions from the general customs system not
related to the application of Investment Code
provisions. In this respect, it will put a stop to ad
hoc exemptions granted to enterprises without any legal
basis and undertake, where necessary, only exemptions
by tariff items in conformity with the general rules.



- 60 -
Finally, the Government is going to computerize customs
procedures and introduce the SYDONIA (systeme douanier
informatise - computerized customs system) project into
the procedures for declarations and assessments.
C)   Reinforcement of the Customs Service
Reinforcement of the customs service is one of the most
fundamental elements of the Government's program. A
short- and medium-term plan of action was prepared
following a national customs conference organized by
the Ministry of Economy and Finances in January 1990.
As well as revision of the tariff schedule and
improvement of customs procedures, as mentioned above,
this plan of action includes the setting up of an anti-
fraud plan, the improvement of staff working conditions
and the strengthening of the management of the
services.
With regard to the anti-iraud plan, new procedures will
be introduced at the port of Conakry as from April
1990. The Conakry port authority and the maritime
brigade will receive more staff, and material and human
resources. On the same date the national and regional
mobile brigades will become operational with the
support included in the framework of PAGEN (le prolet
dvassistance technique a la gestion de l'economie
nationale), the project for technical assistance with
management of the national economy, financed in
particular by the World Bank and the Central Treasury.
The support will include the training of agents,
equipment, and resident :echnical assistance. Finally,
a division for the monit)ring of duty assessments will
be created within the Directorate-General to revise, on
the basis of relevant documentation, customs
declarations and duty assessments made by the customs
offices.
To improve staff working conditions, a training program
has been set up within the framework of the PAGEN for
customs inspectors, heads of services and their
assistants. In addition to this, a study on profit
sharing by customs staff will be prepared with a view
to providing the service with sufficient motivation to
increase revenue and to combat fraud. Finally, a
program for renovating the buildings in which customs
are housed and for equipping the service has been
prepared and submitted to the donors.
With regard to the management of the service, a new
directorate-general was selected in October 1989 and 25
inspectors-general of finances from the Ministry have



- 61 -
been seconded to reinforce customs staff. Finally,
three technical assistants financed by the FAC (Fonds
d'Aide et de Cooperation) within the framework of the
PAGEN have been installed at the Directorate-general to
assist in improving the current administration of the
customs service. The team of technical assistants will
reexamine the draft Customs Code and propose a plan to
reinforce and restructure the customs service, as well
as a program for the training and recycling of agents.
It will also organize the setting up of a computerized
system for assessments and for customs statistics,
coordinate the activities of the mobile brigades, and
set up a reliable system for determining the customs
value of merchandise.
2.   Reinforcement of Tax Administration
Like the customs services, tax administration is
inadequate. The Government will make a synthesis of
available studies on the Guinean tax system and organize a
national seminar on tax services before June 1990, with a
view to defining a plan of action for the reinforcement of
tax administration. It will adopt a new general code for
tax administration and a new registration and stamp code,
drafts of which have been prepared in cooperation with the
International Monetary Fund. Lastly, with the support of
the PAGEN the Government will set up a training program for
about tw3nty tax inspectors.
3.   Clarification of the Investment Code and Improvement
of Procedures for the Granting of Tax Incentives to
Investors
a)   The Investment Code
In spite of certain imperfections, the Investment Code
adopted in January 1987 is an appropriate incentive
framework for private developers, and will henceforth
serve as the unique point of reference for the granting
of tax or customs exemptions in Guinea. Under these
conditions, no sectoral code may include exemptions
with financial implications for the State budget.
However, the Government is aware that some of the
provisions of the Investment Code are either unclear or
incomplete, in particular with regard to eligibility
criteria and establishment agreements. With this in
mind, an order regarding the Investment Code will be
prepared and adopted before the end of June 1990 which
will specify that the National Investment Committee
(CNI) should examine all the fiscal and customs
incentives granted to investors before they are



- 62 -
approved, modify the signatories of decrees granting
the benefit of an Investment Code exemption, and
broaden the scope of the PME-PHI system regardless of
nationality. In addition, a decree concerning the
composition of the CNI will be adopted, as well as a
decree establishing the borders of zone 2 of the
Investment Code and a decree specifying the provisions
of ax.icle 14-2 of the Investment Code relating to the
concept of valued added.
b)   The National Investment Committee (CNI)
The Government wishes to reinforce the CNI and to make
it responsible for making sure that the Investment Code
is applied. The CNI will be the sole body competent to
examine the specific fiscal and customs advantages
granted to private developers. As from June 1990 it
will consist of the following seven permanent members:
the Minister of Planning and International Cooperation
or his representative (President), the National
Director of Planning (MPCI), the National Directorate
of the Budget (MEF), the National Director of Customs
(MEF), the National Director of Taxes (MEF), the
National Director of Industrial Development (MICA), and
a representative of the Governor of the Central Bank
(BCRG); as well as non-permanent members representing
the technical ministries concerned with the dossier on
the agenda.
It is also necessary to reinforce the secretariat-
general of the CNI, situated at the Ministry of
Planning, by providing material and human resources and
technical assistance. To this end, the Government will
present a request to the World Bank and to the
bilateral donors. Lastly, dossiers, procedures and
methods for the handling of dossiers by the CNI must be
simplified, and the secretariat-general must be
computerized. Technical assistance could help in this
area.
c)   Establishment Agreements
The Government has decided that all specific fiscal and
customs incentives should be examined by the CNI,
including establishment agreements. To be valid, such
establishment agreements must pass through the hands of
the CNI and be signed by the supervisory ministry, the
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation, the
President of the CNI and the Ministry of Economic and
Finances. This being the case, it is not necessary to
ratify these agreements by order, but they must be
ratified by a decree published in the Official Gazette.



- 63 -
C.   Principal Supporting Measures
The Government is convinced that rationalization of the
legal and institutional framework for the protection of private
investments and the reform of the structure of economic
incentives which it is now carrying out will result in improving
the life of the private enterprise and in ensuring the
development of the private sector in accordance with the
objectives of the recovery program. However, it is ready to
undertake any supporting measures which are likely to create a
more favorable environment for expansion of the productive
sector. With this in mind, the Government intends to encourage
economic operators to organize themselves, to reduce and
eventually eliminate administrative annoyances of all kinds, and
to promote domestic production.
The Government will encourage the improvement and
organization of economic operators, in particular the Chamber of
Commerce, Industry and Agriculture, and the constitution of
professional employers' federations. It will also pursue the
dialogue opened between the authorities, economic operators and
bankers, with a view to finding a concerted approach to problems
encountered, and to constantly improve the investment climate in
Guinea.
With regard to administrative problems, the Government will
combat any unjustified intervention on the part of the
administration in the operation of enterprises by setting up an
appropriate system of positive and negative sanctions. It will
also simplify procedures for granting entry visas to Guinea, in
particular for investors, and improve the reception offered at
the Conakry airport.
As concerns the promotion of the productive sector, the
Government will continue to emphasize the continued
rehabilitation of the basic economic infrastructure (roads,
energy, town planning, water supply, telecommunications) and of
community facilities in the implementation of the public
investment program, and will undertake a program for the
development of human resources (education, health and
professional training) in order to improve the physical and human
framework in which the private sector operates. It will continue
its policy of divestiture in the productive sectors in order to
cede its place to development of the private sector which it
would like to see oriented towards agricultural production,
industry, construction and public works, and small and medium-
sized enterprises which create employment. For the recovery of
the rural sector, more particularly, the Government has
undertaken the preparation of a sectoral project for promotion of
agricultural exports with the technical and financial assistance
of the World Bank.



- 64 -
IV. REINFORCEMENT OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
The starting point for the broad structural reforms of the
Guinean economy was the liquidation at the end of 1985 of nearly
the entire banking system as it stood at that time. After four
years of operation, the new financial and banking system is
showing positive resultss from December 1986 to December 1989,
deposits to the banking system increased from GF 8 billion to GF
35 billion. During the same period and parallel to the closing
of State-owned enterprises and to improved management of public
finances, the amount of credit granted to the private sector
increased strongly, from GF 11.4 billion (30.6 percent of
internal credit) to GF 42.3 billion (63 percenc). In addition to
this, the fact that the private sector benefizs both from the
usual banking services, and from ready access to foreign currency
by means of the auction system set up by the BCRG, represents
remarkable progress compared with previous years.
In spite of these results, the performance of the banking
system is inadequate. In effects (i) almost all credit granted
is short-term and finances operations for the import of current
consumer goods; medium-term financing of private sector
investments has stagnated at a low level; (ii) the banking system
shows an extremely high (over 60 percent) non-payment rate.
Provisioning for bad debts and the banks' high operational costs
make it necessary for the banks to apply extremely high margins.
These high costs for banking services certainly constitute a
major obstacle to the greater utilization of banks in the
economy; (iii) the economy's liquidity rate remained stable at
5.4 percent from 1987 to 1989, which demonstrates the low degree
of monetization of the economy. In spite of regular progress in
deposits, at the end of 1989 these constituted only one third of
the money supply.
A lack of confidence on the part of the public vis-&-vis the
banking system, brought about by frequent changes in monetary
symbol (in 1960, 1963, 1972, 1978 and 1986) and the closure of
nearly all banks in December 1985, has not yet been fully
overcome. On the contrary, operators complain of the
inaccessibility of bank financing and of its exorbitant cost,
while the banks blame the high level of unpaid debts and the
absence of real guarantees. The monetary authorities are
determined to re-establish a dialogue, improve the mobilization
of financial savings, encourage credit to the productive sectors,
and reinforce the supervision of the banking system in order to
make the process of financial intermediation more efficient.
1.   The Mobilization of Financial SavinRs
One of the principal objectives of the reform is to



- 65 -
encourage the formation and mobilization of private sector
savings, a necessary condition for the healthy financing of
economic growth. In spite of the high level of inflation
following the strong devaluation of the national currency
and the liberalization of prices which had been artificially
depressed for many years, the authorities have progressively
increased the rate of return to depositors in order to
gradually reach the objective of positive real interest
rates on deposits. In this way returns on time deposits
have progressively increased from 0 percent in January 1986
to 21 percent in January 1989. The diversification of
financial instruments is encouraged by the authorities. In
February 1990, returns on savings accounts and on fixed
deposits increased to 16 percent. This policy is beginning
to have positive effects: at the end of 1989 term deposits,
previously negligible, reached GF 14.3 billion, or 40
percent of bank deposits.
The war on inflation has become a principal objective
of the 1990 macroeconomic program so as to help restore the
credibility of the currency. In effect, the economy's low
liquidity rate would seem to indicate that operators are
saving in foreign currency and in non-monetary assets. In
order to encourage banks to attract household savings, the
monetary market rate for banks was increased to 24 percent
while the non-banking monetary market rate is not fixed.
The differential between refinancing rates at the BCRG and
the rates of return to depositors continues to increase in
order to cover the cost of attracting household savings in
both urban and rural areas.
During the three first years of the reform, large
amounts of free liquid assets in the form of deposits by
public enterprises were available to banks. The transfer of
accounts of some of these entities to the Central Bank in
1989, and the liquidation or privatization of a large number
of enterprises, encouraged the banks to make an extra effort
to attract clients.
The drying up of excess liquidity in the banking system
is necessary if the instruments of monetary policy are to be
effective. Therefore the Central Bank will soon introduce a
policy of obligatory reserves with a based on short-term
credits or demand deposits.
The decentralization and expansion of the network of
financial intermediaries should be pursued. The authorities
will encourage the establishment of those intermediaries
with low costs for attracting savings. Current experiences
with agricultural credit and with mutual credit in mid-
Guinea will be extended to other areas of the country.
Likewise, the establishment of a people's bank will be



- 66 -
encouraged. The aim of 3bankerizing' the economy can only
be achieved if the financial institutions come into contact
with savers in the heart of the country. Appropriate
studies have been undertaken to this end.
Whatever the incentives to attract savings may be, they
will only be productive if the financial intermediaries have
medium- and long-term uses for these additional resources.
For this reason the authorities are endeavouring to remove
institutional and legal obstacles to the granting of medium-
and long-term credit.
2.   Credit Policv
The dialogue recently initiated by the authorities
between the economic operators and the banks has identified
the reasons for the credit lethargy, particularly as regards
investment credit. They are: (i) the high risk associated
with credit, in particular medium-term credit where the non-
payment rate in the last quarter of 1989 reached more than
60 percent; (ii) the absence of real guarantees (land
security, mortgages, and publication of land title
documents); and (iii) a legal and judicial environment
unfavorable to the recovery of bank debts.
With regard to cases of non payment, the authorities
are aware that these constitute the principal cause of the
extremely cautious attitude of banks and are a serious
threat to recovery of the national economy. The authorities
are undertaking a campaign of information and of
sensitization of operation to the necessity to respect
repayment deadlines for credits. Other complementary
actions will be taken within the framework of the
promotional institutions, notably assistance with the
preparation of studies of a standard acceptable to banks, a
stricter appraisal process, and reinforcement of training,
management and supervision.
The absence or lack of effectiveness of the classic
guarantees is certainly the major cause of inertia on the
part of banks. The draft Land Code currently being
discussed should result in a recognition of real and
unassailable rights with regard to built-up land. With the
establishment of the land registry, banks should soon have
at their disposal the legal bases for mortgages.
However, the original short-term solutions should be
explored. The authorities are proposing the reorganization
of the current guarantee system by the establishment of
mutual guarantee companies and of a support fund.
It may be possible to set up a guarantee system which



- 67 -
would eliminate present inadequacies, based on a regrouping
of operators by trade, branch or sector, with a view to
sharing credit-related risks. The guarantee for members of
such a group would comprise the setting up of a guarantee
fund financed by members' fees, a contribution to the fund
of a percentage of the credit granted, and a grant from the
State budget and/or external financing from donors. This
system, which already exists for small-scale fishing, could
be expanded to other activities following a feasibility
study.
The present "guarantee fund" system, which covers risks
up to 80 percent, is limited since it does not cover credit
granted on the CCCE/PME-PMI line of credit, including BARAF
dossiers. In addition, it suffers from: an absence of
permanent structure and of legal status, with resulting
delays in dealing with proposals; the incapacity to sue and
be sued; and the absence of a means of recovering debts from
developers in default. This lack of strong measures leads
to a perverse effect of imitation of bad creditors, and
thereby accentuates the risk of non payment.
To correct flaws in the present system, the "Support
Fund for Credit and for the Management of the PME/PMI' will
have legal status ("public company') and its task will be to
provide guarantees to banks for members of affiliated mutual
associations, and some investments not belonging to mutual
associations. Capital funds will derive from banks, private
interests, mutual guarantee societies, the Government,
restitution from credit granted and/or external donors. It
will be managed by a small group headed by an autonomous
board of directors and a 'guarantee committee'.
So as not to remove all responsibility from banks, the
Fund will guarantee only a reasonable amount of the risk and
will be involved only with dossiers already selected by the
banks. It could serve as correspondent or middle-man for
external guarantee bodies covering foreign investments. In
addition, the Fund would manage a 'Special Study Fund' to
help the national developer finance studies to be carried
out by private consulting firms. To be really effective,
this fund should benefit from treasury privileges with
regard to recovery from defaulting debtors.
The authorities will encourage the setting up of
privately managed bonded warehouses for third parties,
capable of receiving merchandise for import and export, not
only in Conakry but elsewhere in the country.
The authorities have undertaken an evaluation of the
policy of external lines of credit. The goal of this policy
is to provide for the financing of productive activities



- 68 -
without weighing heavily on the balance of payments. These
activities have different impacts according to their
criteria for eligibility, financial conditions and
refinancing procedures. The CCCE line has been the one the
most used by BARAF and the other developers since it was
less rigid and offered better financial conditions. The IDA
line, on the other hand, was abandoned by developers because
they were obliged to carry the foreign exchange risk, which
was extremely high during this perlod of inflation and
adjustment of exchange rates. In addition, the BCRG
encountered insurmountable refinancing problemb using this
line. Consultations between the amthorities and the
different donors should improve this policy and lead to a
certain harmonization.
As regards improvement of the legal and Judicial
environment, a study is being carried out to identify major
obstacles to credit activity and to suggest the appropriate
solutions. These could be centered on a plan for training
the legal professions in the banking and commercial areas,
and on a greater clarity in judicial decisions (minutes
written up by the bailiffs), in order to constitute
jurisprudence. These actions would be supported by
technical assistance and an improverent in material work
conditions (premises, equipment, libraries, etc.). To be
really effective, the plan should cover auxiliary personnel
of the justice system (bailiffs and the police force) to
achieve a better application of judicial decisions.
Recent discussions between the banks and the Ministry
of Justice provided an occasion to make known the existence
of legislation on negotiable instruments (checks, promissory
notes, bills of exchange) and on securities such as
commercial pledges in general, collateral and the sale of
stock in trade, and liens on tools and equipment. However,
there are no laws regarding conservatory mortgages,
conservatory seizure, collateral and securities on vehicles.
The authorities will compile groups of existing laws for
publication, and prepare additional legislation where there
is a need.
3.   Supervision of the BCRG
One of the fundamental requirements for the good
performance of financial intermediaries is effective
supervision by the Central Bank. During the first three
years of the reform, the BCRG was to undertake and complete
its own restructuring while at the same time implementing
exchange and interest rate policies within the framework of
structural adjustment.



- 69 -
Today the BCRG intends to give priority to the
consolidation and effectiveness of the banking system. In
this field specifically, within the framework of the PAGEN
program, the Central Bank receives technical assistance
which should shortly be operational. The BCRG is now
preparing a group of prudential measures aimed as ensuring
that the activity of the banks does not result in any risk
to the public. This concern will need to be translated into
the implementation of creditworthiness, financial stability
and liquidity ratios. Application of these measures will
call for a strengthening of the control and supervisory
capacity of the Central Bank. It will publish terms and
conditions applied by banks and will create a central
information system on delinquent borrowers and centralized
balance sheet data. These operations will be supported not
only by technical assistance but also by an active training
policy.



- 70 -
ANM   1
OUTLINE OF ACTIONS FOR TEE REORGANIZATION AND STRBNGTEENING
OF CUSTOMS AIKINISTRATION
I.          ACTIONS ALREADY UNDERTAKEN
-     Five percent tariff increase (Executive Order No. OO9/PRG/SGG/90),
effective as of February 26, 1990.
-     Significant changes in relative price lists following Ministerial
Order No. 584/MEF/CABI90 of February 27, 1990.
-     Use of written entry statements at all Customs clearance offices,
as of April 1, 1990.
Unit responsible for monitoring and authorizing exemptions set up
as part of the National Directorate of Customs in November 1989.
- -=Training of 25 Treasury inspectors assigned to the National
Directorate of Customs.
-     Seminar for heads of clearance offices and their deputies on
correct use of the written entry statement.
-     Careful deployment of personnel to eliminate weak border points.
II. ACTIONS IN PROGRESS OR TO BE UNDERTAKEN
Draft version of Customs Code prepared and pending approval.
Thorough review -- already well-advanced and scheduled for
completion before the end of 1990 -- of the Customs Tariff, in
order to make it the chief means of protecting productive
investment.
Rationalization of Customs clearance procedures at the port and
airport of Conakry (a study conducted under present technical
arrangements is nearing completion).
Retraining for all personnel, according to schedules designed to
avoid disruption of normal services.
Customs inspectors receiving training at the Ecoles nationales des
douanes in France and Morocco.



- 71 -
IIT.        OTHER ACTIONS TO BE UNDERTAREN SUBJECT TO AVAILABILITY OF EXTERNAL
FINANCING
Strengthening of the anti-fraud apparatus -- a matter of providing
suitable equipment (vehicles, motor cycles, means of
communication, radio, etc.) for the mobile brigades (national and
regional), whose threefold purpose in the area of fraud prevention
is:
(i)   dissuasion, so that importers and exporters will be led to
comply with the Customs regulations in force;
(ii) policing, through inspection, seizure of goods moved
fraudulently, and levying of fines;
(iii) economic protection and fostering of productive investments
the Customs authorities protect local industries by
preventing the clandestine import of competing products from
abroad.
Rehabilitation of administrative buildings so as to improve
working conditions.
Execution of the SYNDONIA computerization project.
Applications to international financial institutions for training
grants.



-  72  -                                        APPENDIX VII
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION CREDIT
STITUS OF 1AK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
(as of March 6, 1990)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations)
LCaf or    fiscal                                                                                       Undis-  Closing
Credit Nlo.   Year   Borrowfr                         Purpose                      Dank          IDA     bursed   Date
Credits
13 Credits(si closed                                                                           159.73
C12340-6U1  1982    GUINEA                            INDUSTRY REHAB (DFC)                     19.00       4.01  12/31/91(R)
C13410-6UI  1983    6UINEA                            EDUCATION 11                             11.00       4.61  12/31/89(R)
C14380-6UI  1984    GUINEA                            PETROLEUN EXPL.                           8.00         .33  06/30/900R)
C14570-WUI  1984    GUINEA                            H16HNAYS 11.                             28.00      14.30  09/30/90(R)
C14660-6U1  1984    GUINEA                            URBAN I & SWPPLEhENT                     10.70         .50  12/31/9O0R)
C15950-GUI  1985    6UINEA                            POIER ENGINEERING 11                      8.00       3.39  12/31/90
C1b350-8UI  1986    GUINEA                            GUECKEDOU AGRIC.DEVT                      6.60       1.15  06W30192
C16360-GUI  1986    GUINEA                            FIRST AG SERVICES                         7.50       3.68  06/30/92
C16370-BUI  1986    GuINEA                            MINERAL SECTOR h6hT                       3.90         .30  06130190
C14661-^UI  1987    6UINEA                            URBAN 1 I SUPPLEMENT                      4.50       3.21  12/31/90
C17250-6UI  1987    6UINEA                            LIVESTOCK SECTOR REM                      9.80       9.17  12/31/92
C18150-GUI  1987    GUINEA                            TRANS SECi                               55.00      49.69  06130/92
C18370-6U1  1988    GUINEA                            POPIHEALTH                               19.70      16.01  12131/93
C18640-GUI  1988    GUINEA                            AGRIC.SEEDS                               9.00       7.71  06/30/94
C19150-6U1  1988    6UINEA                            HIGHWAYS IV                              55.00      52.83  12/31193
C19260-6UI  1988    6UINEA                            SAL 11                                   65.00      35.13  12/31/90
C19550-6UI  1989    GUINEA                            RESEARCH EXTENSION                       18.40      17.91  12i31/94
C19630-6U1  1989    GUINEA                            SECOND ECN MST SUPPO                     14.50      12.82  06/30/94
C19850-6UI  1989    6UINEA                            WATER 11                                 40.00      36.74  10/31/96
C19950-6UI  1989    GUINEA                            SDA                                       9.00       9.13  12/31/94
I   C20680-6UI  1990    GUINEA                            FORESTRY & FISHERY N                      8.00       8.38  06!30/94
TOTAL number Credits 5   21                                                                     410.60     291.02
Loans
3 Loansts) closed                                                                 73.50
All closed  for      GUINEA
TOTAL number Loans z    0
TOTAL$IS                                                          73.50       570.33
of which repaid                                                 55.38         1.16
TOTAL held by Dank   IDA                                           18.12      569.17
Aoount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                        291.13
Notes:
I Not Yet effective
1S Not yet signed
111 Total Approved. Repaysents, and Outstanding balance represent Doth active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(RI indicates foraally revised Closing Date.
The Net Approved and Dank Repayments are historical ialue, all others are market value.
The Signing, Effective? and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Departeent offical data aqd are not taken
from the Task Budget file.



- 73 -
APPENDIX VIII
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION CREDIT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
Sectoral Documents
-    President's Report for the Second Structural Adjustment Program
(May 1988)
-    GUINEA Public Investment Review, 1986-91 (July 1989)
*    Policy Framework Paper (IMF/Bank - January 1990 Draft, currently
being updated)
-    Guinea - Impact of Structural Adjustment Reforms on the
Industrial Sector (January 1990 draft)
-    Statement of Sectoral Policy (Government - forthcoming)
Diagnostic Studies
-    GUINEA: FIAS Diagnostic Study of the Investment Climate (FIAS -
September 1988)
-    Etude sur le Cadre Incitatif (Development Finance Consultants -
December 1989)
-    Etude sur le Cadre Institutionnel de Promotion de
l'Investissement Prive en Guinee (Societe d'Etudes pour le
Developpement Economique et Social - October 1989)
-    The Guinean Financial System (Consultant Mr. Tenconi - February
1988)
-    Restructuring of the Banking System in Guinea (Mr. Tenconi -
November 1988)
-    La Reforme du Regime des Saret4s Bancaires en Guinee (Consultant
Mr. E. Wymeersch - April 1989)
-    Etude de Pre-faisabilite sur l'Etablissement de Magasins
G6n6raux en Guinee (Development Finance Consultants - September
1989)
-    Etude sur le Renforcement du Systeme Judiciaire en Guin4e
(Consultant Mr. B. Connen - forthcoming)



- 74 -
APPENDIX IX
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTION CREDIT
LIST OF PRIVATIZED FIRMS
I.   Currently Operating Firms
1.  BONAGUI S.A.                               Ord. #015/PRGtO9.07.87
2.  Briqueterie de Kankan                      Ord. #007/PRG/01.07.87
3.  SOBRAGUI S.A.                              Ord. #016/PRG/02.12.87
4.  SIPAG S.A.                                 Ord. #015/PRG/02.12.87
5.  Imprimerie Commerciale de Guinee           Ord. #014/PRG/02.12.87
6.  SIPAR Labe (SOPAG)                         Ord. #030/PRG/05.07.87
7.  USOA / Mamou                               Ord. #029/PRG/07.05.87
8.  SOMIAG S.A.                                Ord. #007/PRG/01.07.87
9.  Ciments de Guinee, S.A.                    Ord. #088/PRG/12.22.87
10.  ENTAG S.A.                                 Ord. #032/PRG/05.07.87
II. Firms Currently being Rehabilitated
1.  SOPRAG S.A. (Enta-Allu)                    Ord. #006/PRG/01.10.87
2.  COMODI (CMD)                               Ord. #020/PRG/03.10.87
3.  Conserverie Mamou (SAIG-MAMOU)             Ord. #086/PRG/03.10.87
III. Firms Suffering from Delayed Start-Up
1.  U0.A. I RHEEM GUINEA S.A.                  Ord. #126/12.13.86
2.  SOPEC Guinee S.A.                          Ord. #051/PRG/12.13.86
3.  SOGUIFAB S.A.                              Ord. #020/PRG/03.10.88
4.  Ardoisiere La.b                            Ord. #048-PRG/01.26.88
5.  Quinine Seredou                            Ord. #004/PRG/02.10.88
6.  Usine Jus de fruit de Kankan               Ord. #031/PRG/05.07.87
7.  Scierie N'Zerekore                         Ord. #035/PRG/89
8.  Usine de The Macenta                       Ord. #079/PRG/12.05.87
IV.  Recently Privatized Firms
1.  ENIPXARGUI                                 Ord. #048/PRG/10.12.88
2.  C.B. Foulaya Kindia                        Ord. #005/PRG/01.14.89
3.  C.T. Sanoyah                               Ord. #017/PRG/87/03.07.89
4.  SOGUIREP                                   Ord. #032/PRG/SGG/04.24.89
5.  SIPECO S.A.                                Ord. #040/PRG/SGG/89/06.14.89
Source:  DFC/Etude sur le cadre incitatif (Sept. 1989)



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA                                               APPENDIX X
PRIVATE SECTOR PROMOTIOIN CREDIT
STATUS OF MANUFACTURING STATE ENTERPRISES - DECEMBER 1988
A. PRIVATIZED ENTERPRISES
PAYMENT         CAPITAL STOCK AND        BOARD OF DIRECTORS                          SPECIAL
No.  NAE            ACTIVITY         STRUCTURE            OWNERSHIP            (Consel I d'Admin.)                       CONDITIONS
--     ---                     -----              -                        -------- --  - ---------------------------
1/
1   Ardoisienr
Labe
2.  BONAGI        soft drinks    not avrilable       -FG.1.2 billion                                   - S0X of shares reserved for Government
(Coca Cola)                       Foreign (70X)                                     and Guinean private interests.
Artois Overseas                                   If not taken up within two years
and Coca Cola                                     thes  will revert to the foreign
Export Co.with                                    shareholders;
S0X reserved for                                  - there is a limitation of 5 years on
Guinean nationals,                                the effort to attract local shareholding;
- the coop. has an 11 yr. monopoly on cola,
grapes, orange, lemon, and ginger based soft
drinks;
- competition's production limited, Sobrogul
to 20,00 hl./yr., Foulaya Kindia to 30,000
hi /yr;
- no registration fees for changes in
statutes or capital increases;
- complete freedom of import duty for all
materials related to renovation of the
factory;
- all raw mat. will suffer a max. duty of
5.6% of CIF for five years;
- no export levies;
- exemption of incooe tax on all goods and
services needed to bring plant on stream;
- Corporate income tax fixed at 35X; All
repair and maintenance expenses and all
interest on loans deductible (interest on
foreign loans fixed at LIBOR plus 5 points);
- Feas, studies on new plants and on local
supplies will be presented within 3 yrs;
- no tax on retained earnings;
3. Briquette-    brick making   10 equal yearly    OF. IN milIIIon                                     -et. Inv. FO 200 million;
rie de                       payments,          -El HaiJ SANO et Fils,                            - 8 year moratorium on divestiture;
Kankan                       beginning           1001 ;                                           - fully tax free fuel oil for 15 years;
12/31/1908                                                           - no tax on retained earnings for 16 years;
payment penalty                                                      - benefits under investment code;
14X int./yr;
Sales agree_nt not available.



APPENDIX X
PAYMENT         CAPITAL STOCK AND        BOARD OF DIRECTORS                          SPECIAL
No.  NAME            ACTIVITY        STRUCTURE            OWNERSHIP             (Conseil d'Ad.in.)                        CONDITIONS
4.  CIMENTS       clinker break-                     Foreign partner:                                  - the now company guarantees ci annual
DE GUINEE     ing and cement                     INVESTISSEMENTS                                   production capacity capabl, of  3eting
(ex SOPRO-    bagging                            CIMENTIERS                                        total domestic dsmand and to ui..urtake
CIMEV'                                           INTERNATIONAUX                                    what investment is needed to enoure this;
(Panama)                                         - the foreign partner guarantees sufficient
represented by:                                  working capital for the first two years of
CIMENT DSOBOURO                                  operation at a maximua Interest rate of 101;
BELGIUM                                          - government guarantees that the dividend tax
payable by non residents will not exceed 20X;
- the company will not be liable for a
minimum corporate tax during the first three
years of operation. ;
- no tax on retained esrnings;
- duty and tax exempt on Import. for
equipment, materials, and spares
needed for rehabilitation during first 9
months of operation;
- company will be subJoct to normal profits'
tax;
- Govt guarantes appropriate measures to
%0                                                                                                       enable Co. to be competitive with regards to
P,                                                                                                       any imported product from the day of
signature of the agreement, taking
account of the Co. a cost of production
and national economic policy;
- Gov't will assist exports and authorize
necessary import/export installations
wherever appropriate;
- Gov't. will give preference to Co. for
land acquisition in the port zono for
land development, transfer of its installations;
- Gov't. will give preference to Co. in
allocation of port and rail facilities;
S. ENTAG          cigarette       240 as gov"t       - FG.1.2 billion;       -4 mombers                - all assistance billod at cost;
(Entre-       manufactur     equity; l60         126,   shares           repreoonting             - SX of CIF cost as commission on all
prises des                   after 2 months;    Foreign (511)            category A shares        purchases;
Tabacs en                     penalty            Category A stock:       (foreign)                 - brand royalties at 6X of ex-factory prices;
Guinee)                       interest at        (a) CAITA (Comp.Agr.   -8 members                 - mx. 12 months for rehabilitation of plant
prevailing             et Ind. du Trbac    representing              at 1.8 billion OF;
rates for short        Africain)-French,  category B shares         - total est. investment first 10 yrs. 10
term borrowings;       84t;                (local)                   billion OF;
(b) Rothmans Intern.    -President Gulnean       - total marketing margin max. 20%
British, 17X ;      -Vice Pres. from         - production monopoly for 10 yrs.
Local (49%)             category A shares.       - tax free imports of equipment and spares for
Category B stock:       - COMITE de              10 yrs. ;



APPENDIX X
PAYMENT         CAPITAL STOCK AND         B04RD OF DIRECTORS                          SPECIAL
No.  NAME            ACTrVITY       STRUCTURE             OV4ERSHIP             (Consei I d'Admin.)                       CONDITIONS
--- ______                                                                                                   - -  --  - - - _-  _--_  -  ---___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___
ENTAG (Cont.)
(b) Ets. Satins, 11X;  constituted by            and raw material imports: DFE, DDE, TCA
(c) Mad.8angoura, 1% ; V.P. plus one board      - .xports duty fre.
(d) Soc. CODIS, SX ;   mGmber of each            - normal duties on own product imports except
(e) others, 3X ;        category A and B         TCA at 6.e8s for first five years;
- no free share         share$.                   consumption tax 10X for ten years thereafter
transfer, except                                  126X except for tobacco products manufactured
betwoen existing                                  by ENTAC under license surtax will be reduced
shareholders                                      to 48X for two years from license contract;
within the sa"e                                   - dutiable value of imports GF equivalent of
category; B to A                              I  US W0.23 per 20 with inflation adjustment
transfer needs                                I  formula;
government approval;                          I
- Comp. will have import handling monopoly for al cigarettes, with handling charge
of 2X of ex-custom value for 8 years subject to renewal;
- A special tobacco tax (TST) will be instituted, at 10 ex-factory, on Virginia
tobacco type products ('blonds") and at 104X of ex-custom value for imports.
Company reserves right to prove under-invoicing or dumping and a min. tax
is established if it is unable to do so;
- There will be a full tax and duty exemption on local tobaccos;
- The coop. will support local tobacco production within 12 months after contract signature;
, 
S .  L'IMPRI-         printing       casN  fter 16       OF 100 million                                    - equipment only;
UERlE de                     days; interest      Local (1o):                                       - inv. est. at OF 300 million;
Is                           penalty 11/yr.;   - government                                        - prohibited to rent or leas  facilities for
REPtJSLIQJE                                      - M. Toure                                        three years;
U. Camara                                        - government approval roquired for sales of
interests or shares for 6 years;
7.  JUS Df         fruit juice    Cash (a) GF11.1m.  Private Guinean                                    - min. investments of OF 288 i.;
FRUITS        bottling       as Sept. 1988;                                                        - Co.'s heavy fuel oil purchases to be exempt
de                           (b) OF 11.7m.                                                         from all Import duties and taxes;
KANKAN                       31 March 1989;                                                        - Co. exempt from TCA for 10 years;
- exempt from co-tax and all duties and taxes
on investments for three years;
S.   REEl-Gulnea   oxyoen/        half yearly         -GF 10 million                                    - total estimated investment GF 180 million;
(ex-UOA)      acetylene/     payments of OF                                                        - tech, esst, contract with LINDE-West Germany
butAn */C02    21 million,                                                          for two years;
beginning                                                            - 6 year moratorium on divestiture;
6/1/1966                                                             - gov't can inspect plant and books once a year;
payment
ponalties 10X
p.a.



APPENDIX X
PAYMENT         CAPITAL STOCK AND         BOARD OF DIRECTORS                          SPECIAL
No.   NAME           ACTIV IY        STRUCTURE            OPNERSiIIP            (Conseil d'Admin.)                        CONDITIONS
9.   SAIG Conser-  fruit pulp                         F 340,000                                         - investment of OF 1.8 million in 1987/88;
veris de                                         (a) Foreign SSX                                   - other investment OF 1.2 million
mamou                                            (b) Gov't. 10%
(c) Private Gulneans 3s5;
10. SEREDOU        production      - payable within   Group of private                                  - Co. to rehabilitate 260 he. during first
qUININE       and            O months of         Guinean investors                                 7 years;
(Company      processing     ratification ;                                                        - to extend plantation to 310 hne;
still         of QuMnine     - Penalty int.                                                         - partial rehabilitation of factory in first year;
to be         and related    2S5/year                                                              - restoration of agricultural *nd livestock
created)      products                                                                             production to ensure self-sufficiency by end
of second year and finance of working capital
by end of thIrd year;n
- to study, seek finance and rehabilitate quinine
factory before the sixth year;
- operating Co. to be credited within 90 days;
- to carry out the specified Investment program
(details not availoble);
- Gov't. to guarantee lease of land;
*                                                                                                          - tax free retoined earnings;
- exemption from duties and taxes on all investments
- exemption from minimum corporate tax;
11. SETCHEWA       production      Cash within two    Private Guinean                                    - to complet  investment of OF 854 million;
(Usino de     and            weeks of            investors                                         - to modernize system of packaging;
The de        processing      ratification                                                          - to sek technical assistanco for personnel training;
Macente)      of tea                                                                                - to extend plantation from 160 he. to 500 he.;
- Gov*t. to guarantee lease of all land;
- Co. to be eligible for benefits under Investment
Code; In particular, exemption from duties *nd
TCA on imports for investment within 12 months;
- tax exemption on retained earnings;
- tax exemption on exports;
12. SIFOSUI        Saw milling    acquisition         Information on           Information not           - expected new investment totaling 44 million
(ox SCIERIE   and wood       price               capital stock not       available                 French Francs;
de            processing     constitutes         avallable.                                         - LEDASON will nak, availabl, financing for
-   N ZEREO E)                    ovot. equity      Foreign partner Is a                               investments and working capital at an Interest
In ne   company    Swiss company                                      rate not exceeding 8X ;
called: LEBASON AG                                - the new company has obtained a temporary
BAREMLOCHi No. 2                                  logging permit for 64,000 ha. and has an
COIRA (Switzerland)                               obligation to undertake a reforestation
program on this same *of;
- the company can imoort, free of any taxes and
duties, all equipment needed during the two
years following stort o4 operations;
- *xports made by the company will not be
subject to any tax or duty;



PAYiENT         CAPITAL STOCK AND        BOARD OF DIRECTORS                           SPECIAL
NO.   NAME           ACTIVITY        STRUCtURE            OIVERSHIP            (Conseil d'Admin.)                         CONDITIONS
13 SIIoAR         Tiles           Cash within a      OF 2,620 million         Conseil d'Admints-
(SONACAG)                    month, of           Foreign 51X             tratlon
comencoment of      -French Co. SIGMAR:
operation;          51X of shares
interest penalty   Local gov't 205
1SX/yr.            SFI 9X If interested
14.  SIPAG         Biscuits/      GF 171. 6 million   - CF 350 million;        - Government entitled    - estimated investment 23 million Belgian francs;
(Soc.         candies        constitutes Gov't  3,500 shares             to one board member       - techn. sest. to be paid for at cost, with
Ind. de                      equity, to be       Foreign (61X):           as long as it retains    ceiling of 2.5X of turnover In any one year;
Produits                     deducted from       -NIBRA-Deigian, 51X    10X of shareholding        - as of the third year, 10X of local raw material
Alment,                      acquisition         Local (49%):                                       in biscuits and babyfood; up to 30X of year S
de Guinee)                    price at oxchange  (a) government lOX                                - Company sill support local production of
rate of the day;   (b) private  9                                    graIns, etc.;
rest cash payment  (shares held In                                   - duty free and TCA free, iports of
ponaltys 255       trust by government)                               international goods and ra materials for 1 yr.;
int./year                                                            - exports will be duty and tax free
- no tax on retained earnings
16. SIPECO/        point/          1.SM FF payable   OF 18 million                                      - ot. Inv. OF 76 million;
SOPIBA        pesticides      in cash: 480,000   Foreign: 49X                                      - French party will make available loan of OF
In FF; 1,020,000   Covernment: S15                                   300 million for working capitai etc. at max.
in OF equiv.;                                                        2 poiats over interbank intorest rate;
240,000 FF                                                           - there will be 205 of CIF surcharge on
payable In 6                                                          imported paints for 8 years, 10X in years 9
equal instatl Ints                                                    and 10.  This Is said to equal import duty on
of 240,000 FF                                                         paint raw materials;
31 Dec. '90, '91,                                                    - Coop. will have 5 yr. monopoly on paint prod.;
'92                                                                  - divestiture moraorWium for five years and
Government has right of first refusal;
- company subJect to profits tax at existing
rates only for 6 years;
- for 2 yers exempt from minimum flat rate co. tax
- no tax on retained earnings;
no tax/duties on exports;
- ov't. guarantees protection to enable
domestic product to be competitive with imports
and to mko appropriate *dj3utments to ensure
the competitiveness to firms themelves enjoy-
ing exemption from import taxes and dut!e;



PAYMENT         CAPITAL STOCK AND         BOARD OF DIRECTORS                          SPECIAL
No.  NAMiE           ACTIVITY        STRUCTURE             OWNERSHIP             (Conseil d'Admin.)                        CONDITIONS
18.  SO0RAQUI      brewery         cash, after          - OF 1.2 billion;      - government is en-       - comp. is allowed to produce up to 20,000
(Soc. de                     deduction of         12,000 shares,          titled to one board       hl./yr. of soft drinks, in spite of BONACUT s
Brasserie                     OF  08 million      Foreign (S1):           member, as long as        monopoly, but only in existing facilities,
de Guinee)                    at the exchange     - UNIBRA-Selgian;       its holding equals        except for cola-based drinks, which remain
rate of the day,      SIX                   or exceeds 12.52          forbidden;
comprising Gu;nean  Local (41f):                                      - prod. monopoly for SKOL brand; royalty ceiling
equity in the       (a) government 16X                                2.5% of ex-factory price. Full amount of
brewery. Interest  (b) private 342 (as                                royalty will be spent on promotion In first
penolty 15X/yr.     yet not taken up,                                 year, 75X in second year, and SOX In third;
shares held In trust                             - local content will be 362 as of yr. 3; 402
by the goverrnmnt)                               as of yr. 5;
- locally held shares                            - est. inv. SF 70 million;
not to be sold                                   - ceiling to cost of techn. osst. is 2.65  of
abroad for 8 years                               sales;
17. SOGIP          pharmcc u-      Cash within 90     OF 100 U - 1000 shares                             - Co. guarantees mini;un Investmept of GF 98 m.
EN~QIAROUI    tical           days; interest     Four private Guineans:                             to fund the techn;cal partpor within one year;
products       penalty 26X/yr.      603                                              - tax free and duty free Imports of equipment
Technical partner:                                and spares for rehabilitation and development
20X                                              of the factory, imported within 24 months of
rehabilitation;
- tax exemption on retained earnings;
- Co. will be exempt of all lport duties and
I                                                                                                            taxes on Intermediate goods, raw material,
pack:ging needs, and phormac:uticsl materials;
00                                                                                                            Co. exopt of TCA on production;
I  18.  SOCUIFAB       Aluminium                          SOCUIPI, KENEDE, and                               - Co. guarantees minimum Investment of OF 200 n.;
products                           other private                                     - Oov't. guarantees lease of property;
Guinean investors
19.  SOMZAG        stone quarry   38 threo monthly   OF 400 million;           -Consell d'Adein. of      - prohibited to tako anything else than products
(ex                          payments, linked   40,000 shares             7 membsrs;each 12.765    from the site before payment Ts made In full;
SONACAG)                      to prices ob-      Foreign (S11):           of shore  entitled to    - local monopoly within radius of 60 km. for
taned for pro-    -Audemars/EOCEC-          one member                two years;
ducts in previous  French: S1X                                        - Regime Fiscal B under 1984 Investment Code
three months,      -Local (492):                                      - current tox laws grandfathWred for 8 years;
starting 7/1/1987  (a) government 80o;                                - no tax on retained earnings;
(b) private 190 (as
yet not taken up,
shares held In
trust by Gov t.)



PAYbENT         CAPITAL STOCK AND        BOARD OF DIRECTORS                           SPECIAL
No. 4 NAME           ACTIVITY        STRUCTURE            OWNERSHIP            (Consell d'AdmIn.)                         CONDITIONS
20. SOPAG          essential       seven equal        -4F2S0 million;          - government entitled    - project claims triple advantage under
(Soc. des      oils           yearly payments,   25,000 shares            to one board member as   Investment Code, i.e.: (a) as exporters;
Pl*ntes       extraction      starting three     Foreign (S11):           long as it retains 10   (b) as processors of natural resources and
Aromatique.                  years after         -Cavallier-Grasse        of share capital          local raw materials; and (c) for being
de Cuinee,                    contract           and Mad. Hamide-                                   located in a less developed zone;
ex-SIPAR de                   signature;         Paris-French: 51                                  - French partner is disposed to lend to Comp.
LABE)                         interest 7X/yr.   Local (41):                                         at LIBOR plus a points;
over outstanding   (a) government 10$;                                - will attempt to create International brand
balance            (b) private  19X (as                               recognition for Guinean products, but wants
yet not taken up,                                 export monopoly in return;
shares held in trust                              - ownership cannot be transferred without
by government)                                    government approval;
20% paid In now, rest                             - tax free imports of copital equipment
within 2 yea  as                                  snd spares;
working capital                                   - tax fre  imports of Intermediate good.,
materials, and spares;
21.  SOPEC         manufacture    US *450,000         US 11.0 M. In 1000       Conseil d'Adminls-        - Co. will invest minimum of US t60 million over
00INEA        end import      capital contrib.   shares:                  tration.                  four years with a minimum of US 30.6 million
of             Gov't. In kind;    (a) Croupe Ashamou 451; Gov't. entitled to         before operations comence;
explosives,    US t660,000         (b) Parkhead Ltd. 10X;  one board member          - partners agree to provide financing for
Igniters,      cosh on Incor-      (c) Gov't. 451;         as long as It holds                 of Investments and provision of
4                       relatoed       poration within    - Gov't. may sell        101 of shsres             working capital at Interest of LIBOR plus
OD                      chemical       46 days of          part of its shares                                one point;
producta,      ratiftication      to private Cuinean                                 - Gov't. will arrange lease of lond;
hunting                            investors;                                        - partners will do  ill that Is necessary to
_emunition                                                                           *stisfy domestIc demand for explosives,
and rifles                                                                           chemil products, arm, atc.
- Cov't. will guaorntee a monopoly for 6 years;
- tax and duty exemption on Imports for
investment and rehabilitation;
- exemption from profits tax for 6 years;
- tax exemption on retoined earnings;
- tax and duty exemption on exports;
- exemption from duty on ill goods imported
for production and export;
- exemption from flat mln mum rae  of corporate
tax for 2 years;
- Oov't. will gursantee protective meaures to
ensure SOPEC products rmain competitive with imports;
- Co. will benefit under the 1167 Investment Code;



'4-            S E N E G  A L            I  
1-- . .    .........
G     U    I N     E    A    -  -i_._----* .
B I S S A Ui.i
._._ J-<-  *sv0L4}~~~~K*u
X, P    ,>, )Bok;       r.                                            "--'                                 ,           *29r->abo,  Dbola
__  "              /~~~~~~f Dubrka   ~                                   8                                                              .COTF
_  JV        J                                  *\                                                        J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D'I V  01 R E
o  40      a~op    120nL0MET6R                            GUIUiNEE                                                                              K
'  ,'  ',',  ,  , , ,   9. y      ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS                                                                          -    ).
0    2o 4    614  0S-                    DIVISIONS ADMINISTRATIVES                                                                         - 
r --Xs   MAURITANUW                               PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                   ..
!- .t-_-        -_.   J                   UMM EDELA PROVINCE              f-'Cud&ddo                               8be*
SBsGAL                                              PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES*               --*         .     *        
MAU                   -   UMITES DE LA PRFECTURE/'M77-t ........--a 
nEGAMa>~~~~:;>.;   ;,   r. /            413 ~~~~~CAPITAL                     N ,_,                *-                                   *=
GUINIEA                          OURV* NA               PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS              -               
BSSA5U I    UE          .    ./FASOt -            i    CHEF-UEU DE PROVINCE             r                                                     a        
a  2   ?-J w \ r-              .   ~~~~PREFECrURE HEADUARTERS*
iW IE                                       INTERNATIONAL-UEUNDARIES                L I B E R I A     7-          
LEO        COT E D'IVOIRE               FRONTlERESj                                                   yi*  
ir                                      ,r                                    N         r
MARtCH 1986



