      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      PFM CAPACITY BUILDING (P112713)



                                                                                                                   Report Number : ICRR0020087


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                              Project Name
 P112713                                                 PFM CAPACITY BUILDING

 Country                                                 Practice Area(Lead)
 Kyrgyz Republic                                         Governance



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                       Closing Date (Original)                                        Total Project Cost (USD)
  TF-95472                                               30-Jun-2013                                                                 7,491,433.00

  Bank Approval Date                                     Closing Date (Actual)
  16-Dec-2009                                            31-May-2015

                                                               IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                     Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                                        0.00                                                  4,555,957.20

  Revised Commitment                                                         0.00                                                  4,555,957.20

  Actual                                                                     0.00                                                  7,491,433.00




 Sector(s)
 Central government administration(100%)

 Theme(s)
 Public expenditure, financial management and procurement(100%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Jose M. Rodriguez Alvarez           Clay Wescott                         Lourdes N. Pagaran                   IEGEC (Unit 1)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
     The Trust Fund Grant Agreement between the Kyrgyz Republic and the International Development Association (World Bank) dated
    December 16, 2009 (Section 2.01 of the Annex, p.1) stated that the development objective for this Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) is “ to
    assist the Recipient in strengthening the effectiveness, efficiency and accountability of the Public Financial Management (PFM) through
    strengthening the budget process, the internal audit and control functions, and the institutional and human capacity of the Recipient’s Ministry
    of Finance (MOF) and that of other line Ministries of the Recipient”.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          PFM CAPACITY BUILDING (P112713)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components


          Original Components (as approved)
          The project included five components The appraisal estimate provided in the ICR, Annex 1, and used here, is the cost based on the
          full commitment approved in the August 10, 2010 amendment to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.

          Component 1. Strengthening the Budget Process, costing US$2.82m at appraisal, US$1.44m at completion, including:
          • Strengthening the legislative framework of PFM, including updating the rules and regulations for budget preparation and execution,
          and optimizing the work processes and procedures used;
          • Strengthening the relationship between Kyrgyz nationals and budget-related issues by supporting the process of systemic
          publication of budget information, public awareness of the budget process and the media’s literacy of budgetary issues.

          Component 2. Improvement of Medium-Term Budget Framework (MTBF), including in Line Ministries, costing US$0.97m at
          appraisal, US$1.07m at completion, including:
          • Improving the quality of macroeconomic forecasting in the medium term and appraising fiscal implications of macroeconomic
          developments.
          • Improving a credible link between the MTBF and annual budget preparation and execution.
          • Improving the costing of budgetary expenditure in line ministries.
          • Enhancing the link between realistic sector strategies and the budget process, including in line ministries.
          • Developing financial and non-financial sector performance indicators.

          Component 3. Internal Audit and Control, costing US$0.66m at appraisal, US$0.47m at completion, including:
          • Provision of goods, training and technical assistance to the MoF and line ministries to support the implementation of the Internal
          Audit Law, including the establishment of both an internal audit unit and a central harmonization unit, and building the capacity of
          these institutions.

          Component 4. Capacity Building in PFM, costing US$2.24m at appraisal, US$3.54m at completion, including:
          • Building management capacity within the MoF.
          • Enhancing the capacity of specialists in key reform techniques.
          • Developing the training capacity of the MoF.
          • Capacity-building activities in direct support of PFM initiatives.
          • Capacity-building for key PFM training providers in the Kyrgyz Republic.
           • Enhancing the fiduciary capacity in the MoF.
          • Capacity building of key line Ministries and other PFM agencies.

          Component 5. Project Management, costing US$0.80m at appraisal, US$0.97m at completion, including:
          • Provision of goods, training and technical assistance in carrying out project implementation, procurement and financial
          management of the TF, including audit.

          Revised Components
          In the course of project implementation, Component 1 was revised by adding new activities:
          • Establishing a new system of public procurement.
          • Improvement of inter-governmental relations.
          • Improvement of forecasting and analysis of public revenue.
          • Improvement of tax policy and tax administration.
          • Introducing International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS).
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PFM CAPACITY BUILDING (P112713)




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Project approval was December 16, 2009, effectiveness was December 16, 2009. There was no mid-term review. The project was closed
    on May 31, 2015. There were two extensions of the project’s closing date through Level II restructuring on June 27, 2013 and
    September 19, 2014. As a result, the project closing date was extended from June 30, 2013 to December 31, 2014, and then to May 31,
    2015. There was another Level II restructuring on October 30, 2013, in order to approve relocation of funds.

    The initial project budget, financed by a Multi-Donor Trust Fund Grant was signed on December 16, 2009 (Trust Fund Grant No.
    TF095472) in the amount of US$ 4,555,957.20. This grant was extended by IDA, which acted as administrator of grant funds provided by
    the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland through the Department for International Development
    (DFID), the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA), and the Government of the Swiss Confederation through
    the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO) under the Multi-Donor Trust-Fund TF071328. The European Commission (EC) also
    contributed to the Project by providing funds through an Administration Agreement signed on November 26, 2009. Sweden (SIDA) left
    the project in 2012.

    Through an amendment to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement (August 10, 2010), the project cost was increased to US$7,491,433.00.
    There were no borrower contributions. The project disbursed all funds at closing.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   At the time of the Project’s appraisal, the Kyrgyz Republic faced significant challenges in generating sustainable development. As the global
   economic crisis expanded to the region, the prospects for the Kyrgyz economy to grow at a healthy pace worsened, especially since the
   country was dependent on remittances and commodity trade with Russia and Kazakhstan both of which diminished considerably. In fact, in a
   context of vulnerability to the world commodity prices, economic growth in the Kyrgyz Republic was expected to decline sharply, and fiscal
   pressures were expected to increase. As a result, the country’s new development agenda emphasized improving the efficiency in the
   management of public resources.

   The Country Development Strategy of the Kyrgyz Republic for 2009-2011 emphasized the need to improve governance and transparency in
   public administration. It stated that the Government had made some progress in enhancing PFM, but significant further work was needed in
   this area. It also stressed the need for coordination among multiple development partners. PFM reform figured prominently in the Bank’s
   Country Assistance Strategy (FY2007-FY2012), as it was part of Area of Engagement 1, entitled “Improving governance, effective public
   administration, and reducing corruption”. Because of that, the Bank had provided support to the preparation of the PFM Action Plan and the
   authorities and donors asked the Bank to establish an MDTF and support the preparation and implementation of the Capacity Building in
   Public Finance Management Project.

   Today, the project development objective is still relevant to the current needs of PFM in the Kyrgyz Republic, and it is consistent with the
   Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for FY2014-2017. This strategy asserts that: “a decade-long effort to improve public finance management
   supported by several development partners has to date yielded only modest results, largely because of vested interests that seek to dilute
   public accountability. Actions to build a ‘leak-proof’ treasury, an enforceable budget code, effective public audit and oversight, and a
   transparent public procurement system need more attention to detail and a results focus”, including the establishment of a robust system of
   public administration. The objective is also aligned with the current Governments’ National Sustainable Development Strategy (NSDS) (2013-
   17).




   Rating
   High
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               PFM CAPACITY BUILDING (P112713)




   b. Relevance of Design

       The project design clearly stated the project development objective (PDO), and there is broadly a clear casual chain between the PDO
       components and the financed outcomes. The technical assistance was appropriate for a project that required actions to assist the borrower in
       strengthening the effectiveness, efficiency and accountability of the PFM. Technical assistance support also included significant expenditures
       in training and workshops, the strengthening of the budget process, the improvement of the medium-term budget framework, and the
       strengthening of the internal audit and control functions. The enhanced institutional and human capacity of the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance
       (MOF), and that of other line Ministries of the Recipient, would contribute to the strengthening of the PFM.

       The project was complex and ambitious by perceiving the importance of a good PFM system to contribute to poverty reduction and economic
       growth and attempting to provide support in seven key areas: 1) policy-based budgeting, 2) predictability and control in budget execution, 3)
       accounting and reporting, 4) budget comprehensiveness and transparency, 5) revenue policy and forecasting, 6) intergovernmental fiscal
       transfers and, 7) public procurement. The emphasis of these areas reflected the PFM reforms aimed at improving the efficiency in managing
       public resources, which had acquired new prominence in the Kyrgyz Republic’s development agenda.

       On the other hand, the desired improvements in medium-term macroeconomic projections as a guide to medium-term budget planning could
       have been designed to take better account of the extreme challenges of this work in a country dependent on Russia as a key economic partner.
       In addition, adoption of the budget code should not have been a PDO indicator, since the project had no control over the legislative process




       Rating
       Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Strengthening of PFM effectiveness

    Rationale
    The team provided additional information indicating that the Budget code, comprising the formalization of MTBF, was finally approved in
    May 2016, after two rejections by the Parliament, and after the project closing and completion of the ICR. This achievement is directly
    related to the project efforts.

    There were advances in encouraging government’s interactions with citizens, including the publication of budgetary documents and
    indicators, and increased access to budget information. There was also an improvement of intergovernmental relations through the
    implementation of measures such as a revised allocation policy of intergovernmental transfers, a changed system of financing the costs of
    education and incentive grants, and increases in the capacity for action of local self-governments. Finally, the improvement of the
    procurement process due to the approval of a new procurement law and the establishment of a public procurement portal were also
    positive developments.

    With respect to the internal audit and control functions, the achievements were substantial, because of the adoption and implementation of
    a range of methodologies and regulations. A provision on financial management and control in spending agencies was developed and
    adopted. The Internal Audit Methodology Unit operates within the Internal Audit (IA) Methodology and Accounting Department, IA units
    operate in 19 ministries and agencies, and a legal basis for functioning of IA Services in an additional 8 agencies was also developed. On
    the downside, an IA quality assurance mechanism is not available. The effectiveness of internal audit is confirmed by the 2014 PEFA
    assessment for the Kyrgyz Republic (PI-21: rating D in 2009 PEFA and C in 2014 PEFA).

    In relation to the goal of strengthening of the institutional and human capacity, a significant number of training activities for staff of the MoF
    and line ministries on key management and technical skills were conducted. The approved curriculum contains 37 key areas of PFM
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               PFM CAPACITY BUILDING (P112713)



    reform. 15,160 people have been trained within the Capacity Building in Public Financial Management (CB PFM) Project over the period
    2010-2015. The training capacity of the MoF was strengthened by technical equipment provided to the training center of the Ministry, and
    training of potential trainers. However, there is no analysis of the level of proficiency achieved through the training, and how it was
    measured.

    Regarding the strengthening of the budget process, some of the activities directly linked to the improvement of the budget process were not
    achieved. In particular, the plan to establish a budget information system (BIS) integrated with Treasury Management Informational
    System, which is used to prepare/analyze annual budgets, and a financing plan that is based on the annual budget law were not
    implemented, and there were no improvements of the tax administration system. However, there were some modest advances in the
    extension of the coverage of the budget to include all public sector revenue and expenditure, and in the design of public revenue
    forecasting and analysis, although the unified methodology for its implementation was not approved.

    The lack of integrated and automated information systems supporting the MTBF process, and delay in the adoption and implementation of
    a new Budget Code impeded reforms during the project implementation. As a result, a complete series of intermediate indicators (annual
    budget plans based on MTBF; consistency between the expenditure classification used in MTBF and the annual budget; clear links
    between capital expenditures and future recurrent costs, and an improved analysis of the impact of public investments on the budget over
    the medium-term) was not achieved. There were only very modest advances in the development of mechanisms for monitoring and
    analysis of non-financial indicators, but they could not be included in a non-existent MTBF.

    In summary, there are significant achievements, particularly the final approval of the Budget Code, the improvement of internal audit and
    control functions, and the implementation of a significant number of training activities. The project also presents some pitfalls in key core
    elements of a PFM system, particularly regarding the objectives of the establishment of a budget information system (BIS) integrated with
    Treasury Management Informational System, and the lack of integrated and automated information systems supporting the MTBF process.
    Taking into account the analysis of the results framework presented by the ICR, and subsequent developments, three of the five PDO
    indicators were achieved, one was not achieved, and one was partially achieved. On balance, the efficacy of this objective is in the low side
    of substantial.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     2. Strengthening of PFM Efficiency

    Rationale
    Regarding this objective, there are advancements in the areas of intergovernmental relations and procurement. In the first area, the new
    methodology for the formula-based allocation of equalization grants to local budgets should contribute to a more efficient territorial
    distribution and use of budgetary policies, and the 2014 PEFA confirms such advancement (PI-8, Transparency of Intergovernmental Fiscal
    Relations: from C on the previous assessment to A, on a scale of A to D where A is the best possible score). In the area of procurement,
    the implementation of an e-procurement system led to an increase of competitive procurement and average number of bidders per bid, and
    the time required for bid evaluation decreased by almost a half. All these improvements in procurement lead to a better cost-effectiveness
    in this area. This is also confirmed by the assessment of the 2014 PEFA (PI 19, competition, value for money and controls in procurement:
    from D+ in 2009 to C in 2014).

    In the area of internal audit and control functions, substantial advancements linked to the establishment of the Internal Audit Methodology
    Unit in the MoF and in other 19 line ministries, as well as to the development of proper audit legislation, were limited by the lack of an
    Internal Audit Quality Assurance Mechanism that is considered crucial to guarantee effectiveness and efficiency in this field.

    With respect to the strengthening of the institutional and human capacity, the ICR expected that capacities developed under the project in
    performance budgeting, internal audit and public procurement administration would contribute to a reduction in the cost of government per
    unit of output as a result of administrative cost savings and reduced procurement costs. However, as a result of the delay of a Budget Code
    and other significant tools in the area of budget process, the strengthening of efficiency linked to training activities had significant limits,
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               PFM CAPACITY BUILDING (P112713)



    since the training could not include the content of such Code and tools. Also, the efficiency of the training is unclear since there is no
    discussion in the ICR of what levels of proficiency were achieved, as mentioned above.

    In summary, although there are advances in the strengthening of PFM efficiency, the impact of the achievements in the sub-objective is
    high side of modest, as there is a lack of an Internal Audit Quality Assurance Mechanism, and an unknown level of proficiency achieved
    through the training.




    Rating
    Modest

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 3

    Objective
     3. Strengthening of PFM Accountability


    Rationale


      The project made significant progress in strengthening engagement between government and citizens, which contributed to the creation
      of an enabling environment for strengthening accountability in public financial management. The MoF introduced the practice of regular
      and systematic publications on the budget, draft budget and budget execution reports, which are now are published regularly, and the
      Civil Budgets for 2014-2015 were developed and published. A Law on access to information was adopted and implemented, and over
      the years 2014-2015, regular public budget hearings have been held.

      The Kyrgyz Republic’s Open Budget Survey score increased from 20 to 54 between 2012 and 2014, and this could be attributed in part
      to the publication of the Pre-Budget Statement, Citizens Budget, Mid-Year Review, and the Audit Report and to improvements in the
      comprehensiveness of the Executive’s Budget Proposal. The Open Budget Report notes that the Kyrgyz Republic now publishes all
      eight key budget documents, but still has to make progress in improving the comprehensiveness of the reports published during the
      budget implementation phase. Significant progress has also been made in public participation, notably by the executive through the
      introduction of budget consultations, with a score of 52 as compared with a global average of just 25. Also the 2014 PEFA confirms the
      advancements in this area (PI 11, Orderliness and participation in the annual budget process: from D in 2009 to C in 2014).

      The improvements in strengthening public financial control environment have contributed to the strengthening of the accountability in
      PFM, although the lack of the Internal Audit Quality Assurance Mechanism reduces these positive effects.

      However, on the downside, the delay in the approval of Budget Code, and the lack of a completely developed MTBF, as well as other
      pitfalls in budget process enhanced discretional powers in the PFM and produced negative effects on accountability.




    Rating
    Substantial



   5. Efficiency
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                     Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          PFM CAPACITY BUILDING (P112713)



     Economic and financial rates of return were not assessed during the project preparation nor in the ICR.

     All the project funding was used at closure. On the positive side, resources were used in a cost-effective way in activities related to the
     strengthening of internal audit and control. However, in the case of the institutional and human capacity oriented activities, which represent
     a significant proportion of the project’s budget, although there were a high number of participants in the training activities, it is unclear that
     the training was cost-effective. This is because the proficiency of trained staff was not measured. In addition, the training activities could
     not include a new Budget Law that was not approved during the project implementation, nor significant elements of the Medium Term
     Budget Framework that were not achieved. These were core elements of the expected PFM model and should have been included in the
     training. Therefore, the training effort was not sufficient in terms of being cost-efficient. Significant additional training efforts will have to be
     done after the project, once these outputs are generated, to disseminate the knowledge and expertise that could not be delivered with the
     project resources. Finally, there were two project extensions of close to two years and higher project management cost than originally
     planned.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                                   Rate Available?               Point value (%)                    *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                                    0
 Appraisal                                                                       0
                                                                                                                    Not Applicable

                                                                                                                    0
 ICR Estimate                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome


 Relevance of objective is high and that of design is substantial. The objective was well aligned with Bank and country strategies and relevant
 given the country conditions and circumstances.
 The casual chain between PDO, components and expected outcomes is generally convincing. Efficacy in sub-objectives first and third is
 rated substantial, and it is rated modest in the second sub-objective. Main shortcomings are the non-achievement of a BIS, integrated with the
 Treasury Management Informational System, and the lack of integrated and automated information systems supporting the MTBF process.
  Efficiency is rated modest due to inefficient use of training resources.




a.      Outcome Rating
        Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         PFM CAPACITY BUILDING (P112713)



Further implementation and sustainability of a significant part of the reforms implemented under the project -notably program budgeting,
introduction of the functioning MTBF, capital expenditure and forward planning and public accounting reform- are largely dependent on adoption
of the new Budget Code and implementation of an automated budget management information system, core elements of the PFM reform that
could not be created under this project.
The ICR also reports that advances in the capacity for the management and delivery of PFM training also face significant risks, because the
Training Center’s limited resources make it difficult for the Center to attract and retain highly qualified trainers and hinder the expansion of the
Center’s activities. These risks will be mitigated by support from the Bank through a pipeline project, Second Capacity Building in Public
Financial Management (P155148), with expected approval in April 2016. There are also proposals for related support from Estonia and Turkey.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry


      The project had a strong analytical basis and proposed to the Government a single instrument to manage assistance for PFM system
      reform.
      However, on the downside, diverse factors hampered implementation:
      - Risk ratings and mitigation measures did not adequately reflect ongoing political, social and economic developments.
      - The project scope and expectations regarding the progress of reforms was ambitious given the country conditions and circumstances,
      and the institutional and technical capability of the institutions.
      - Project management arrangements were focused on coordination with and between donors, while management arrangements that would
      ensure adequate ownership and participation of officials within and across the government institutions were much less prominent and much
      less effective.
      -The monitoring framework was produced almost one year after the approval, and it focused on outputs, and did not provide a complete
      basis for assessing progress towards the project’s development objectives. However, it should be noted that the project design anticipated
      that PEFA assessments planned to monitor progress in PFM reforms would fulfill this function




     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     The project was subject to close supervision from the start. Supervision missions visited the country 3-4 times a year, and the Bank placed a
     full-time extended-term consultant in the field to support the project. At the donors’ request, the Task Team Leader (TTL) was transferred to
     Bishkek and took up a field based assignment for over one year to provide closer support in the period up to project extension at the end of
     2012. Between missions, the team supported the daily work of the project by providing considerable advice and recommendations. The
     decisions to restructure and extend the project closing date were appropriate, allowing the project to complete some planned activities and
     disburse all funds.

     On the downside, the TTL was replaced three times, in one case it was due to the sad death of the TTL. Although the project was extended
     twice, and the democratic revolution of 2010, the Parliamentary election of October 2011 and the Presidential election of November 2011
     entailed a significant political shift, and created the conditions for a revision of the project, there was no mid-tem review that could lead to a
     more intense restructuring, and only study tours were done instead of it. Therefore, the Bank did not proactively resolve the main threats to the
     achievement of relevant development outcomes, in particular the Budget Code, the MTBF, and the automation of the PFM system.



     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      PFM CAPACITY BUILDING (P112713)




  Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
  Government performance slowly improved over the course of the project’s implementation, and in the later phases of the project
  commitment experienced improvement. A high-level Project Board and technical groups were constituted and provided active assistance.
  On the downside, there was an initial significant delay in project effectiveness, and in the appointment of a project manager. Political
  instability negatively affected the project and until the late months of 2012 ownership and commitment were unsatisfactory. The 2010
  Revolution and the subsequent elections created a better context for dialogue and reforms and led to the mentioned improvement. Lack of
  cooperation and low knowledge of the purpose of the reforms between officials in some instances had negative effects on the cooperation
  between the Government and the Bank, and although these elements were improved in the project’s extensions, it was not enough to
  contribute to achieve some significant development outcomes. The complex political and institutional background is probably the main
  explanation why the Government could not carry out a more complete PFM reform. Within this context, the Budget Code was rejected twice
  by the Parliament due to a combination of vested interests and differences between the political parties. However, due to the Government’s
  persistence, the draft Budget Code was submitted again to the Parliament, which finally approved it in May 2016.



  Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
  Except in the two first years of the project, the project management team in general provided effective coordination for project activities.
  Requirements developed for project assignments were detailed and clear.
  The fiduciary functions including procurement, financial management and disbursement were delegated to the MoF Project Implementation
  Unit. It was effective in accomplishing all aspects of project management, such as financial management, procurement arrangements,
  reporting activities, and disbursements.



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating
  Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
  The project anticipated the use of PEFA assessments as a means of monitoring progress of the Government’s PFM reforms over the longer
  term. The project results framework complemented the PEFA assessments focusing on the reforms rather than the improvements in PFM
  system performance. As a result of that, most of the PDO and Intermediate Outcome Indicators were framed as outputs, in terms of
  improvements in regulations and systems. Only a few of the indicators had a quantitative dimension, and the rest required a qualitative
  assessment.

  The ICR states that the 24 indicators made it difficult to prioritize and sequence activities, but IEG finds that most of them were pertinent. The
  main problem was that some indicators had not clear intermediate milestones that would allow management to monitor progress towards
  delivery of the intended output. Therefore, part of the results framework was not well suited to the assessment of progress towards the
  achievement of PDOs.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PFM CAPACITY BUILDING (P112713)




b. M&E Implementation


    Project management regularly collected data and reported on progress in relation to the indicators. Data were monitored and the progress
    was compared with the target values.
    In the course of the project implementation, the results framework was updated by the Project Board to reflect new activities implemented
    by the project and remove some activities, such as preparing a tax policy concept, for which the MoF was no longer in charge.




c. M&E Utilization
   According to the ICR, minutes of Project Board meetings and the Implementation Status Reports reveal that the data collected from the
   project annual reports and supervision missions were reviewed, evaluated and used to keep track of implementation and for decision-making
   on project activities. The monitoring information informed decisions on adjustments in project timelines and adjustments in project activities
   prior to the 2012 project extension.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   No safeguard policies were triggered by the operation.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   There were no substantial issues with regard to procurement and financial management. Small discrepancies revealed during the annual audit
   reviews or supervision missions were effectively and promptly resolved. Audit reports were provided on time. Regular procurement post-review
   reports prepared during project implementation indicated some minor issues which were promptly addressed.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None




d. Other
   The Kyrgyz Ministry of Finance has requested the World Bank to lead the preparation of a follow-up PFM capacity building project, which
   will build on activities implemented under the MDTF. The Government is currently finalizing an update of its PFM strategy. The follow-up
   project will reflect the Government’s new priorities. It will also address the unfinished agenda of the PFM Capacity Building project.




12. Ratings
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                     Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        PFM CAPACITY BUILDING (P112713)



                                                                                                                      Reason for
Ratings                                     ICR                                   IEG
                                                                                                                      Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                     Moderately Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory              ---
Risk to Development Outcome                 Substantial                          Substantial                          ---
Bank Performance                            Moderately Unsatisfactory            Moderately Unsatisfactory            ---
Borrower Performance                        Moderately Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory              ---
Quality of ICR                                                                   Modest                               ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons


IEG concurs with the lessons drawn by the ICR (ICR p. 40), with some minor adaptation.

• There is a need for TF contributors to synchronize the processes for signing of Administration Agreements to avoid delays.

• The project’s institutional arrangements need to address coordination and implementation requirements within the implementing institutions to
complement arrangements geared to coordination with external partners, as a crucial element for the success of the project. Coordination
arrangements engaging implementing agencies’ management would help to identify and address instances where key stakeholders are not
informed of the purpose of reforms, and their roles and responsibilities, and tackle implementation constraints as they arise.

• Establishment of a robust management structure within the key stakeholders would also mitigate the risks of staff turnover by clearly
distributing responsibility for implementation across a wider range of staff. In the case of this project, the lack of clarity in the distribution of roles
and responsibilities down through the institutions, along with frequent replacements of key project implementing staff, had negative effects on
the borrower performance.

• PDO concepts such as efficiency, effectiveness and accountability which are interrelated would need to be clearly spelled out in terms of
measurable dimensions of PFM performance that are relevant in the country context. The importance of identifying key milestones in the
delivery of these outputs is critical to facilitate monitoring during implementation.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR


The ICR provided a clear, thorough, and candid assessment of the operation.
On the downside, the ICR narrative in some instance is not sufficiently consistent with the ratings, in particular in the case of the borrower
performance. Furthermore, the ICR has some other significant inconsistencies, for example, (i) Bank Performance is rated as moderately
satisfactory on p. 5, at the ratings summary, and as moderately unsatisfactory on p. 38; efficiency as an element of the PDO is rated as
substantial on p. 33, and as modest on p.45, at the Annex 2 (Assessment of the achievement by Objective) ; (iii) On page 3 (key dates) there is
no information on the project restructurings, while on page 26 two Level Two restructuring are mentioned; and (iv) in a section (comments to
the Intermediate Outcome Indicator 2, p. 10) it is said that it is expected the Budget Code should be passed by the Parliament in January 2016,
while in another section (Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome, p. 37) of the ICR it is said that a Development Policy Operation is
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PFM CAPACITY BUILDING (P112713)



planned to support the Budget Code, which is inconsistent if the draft law had been passed at the beginning of 2016). The ICR could also
include a more detailed and clear explanation of the storyline of this project, its amendments and restructurings. Lastly, the ICR could have also
provided more detailed and specific information and explanation regarding Borrower Performance and its shortcomings during the project’s
execution.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Modest
