Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMClAL USIE ONLY
Report No.13198
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PAKISTAN
FAUJI AGRICO FERTILIZER PROJECT
(LOAN 1400-PAK)
JUNE 27, 1994
Country Operations, Industry & Finance Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoruation.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Rupees
(April 1977)
US$1.00 = R11.558
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
FAFCO        -      Fauji Agrico Fertilizer Company
FFC          -      Fauji Fertilizer Company
GOP          -      Government Of Pakistan
IDA          -      International Development Association
KFW          -      Kreditanstalt Fuer Wiedeaufbau
PCR          -      Project Completion Report
PPAR         -      Project Performance Audit Report
SAR          -      Staff Appraisal Report
tpd          -      tons per day
USAID        -      United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 27, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Note on Pakistan - Fauji Fertilizer
Proiect - (Loan 1400-PAK)
Attached is the Project Completion Note on Pakistan - Fauji Fertilizer Project (Loan 1400-PAK)
prepared by the South Asia Regional Office.
The objective of this project was to build a natural gas-based nitrogenous fertilizer plant
(ammonia/urea) with a capacity of 1725 tons per day of urea. A loan in the amount of US$55 million was
to be made, through the Government of Pakistan, to a private sector fertilizer company (Fauji Agrico
Fertilizer Company - FAFCO) which was formed by two main sponsors - The Fauji, a charitable trust,
and a US agrochemical company - each with 31 per cent of the shares.
Soon after the Board approval (April 1977), the US company withdrew from the project due to
the political environment prevailing in Pakistan at the time. The Bank, in consultation with the
Government of Pakistan, also decided to withdraw the loan before the signature of the legal documents
(Report SEC M77497 of June 9, 1977). Therefore, the project is not rated and no audit is planned.
A year later, the Fauji trust succeeded in finding a new partner (a Danish company) and a new
project was presented to the Executive Directors in September 1978 for which the Board approved a credit
of US$55 million equivalent. This new project was audited May 1986. Its outcome was rated as
satisfactory.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
'nit document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
nay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PAKISTAN
FAUJI AGRICO FERTILIZER PROJECT
(LOAN 1400-PAK)
I.         Proiect Identitv
Project Name:   Fauji Fertilizer Project
Loan No:         1400-PAK
RVP Unit:        South Asia Region
Country:         Pakistan
Sector:          Industry
II.        Background
1.         This is a Project Completion Note for the Fauji Fertilizer
Project for which a loan of US$ 55.0 million equivalent was approved
by the Board on April 12, 1977. The Bank, in consultation with the
Government of Pakistan (GOP), withdrew the Loan proposal on June 9,
1977, and the legal documents were never signed. A Project Completion
Report (PCR) is not being prepared because operations under this
project never got started. This Project Completion Note was prepared
by the Country Operations and Industry and Finance Division, Country
Department III, South Asia Region (SA3CI).
2.         The reason for the Bank's decision not to proceed with the
proposed Loan was that the foreign sponsor, an agro-chemical company
in the United States, withdrew from the project following a Corporate
decision to reduce its activities in Pakistan due to the political
situation that prevailed there at the time. The Bank's management
informed the Executive Directors (SEC M77-497 of June 9, 1977) of the
foreign sponsor's withdrawal and advised that if the Bank, together
with the GOP, the Fauji Foundation of Pakistan (Fauji), and the
concerned co-financing agencies -- the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) and Kreditanstalt fuer Wiedeaufbau
(KfW) -- succeeded in formulating alternative arrangements that would
enable the project to proceed, a new project proposal would be
subsequently presented for their consideration.
3.         The search for foreign partners to replace the U.S. agro-
chemical company resulted in an agreement between Fauji and a Danish
company to proceed with the development of the project. Together,
they established the Fauji Fertilizer Company (FFC) to implement and
operate the project. The project was revised accordingly and a Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR, Report No. 1392a-PAK) was prepared in August
1978. The project's main parameters and the proposed amount of the
Bank Group's contribution remained substantially unchanged. Given the
changes that had occurred in Pakistan's external financing position,
the project was submitted for IDA financing at the GOP's request. The
IDA Credit of US$ 55.0 million equivalent was made to the Government
on standard terms for on-lending to FFC at a rate of interest of 10
percent, for 15 years including 4 years of grace. The revised project
was approved by the Board in September 1978 under Credit 846-PAX,
became effective in December 1978, and was closed on June 30, 1982. A



-2-
PCR and a Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) were prepared for
Credit
846-PAK in June 1983 and May 1986, respectively.
4.         This Project Completion Note is based on a review of the SAR
of Loan 1400-PAK; the SAR, PCR, and PPAR of Credit 846-PAK; internal
Bank memoranda on project; and, on discussions with Bank staff who
were associated with the preparation of the project.
III.       Project Description
5.         The objective of the original project (Loan 1400-PAK) was to
build a natural gas-based plant with a capacity of 1,725 tons per day
(tpd), including an intermediate ammonia plant of 1,000 tpd at Goth
Machhi, Punjab Province. The basic commitment of the Government to
increase the output of the agricultural sector had led to formulation
of policies and measures to promote the domestic production of
fertilizer, an essential input for that sector. The Loan was to be
guaranteed by the Government of Pakistan and made to the Fauji Agrico
Fertilizer Company (FAFCO) at a rate of interest of 10 percent, for 15
years including 4 years grace. FAFCO was formed by two sponsors --
the Fauji, a charitable trust with satisfactory industrial experience,
and a U.S. agro-chemical company -- each of which subscribed 31
percent of the share capital. A consortium of Pakistani Commercial
Banks and financial institutions owned the rest of FAFCO's shares.
6.         The revised project (Credit 846-PAK) had essentially the
same objectives. It was owned and operated by the FFC and co-financed
by the USAID, KfW, and the Italian and Danish Governments. As noted
in the related PCR, the project was implemented satisfactorily and was
completed in December 1981.
IV.        Lessons Learned
7.         Despite the withdrawal of the foreign sponsor/technical
partner, the project was not dropped altogether. The preparatory work
which was done for Loan 1400-PAK was not lost as the Government found
a new foreign partner shortly after the withdrawal of the original
project, and the Bank was able to submit the revised project to the
Board within one year. This was due to the fact that the original
project was well prepared and structured. Also, the Bank was
responsive in working with the GOP to proceed with the new project,
notwithstanding the difficult political and macroeconomic conditions
in Pakistan at that time.
8.         Although, the original project was never started and permits
no major lessons, the restructured project, with the same objective
and design, was completed satisfactorily and evaluated by the Fauji
and the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department after the closing of
the Credit.



