Document of
FILE COPY    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2 371 -PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE
FAUJI FERTILIZER PROJECT
August 16, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS                        WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Except where otherwise indicated,          1 metric ton (t) - 1,000 kilograms (kg)
all figures are quoted in Pakistan         1 metric ton (t) - 2,204.6 pounds
Rupees (PRs).                              1 kilometer (km) - 0.62 mile
1 hectare        = 2.47 acres
PRa 1.00          -    US$0.10             1 cubic meter    = 35.3 cubic feet
PRs 9.90          =    US$1.00
PRs 1 million    =    US$101,010
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
Anic          -      Anic S.p.A. (Italy)
BTU           -      British Thermal Up-it
CAN           -      Calcium Ammonium Nitrate (26-0-0, i.e, 26% Nitrogen)
Coming        -      Coming S.p.A. (Italy)
DH            -      Dawood Hercules Chemicals Ltd.
Fauji         -      Fauji Foundation
FFC           -      Fauji Fertilizer Company Ltd.
ICP           -      Investment Corporation of Pakistan
IDB           -      Islamic Development Bank
IFU           -      Industrialization Fund for Developing Countries (Denmark)
JCE           -      James Chemical Engineering (USA)
KfW           -      Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (Germany)
20           -      Potassium Oxide, the Indicator of Potassium Content of
Fertilizer
MAP           -      Mono Ammonium Phosphate
N             -      Nitrogen, the Indicator of Nitrogen Content of Fertilizer
NFC           -      National Fertilizer Corporation
NIT           -      National Investment Trust
NP            -      Nitrophosphate
N:P           -      Nitrogen/Phosphate Ratio
PIDC          -      Pakistan Industrial Development Corporation
P205          -      Phosphorus Pentoxide, the Indicator of Phosphorus
Content of Fertilizer
Snam          -      Snamprogetti S.p.A. (Italy)
Topsoe        -      Haldor Tops4e A/S
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
Topsoe    : January 1 - December 31
Fauji     : October 1 - September 30
FFC       ; July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FAUJI FERTILIZER PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiary:         Fauji Fertilizer Company Limited (FFC).
Amount:              US$55.0 million.
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    15 years, including 4 years grace, at 10% per annum
interest. FFC will carry the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The Project will help meet Pakistan's growing require-
ments for nitrogenous fertilizer using locally available
gas. It consists of the construction of a 1,725 tons
per day (tpd) urea plant, including an intermediate
ammonia plant of 1,000 tpd at Goth Macchi, Punjab Pro-
vince. The Project also includes the construction of
a 33-mile pipeline to transport gas from the Mari field
to the Project site and all necessary ancillary facil-
ities. An important benefit would be substantial for-
eign exchange savings, estimated at US$79 million
annually in 1978 terms. Because of inflationary pres-
sure in Pakistan, there is some risk that costs will
escalate beyond the provisions included in the cost
estimates. There is also a risk that demand for fer-
tilizer may not grow at the projected rates if the
Government does not pursue appropriate agricultural
pricing and other policies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                             US$Million
Local   Foreign      Total
Buildings & structures
including land                     12.6        7.9        20.5
Equipment, materials,
spares, including freight           2.3       89.1        91.4
Gas & water lines                     2.2        4.3         6.5
Erection, construction, super-
vision, licenses & engineering    9.5         29.9        39.4
Total Plant Cost                26.6      131.2       157.8
Township                             11.9        0.1        12.0
Technical assistance, training         -         4.9         4.9
Pre-operating & administrative
expenses, including stamp
duties                             11.3        1.7        13.0
Base cost                       49.8      137.9       187.7
Contingencies:   Physical             4.3        8.1        12.4
Price              13.7       12.8        26.5
Working capital                       12.7        -         12.7
Total Project Cost            80.5      158.8      239.3
Interest during construction         21.0        -          21.0
Total                          101.5      158.8      260.3
Financing Plan:  /a                                          (US$ million)
Local    Foreign    Total
Equity
Fauji Foundation                   27.6         -         27.6
Haldor Topsoe A/S                   1.8        3.2         5.0
IFU-Denmark                         1.8        3.2         5.0
Islamic Dev. Bank                    -        10.0        10.0
Pakistan Financial
Institutions &
Commercial Banks                 30.3         -        30.3
Total Equity                   61.5      16.4        77.9
Debt
IDA                                  -        55.0       55.0
USAID                                -        40.0       40.0
KfW-Germany                          -        40.0       40.0
Italian Govt.                        -         7.4        7.4
Pakistan Fin. Inst.
& Commercial Banks               40.0         -        40.0
Total Debt                     40.0     142.4       182.4
Total                         101.5     158.8       260.3
/a A contingent financing plan provides for additional con-
tributions in the event of cost increases (see paragraph 44).



- iii -
Estimated                                                   (US$ Million)
Disbursements:                                      FY1979   FY1980   FY1981
Annual                        7.0      23.0      25.0
Cumulative                    7.0      30.0      55.0
Rate of Return:           23%
Appraisal Report:         No. 1392a-PAK dated August 14, 1978.
Map:                      IBRD 10818 RI






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE FAUJI FERTILIZER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of
US$55 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a project for the con-
struction of a fertilizer plant at Goth Macchi in the Southern Punjab,
with a capacity of 1,725 tons per day (tpd), equivalent to 570,000 tons per
year (tpy) of urea. The proceeds of the credit would be relent to Fauji
Fertilizer Company Limited (FFC) for 15 years, including 4 years of grace,
with interest at 10% per annum.
2.        On April 12, 1977, the Executive Directors approved a Bank loan of
US$55 million for the project, which at that time was sponsored by the Fauji
Foundation and Agrico Chemical Company (Report No. P-2023-PAK). However, on
May 20, 1977, before signing of the loan documents, Agrico informed the Bank
and the other parties concerned that Agrico had decided to withdraw from the
project. As a result, the Bank did not proceed with the loan. We informed
the Executive Directors of Agrico's withdrawal (Sec M77-497 dated June 9, 1977)
and indicated that a new proposal would be submitted for their consideration
if efforts to make new arrangements for the project proved successful. The
main parameters of the project now proposed are substantially the same as in
the earlier proposal. Annex III, page 37 shows, in a summary table, the
main differences between the Fauji Agrico project and the present project.
Because of Pakistan's present external financial situation, the proposed Bank
Group's contribution is now in the form of an IDA credit instead of a Bank
loan (see paragraph 16).
3.        The Fauji Foundation (Pakistan) and Haldor Tops$e A/S (Denmark)
are the sponsors of the project and are participating in the financing with
subscriptions of up to US$29.2 million equivalent and up to US$5.2 million
equivalent respectively to the share capital of FFC. The Industrialization
Fund for Developing Countries (IFU-Denmark) and the Islamic Development Bank
(IDB) will also participate with subscriptions of up to US$5.2 million and
US$10 million, respectively, to the share capital of FFC. A consortium of
Pakistan financial institutions and commercial banks will subscribe to the
remainder of the equity.
4.        The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and
the Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW-Germany) are also participating with
loans of US$40 million and about US$40 million equivalent, respectively.  In
addition, Italy is providing a credit of up to US$10 million equivalent and
the Government of Denmark will provide a loan of up to US$3.9 million equiva-
lent as part of the contingent financing plan in the event there are cost
overruns (see paragraph 44). The USAID loan is for 40 years at 2% per annum
during the grace period and 3% per annum thereafter. The KfW loan is for 30
years at 2.1% per annum. These four loans would be made to the Government



-2-
which would relend them to FFC on the same relending terms as those applicable
to the IDA Credit. The remaining Rupee financing would be provided by a con-
sortium of Pakistan financial institutions and commercial banks in the form
of loans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
5.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Development Issues and
Policies" (No. 1924-PAK, dated April 7, 1978) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 11, 1978.
6.        Economic performance during the 1970s compares unfavorably with the
record of rapid growth of output and exports during the 1960s. GDP has grown
at about 3% per annum in real terms, compared to more than 6% during the 1960s,
and rapid population growth has meant that there has been virtually no increase
in per capita incomes. Output in the major productive sectors (agriculture and
industry) has risen even more slowly than GDP - at about 2% per annum - and GDP
itself only achieved a growth rate of 3% as a result of expansion in construc-
tion, government and service industries.
7.        To a considerable degree this disappointing performance has been due
to factors outside the Government's immediate or direct control. The 1970s
began in crisis with the war with India and the separation of Bangladesh, and
there followed a series of economic and climatic misfortunes which undermined
the basis for growth. These included a poor monsoon in 1974/75 and serious
floods in 1972/73 and 1975/76, as well as the petroleum crisis and the subse-
quent world recession. Moreover, political instability and uncertainty have
had serious economic implications. It is also, however, true that the policy
response to these problems has in many respects been inadequate and has con-
tributed to the economy's disappointing performance. Changing attitudes to
the private sector, illustrated by a series of nationalizations that began
in 1972, had a depressing effect on private investment, while legislation
served to increase real wages in the industrial sector at a time of other cost
increases and increasingly difficult export markets. Major increases in public
investment have more than offset declining private investment, but new invest-
ment has been concentrated in capital-intensive, long-gestation projects which
in many cases have yet to result in increased production. This investment
contributed to a massive deterioration in the trade account. To finance
imports, and to cover serious shortfalls in public saving, the Government
resorted to heavy borrowing from abroad, including a major increase from OPEC
countries. Workers' remittances have increased very substantially over the
last two years, but stagnant exports and rising debt repayments still impose
a serious strain on the balance of payments while the problem of domestic
resource mobilization continues to constrain economic development.
8.        A start has been made in the process of policy adjustment and mea-
sures have been implemented which go some way towards solving the country's
serious resource management problems. The new Government has shown that it
attaches importance to the private sector. The agricultural processing
industries (except the vegetable ghee industry) have been denationalized, the



area open to private investment has been greatly extended, credit and tax
incentives (especially for export) have been improved and considerable
improvements have been recorded in the labor situation. Agricultural sup-
port prices have been maintained, and in some cases increased, and an effort
is being made to improve input availability to the farmer. Finally, a review
of Government investment and related priorities was undertaken in the context
of the preparation of the revised Fifth Plan, which recognizes the limitations
of overall resources and the need to redirect the pattern of economic develop-
ment away from large public industrial and other long gestation projects and
towards the agricultural and social sectors.
9.        To date the impact of these measures has been limited.  While GDP,
according to preliminary estimates, grew by around 6.5% during FY78, compared
to only 1.7% in FY77, this represents in large measure a recovery in agricul-
ture, especially in the cotton crop which fell disastrously in the previous
year. In contrast, there has been little indication of a significant recovery
in private investment or exports, the budget deficit is likely to remain large
in FY79 and inflationary pressures and the external balance continue to give
cause for concern. In addition, the 1977/78 wheat crop was a major disap-
pointment, with production well below, and thus import requirements con-
siderably above, the Government's target.
10.       While the overall economic situation provides little room for ma-
neuver, and the policy changes that have already taken place are in the right
direction, it remains the case that further measures which face basic issues
limiting economic growth in the longer term are needed. These issues include
the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture; the struc-
ture and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the factors lying behind
continued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service
expenditures; the deterioration in the performance of public sector enterprises
and the administrative machinery generally; the low elasticity of tax revenues
and the problems of public resource mobilization; and the large trade deficit
and the continued dependence on capital inflows from abroad.
11.       Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Much of agricul-
ture's disappointing performance in recent years is attributable to the decline
in cotton output since other crops (with the notable exception of wheat last
year) have generally fared better. Nevertheless, even for these (wheat, rice,
sugar) there was a major setback in the early 1970s to the 'green revolution'
initiated during the 1960s. While a deceleration in the introduction of new
technologies after several years of rapid growth is not surprising, yields
still remain well below those achieved under comparable conditions elsewhere,
even for the new varieties. Since cropped areas have also failed to respond
to the opportunities created by increases in water availability (e.g., from
Tarbela) production has been well below the potential implied by the resources
and technologies available. Considerable potential still exists for the
additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, but it appears also essential
to give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and programs which
have a direct impact at the farm level. Major improvements are possible in



-4-
the water delivery system and in the general level of agricultural practices.
High priority therefore needs to be given to water course improvement programs,
to investments designed to reverse water-logging and salinity and to projects
designed to establish a systematic and effective extension service. Without
such initiatives, agricultural growth in the longer term will suffer and the
benefits from the available inputs and resources will remain well below their
technical potential.
12.       Industry contributes about 16% of GDP and during much of the 1950s
and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in industrial
production have, however, declined from about 10% per year during the 1960s
to only 2% in recent years. The major structural change in the industrial
sector since 1973 has been the expansion of the public sector from about 10%
to about 25% of industrial assets. Private investment has declined markedly
as a result of nationalization fears, rapid cost inflation, labor problems,
adverse export market conditions and problems in raw material supply. The
textile industry, in particular, which accounts for about 40% of value added
in large-scale industry, has suffered from problems of inefficiency, excess
capacity and a lack of competitiveness in foreign markets, while manufacturing
growth generally has been affected by the poor performance of public sector
enterprises. A revival in the industrial investment climate depends on a
period of reasonably prolonged stability and a shift in the overall balance
of production towards higher value added products which are responsive to
market opportunities and preferences. Also important will be progress in,
and results from, oil exploration for which there appears to be considerable
potential.
13.       While it is clearly vital to re-establish a base for more rapid
growth in the commodity-producing sectors, it is also true that rapid growth
in population, currently running at about 3% per annum, has seriously handi-
capped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have unfortunately had little effect and there have been few changes
in the socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines
in fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on Government
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy rates, improved health
facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population
growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on social services remain
comparatively low and undue emphasis has been given to such elements as higher
education and urban health facilities. High priority needs therefore to be
given not only to increased allocations for family planning and social service
expenditure but also to its redirection to serve the wider interests of the
population and the economy.
14.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints. Domestic resource mobilization has become a major prob-
lem area in the economy. Public sector development expenditures increased
from 5.5% of GDP in FY71 to 11.2% in FY77 while non-development expenditures
more than trebled. Public sector savings declined, and indeed were negative
from FY72 to FY75, although they recovered to about 2% of GDP in FY77.  The



- 5 -
scope for non-inflationary domestic borrowing has been limited by declining
private savings, so that financing public expenditures has become heavily
dependent on external and domestic bank borrowing, with foreign assistance
financing no less than 70% of development expenditures in FY76, and an even
higher proportion of public investment. The share of development expendi-
tures financed through foreign assistance fell to 48% in FY77 because of a
decline in aid receipts. To improve domestic resource mobilization, addi-
tional taxation and improvements in tax administration are needed; non-
development expenditures must be restrained, possibly through selective
reductions in subsidies; and the contribution of public enterprises should
be enhanced, for instance through tariff increases. Given the limits to
domestic and external borrowing, and the constraints on increasing revenues
and decreasing current expenditures, it remains essential to limit the size
and adjust the content of the public investment program. Emphasis needs to
be given to providing adequate resources for agriculture and other areas
where substantial and rapid increases in production and exports appear
possible, as well as to the social sectors, which have been neglected in
recent years. Conversely, the proportion of resources devoted to capital-
intensive industrial and long gestation projects should be reduced.
15.       The external position has been greatly assisted by rapidly rising
workers' remittances from abroad, notably from the Middle East, and these
have risen from US$130 million in FY73 to US$578 million in FY77 and to an
estimated US$1,100 million in FY78. This increase has, however, been more
than offset by a massive deterioration in the trade balance with the result
that the current account deficit increased from about US$130 million in FY73
to more than US$1,000 million in FY75. It remained at roughly this level in
FY76 and FY77, with rising remittances offsetting further increases in the
trade deficit, but declined in FY78, due mainly to the massive increase in
remittances. Allowing for debt repayments, however, external financing re-
quirements amounted to about US$1,100 million in FY78. Long-term capital
inflows on concessional terms have been insufficient to cover this amount
and - even after suspending debt payments to Iran - substantial recourse to
short-term borrowing proved necessary. The major uncertainty for FY79 and
beyond relates to remittances but, assuming a fairly conservative estimate
for these, external financing requirements are likely to remain well above
US$1,000 million in nominal terms, even allowing for fairly optimistic trade
projections. While financing in the range of US$1,100-US$1,300 millions was
obtained during the mid-1970's, funds from OPEC sources may be more difficult
to arrange in the future while assistance from traditional donors is only
likely to be forthcoming in the required amounts if appropriate development
policies are implemented. Unless workers' remittances rise more rapidly than
is now expected, therefore, the external position is likely to continue tight.
16.       Total external debt outstanding at the beginning of FY78 amounted
to about US$6.27 billion of which US$3.76 billion was due to Consortium
bilateral donors, US$1.04 billion to OPEC, US$1.08 billion to multilateral
agencies and the balance to other bilateral and private lenders. Contractual
debt service to official agencies rose from US$313 million in FY73 to US$394
in FY77 although the burden of these payments was eased to US$200 and US$310
million respectively as a result of debt relief arrangements. The four-year



- 6 -
debt relief agreement with bilateral consortium members expired on June 30,
1978, and if no further agreement is reached, debt service payments will rise
steeply, greatly increased by repayments under relatively short-term OPEC bor-
rowing. In FY79, contractual payments are expected to amount to around US$535
million and considerably more in subsequent years. As a proportion of exports,
non-factor service payments and workers' remittances, debt service can be
expected to rise from about 15% in the FY75-77 period to around 17.5% in FY79,
assuming substantial growth in both exports and workers remittances. Pakistan
obviously needs to exercise care in protecting its ability to borrow to meet
future requirements, and to restrict commercial borrowing to a minimum. For
this reason, Bank Group lending to Pakistan is currently confined to IDA
credits. Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY77 was about
15% of its external public indebtedness; by 1980 this ratio is likely to fall
to about 11%. The share of the Bank Group in total debt service (after taking
into account debt relief from other creditors) is now about 20%, but this is
expected to decrease to about 9% in 1980.
17.       Pakistan's resource endowment, especially in the Indus Basin system,
is substantial and during the 1960s the economy demonstrated a considerable
capacity for growth. Rough estimates suggest that the economy could grow at
perhaps 5-6% per annum over the next five years, and that this could be accom-
panied by a wider distribution of the benefits of growth than was achieved
during the 1960s. A start has been made in the process of policy adjustment,
but it is clearly evident that a wide range of further initiatives are neces-
sary to deal with the causes underlying the economy's disappointing performance
in recent years. Only if these new policies and programs are pursued consist-
ently over a number of years will the basis for longer-term improvements in
living standards for the population as a whole be established.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
18.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$1.7 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all sec-
tors of the economy. Through FY78, 37% of total commitments were for public
services, 30% for agriculture, 31% for industry (of which 10% was for indus-
trial imports) and 2% for education. Lending for public services has amounted
to almost US$700 million and has included loans and credits for railways,
electric power, gas pipelines, Karachi Port, highways, telecommunications and
water supplies. A large part of past lending for agriculture was for Indus
Basin projects. Lending for industry has been mainly through the Pakistan
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). For most projects for
which loans and credits are being disbursed, construction is now going ahead
satisfactorily. The principal problems being encountered are that the rates
charged by some of the public services have not kept pace with inflation and,
hence, some utilities are not earning adequate returns. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of June 30, 1978 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.



19.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives.  One of
these is to support the directly productive sectors of the economy and, in
particular, to increase production of import substitutes such as foodgrains,
edible oils, fertilizer and engineering goods and to sustain export growth
in cotton yarn and textiles, rice and a large number of other industrial and
agricultural products. The main part of Bank Group assistance for industry
will continue to be through financial intermediaries. These include PICIC
for the medium and large-scale private sector, the Industrial Development Bank
of Pakistan (IDBP) for the small and medium scale industrial sector, and the
National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC) for industries in the public
sector. For the agricultural sector IDA lending is expected to be concen-
trated on the Government's program to increase productivity in the Indus Basin
by controlling salinity and improving the utilization of surface irrigation
and groundwater. The Bank is the Executing Agency for a UNDP technical
assistance grant for improving agriculture and water planning in the Indus
Basin.
20.       Another objective is to support the necessary expansion of, and
to improve the institutions which are responsible for, the principal public
services which have benefitted from Bank Group lending in the past, namely,
the Telegraph and Telephone Department, Karachi Port, Water and Power Devel-
opment Authority, Pakistan Railways, Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd. and the
Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency. A number of these agencies are beset by
institutional weaknesses. In some cases, improvements are being made with
technical assistance financed under loans and credits. In other cases, where
the problems are of such a nature that action by government is required, the
Bank Group is encouraging GOP to take remedial measures.
21.       A third objective is to extend lending operations into areas which
will help to bring economic development to the poorest strata of the popula-
tion. This shift implies increased lending for agriculture and rural develop-
ment and will involve significant lending for projects complementary to the
Indus/Tarbela works. In the urban sector, Bank missions have been working
with municipal authorities on the plans for the urban development of Karachi,
whose population now exceeds 4 million, and Lahore, Pakistan's second largest
city. A Karachi master plan was completed in 1974 with the assistance of
consultants financed by UNDP. Within the framework of the plan, a project
was proposed and appraised for urban upgrading in the Lyari section of the
city. This project, however, has been deferred indefinitely due to Govern-
ment reconsideration of the project cost and financial arrangements. Plann-
ing in Lahore, which has a population of about 2 million, is at a much earlier
stage than in Karachi and the immediate need is for technical assistance.
Accordingly, the IDA credit for the second Lahore water supply, sewerage and
drainage project includes provision for the financing of urban studies in
Lahore. The emphasis being given to agriculture and other projects with low
foreign exchange component justifies the financing of some local expenditures
in appropriate cases.
22.       A number of projects for Bank Group financing are currently under
appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. Appraisal missions have completed



-8-
field reviews of a third power project, a petroleum development project and
another irrigation and drainage project. Preparatory work is proceeding on
a fourth agricultural credit project, a third highways project, a Karachi
bulk water supply project and an agricultural extension and development pro-
ject in Sind.
23.       IFC has made investments in nine Pakistan enterprises for a total
of US$30.2 million, of which US$22.8 million was by way of loans and US$7.4
million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II). About US$11
million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three
in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles and one each in
cement, steel and fertilizers. IFC is also a shareholder of PICIC.
PART III - THE FERTILIZER SECTOR
General
24.       As already described in paragraph 11 above, the growth in agricul-
tural production in Pakistan has slowed down in recent years. In order to
reverse this trend, the Government is endeavoring to increase the availability
of major inputs such as water, fertilizers, improved seeds, pesticides, farmer
credit and extension services. About 48 million acres, or 24% of the coun-
try's total area, are cultivated. The main crops are wheat, cotton, rice and
sugarcane. About 34 million acres, or 71% of the cropped areas, are irrigated
by an extensive system of canals and tubewells, one of the largest in the
world. The Province of the Punjab, the major agricultural region with about
25 million cropped acres, has a particularly well-developed irrigation system.
25.       The expansion of Pakistan's agricultural output will depend pre-
dominantly on developing the potential for higher production in irrigated
areas. At present, year-to-year variability in canal water supply is large
and this uncertainty has a negative impact on fertilizer consumption. The
Bank Special Agricultural Sector Review, circulated to the Executive Directors
in March 1976, concluded that on average only 55 to 60% of the water required
for maximum yields, and thus for maximum fertilizer application rates, was
actually available at the farm gates. Moreover, because of the yearly varia-
tion of water supply, the farmer cannot rely on a stable supply of more than
40 to 45% of water requirements. The Government's efforts to increase total
water availability from 97 million acre feet (MAF) in 1975 to 116 MAF in 1980
are of vital importance for increasing agricultural production. About half
of the increased water supply will be through surface water schemes (mainly
Tarbela) and about half through groundwater development (mainly tubewells).
Fertilizer Market
26.       During 1965-73, consumption of nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizer
increased from a low base at average annual rates of 28 and 70%, respectively.
The primary reasons were the introduction of high-yielding varieties of wheat



- 9 -
and rice during the mid-1960s, increased availability of water and attractive
fertilizer prices. The 1973 floods, the subsequent drought, the delay in the
availability of Tarbela water because of the mishaps in 1974 and 1975, and the
doubling of fertilizer prices (reflecting the increase of import prices) with-
out commensurate increases in crop prices led to a decline in fertilizer con-
sumption during 1973-75. Disruption of the fertilizer distribution system,
following the takeover of fertilizer marketing in 1973 by the Provincial
Governments, also contributed to this decline.
27.       In 1975 and 1976, the Government took a number of steps to stimulate
fertilizer demand. Crop procurement prices were increased and fertilizer
retail prices lowered. Fertilizer companies were allowed to revive their
marketing and distribution systems, and marketing margins were increased.
In addition, lending procedures for small and medium-scale farmers were sim-
plified. These measures, combined with good weather, increased consumption
of nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers by 23% and 80% respectively in
1976 and a further 15% and 8% respectively in 1977. The large increase in
phosphate use reflected the Government's efforts to maintain a favorable price
for phosphate in order to correct the imbalance in the nitrogen/phosphate
ratio. Despite the rapid increase, fertilizer application rates in Pakistan
are only one-quarter to one-third the recommended levels, depending on
the crop.
28.       Taking into account planned increases in water supply and existing
crop/fertilizer price ratios, fertilizer consumption is expected to continue
to grow at relatively high, though declining rates in the next few years.
Gradually, as opportunities for increasing water supply and increased use of
high-yielding varieties diminish, the growth rate is expected to slow down
from 15% in 1977 to about 7% by 1981, and 6% in 1985. The level of nitrogen
consumption is forecast to increase from 511,000 nutrient tons in 1977 to
954,000 tons in 1985. Demand for phosphate fertilizers is expected to nearly
triple from 118,000 nutrient tons in 1977 to 329,000 tons in 1985.
Fertilizer Supply
29.       Pakistan has been heavily dependent on imports for its fertilizer
supplies.  At present, the country has five operating fertilizer plants, with
a combined capacity of 317,000 tpy of nitrogenous and 17,500 tpy of phosphatic
nutrients. Two private sector plants, including the Bank/IFC-financed Dawood
Hercules plant near Lahore, account for 75% of the industry's installed capacity
for nitrogen and over 80% of output. The remaining three plants, accounting
for 25% of capacity, are operated by the public sector National Fertilizer
Corporation (NFC); because of design deficiencies in the ammonia sections,
the capacity utilization of one of these plants currently averages about 40%.
In 1977, local production met about 60% of nitrogen and about 10% of phosphate
consumption.
30.       Using Pakistan's natural gas, the Government plans to expand fertil-
izer production substantially. Including the proposed project, three large
plants will increase production capacity of nitrogenous and phosphatic fer-
tilizers by 320% and 900%, respectively, by 1981. Two of these projects - the
Pakarab plant in Multan, in the financing of which the Bank is participating



- 10 -
and the Pak-Saudi plant at Mirpur Mathelo - will be operated by NFC. With the
implementation of the proposed FFC project, Pakistan should be self-sufficient
in nitrogenous fertilizer from 1981 until 1984. A small surplus of domestic
production is expected during the period.
31.       Both retail and ex-factory prices of fertilizers are set by the Gov-
ernment. Retail prices, which are uniform throughout the country, are revised
periodically to take into account import prices, domestic production costs and
crop prices. The last major revision was undertaken in early 1976 when retail
prices were reduced, despite high world prices, in order to stimulate agricul-
tural production. Since then, the minimum price for cotton and the procurement
price established by the Government for rice have been increased but those for
wheat and sugar have remained constant. While price relationships have been
adequate to encourage the rapid increase in fertilizer offtake mentioned above
(paragraphs 26 and 27), there is evidence that further price adjustments,
especially in relation to wheat, may be desirable. Ex-factory prices are
established on a case-by-case basis, with the aim of allowing each manufacturer
a reasonable return on investment. In recent years, the retail price of urea
(PRs 1,360 per ton in 1977/78) has been much higher than the price paid to the
main domestic producers (PRs 784 to 856 per ton). The difference, less dis-
tribution costs including dealer margins, is paid as a Development Surcharge
to the Government and is used to partially offset the subsidy on imports. As
new projects with much higher initial capital costs (and hence higher ex-
factory prices) come on stream and the cost of imported fertilizer continues
to increase, the net subsidy paid by the Government will increase substantially
unless the retail price of urea is raised. The newly established Fertilizer
Planning Committee (see paragraph 41) is expected to review pricing policies
as a whole, including the treatment of different factories and the extent to
which the Government budget can be expected to bear an increasing subsidy. Any
recommendations for increased fertilizer prices would have to be accompanied
by adjustments to crop output prices in order to maintain, or increase, the
returns to the farmer.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The project was reappraised in March/April 1978.  An updated
Appraisal Report (No. 1392a-PAK) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Additional data on the preparation of the project are
given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington in July 1978. The
Pakistan delegation was led by Mr. Aftab Ahmad Khan, Secretary, Finance and
Economic Affairs, Government of Pakistan.
33.       The proposed credit would be the Bank Group's third operation in
support of the fertilizer industry in Pakistan. The first loan - in July
1968 - was for US$32 million equivalent and was made, together with an IFC
loan of US$1 million and equity investment of US$2.9 million, to Dawood
Hercules Chemicals Ltd. (DH) for a 1,100 tons per day (tpd) urea plant near
Lahore in the Punjab. The project has been a major technological and economic
success. The plant was completed at close to the original estimated cost and
began production in July 1971, virtually on schedule. It has consistently



- 11 -
operated at high capacity. Because of higher than expected import duties,
the reluctance of the Government in granting price increases, the temporary
nationalization of the fertilizer distribution system in 1973 (in 1975 pri-
vate producers and dealers were again allowed to market fertilizers), and
the devaluation of the rupee in 1972, DH's financial return has been less
satisfactory (8% for local and 4% for foreign investors) (Project Performance
Audit Report No. 1345 dated November 10, 1976). However, the Government has
recently allowed DH a higher price. The second Bank loan in the amount of
US$35 million was made in May 1974, to Pakarab Fertilizers Ltd. to help
finance the expansion and modernization of the Government-owned calcium
ammonium nitrate (CAN) and urea plant at Multan. The Asian Development Bank
(ADB) and the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) are providing loans of
US$27 million and an equity participation of US$31 million, respectively.
When completed, the expanded plant will have a capacity to produce about
910 tpd ammonia, 1,000 tpd prilled nitro-phosphate, 1,800 tpd CAN and 200 tpd
urea. The project has borne the full brunt of the worldwide inflation and
equipment delivery delays following the oil price increases in 1974. Ori-
ginally estimated to cost US$106 million equivalent, it is now expected to
require US$199 million. Additional funds are being provided by the OPEC
Special Fund, NFC, ADNOC and commercial banks. Startup, originally scheduled
for early 1977, is now expected to take place in late 1978. The main causes
of delay were a shortage of civil contractors' capacity in Pakistan and late
deliveries of critical equipment. Because of the increase of international
prices of fertilizers that has taken place in the meantime, the project
remains economically viable.
34.       The proposed project incorporates lessons learned from the DH
and Multan projects. It embodies the elements that have contributed to DH's
technological and economic success, namely, the involvement of local and
foreign partners which combine the knowledge of local conditions with tech-
nical and marketing experience; the hiring of competent engineering firms
which have an incentive for constructing the project on time and within
a specified budget and have experience in constructing the Pak-Saudi plant
which is almost identical in design and only about 20 miles away from the
site of the proposed project; emphasis on reliable plant design; and careful
planning and training. The Marketing and Pricing Principles Agreement between
the Government and FFC also deals satisfactorily with the pricing, taxation,
devaluation and marketing issues which adversely affected DH's financial
performance. Similarly, the contracts between FFC and the engineering and
construction firms provide a satisfactory framework for dealing with the
implementation problems that have affected the Multan project, and contain
incentives to complete the project on schedule and within a specified budget.
These firms have assumed full liability for foreign exchange cost overruns
beyond US$12 million above US$105 million for the landed cost of imported
equipment, materials and spares included in the basic estimate.
35.       Essentially, the project arrangements, taken together, constitute
a package designed to reconcile three major objectives. First, the Government
of Pakistan wished to attract foreign private capital and know-how to the
country in general and to the fertilizer industry in particular to supplement
the effort of the public sector, which is over-stretched in constructing two



- 12 -
large plants and to provide competition. Second, private sponsors, both
foreign and local, were naturally concerned that in a situation in which the
Government controls many of the determinants of sales revenue and cost - in
particular, input and output prices as well as marketing margins - their
ability to earn a reasonable return on investment should not be jeopardized by
Government actions. Third, the Government was concerned that the arrangements
for the project in no way impaired the sponsors' incentive to build and operate
the plant efficiently. To that end, the Government has agreed with FFC and
the sponsors that the project's ex-factory price will be set so as to yield
the sponsors a reasonable return on their investment if the plant is built
within a specified capital cost and operates at efficient levels (paragraph
47).  The Company will assume the production and sales volume risk and will be
allowed to market its output without territorial restrictions in the country.
The Company will realize the stipulated return on equity if it builds the pro-
ject on time and at or below the established ceiling on capital cost, operates
efficiently at stipulated levels of capacity utilization and effectively
markets its output.
Project Scope and Location
36.       The proposed credit would finance the construction of a 1,725 tpd
gas-based urea plant, an intermediate ammonia plant with a capacity of
1,000 tpd and ancillary facilities at Goth Macchi in the southern Punjab. The
project includes a bagging plant, storage and loading facilities, water puri-
fication and effluent treatment units, a power plant, maintenance facilities
and a housing colony. The plant will be located halfway, about 375 miles,
between Karachi and Lahore along the main railway line and highway connecting
both cities. Gas will be transported from the Mari field by a 33-mile pipe-
line included in the project and to be built, owned and operated by FFC.
The field's reserves are estimated at 4.0 trillion cubic feet (TCF), of which
1.8 TCF are proven. Including the proposed project, the Mari field would
supply three fertilizer plants, of which one (Esso Fertilizer) has operated
since 1968 and another (Pak-Saudi Project) is under construction. The proven
reserves would meet the requirements of the three plants for about 25 years.
However, if a fourth plant of the same size as the proposed FFC plant were
established on the basis of Mari gas, the assured reserves would meet the gas
requirements of the four plants for only about 15 years. Accordingly, the
Government has agreed to guarantee the supply of gas to the project and not
to sanction additional users until adequate additional reserves are proven
(Section 3.06 (b) of the draft Credit Agreement). A contract between Esso
Eastern Incorporated and FFC for the supply to the project of gas for 20 years
has been concluded.
Project Implementation
37.       The project will be implemented by a newly established company,
Fauji Fertilizer Company Limited (FFC), in which the sponsors, the Fauji
Foundation (Fauji), and Haldor TopsOe A/S (Topsoe) will provide up to 36% and
6.4%, respectively, of the equity capital. Fauji is a charitable trust estab-
lished in Pakistan in 1953 for the benefit of ex-military personnel and their
dependents. The main benefits provided by Fauji are medical services and



- 13 -
educational stipends. The Foundation owns and operates nine industrial pro-
jects (sugar and textile mills, gas bottling and distribution, and food
processing). Currently, Fauji employs about 12,000 people, and in FY77 had an
estimated income of about US$9.6 million equivalent and total assets of US$84
million equivalent including net fixed assets of US$30 million equivalent.
Topsoe is a well known Danish chemical plant design and process development
company. Founded in 1940 by Dr. Haldor Tops6e, and reorganized into a limited
company in 1972 with a share capital of Danish Kroner 30 million (US$5.6 mil-
lion equivalent), the company is engaged in chemical process development and
licensing, process engineering, detailed engineering, catalyst research and
manufacture, as well as consulting and advisory services. It employs about
450 people and in 1977 had operating earnings of US$4.7 million equivalent.
Topsoe is 50% owned by Snamprogetti S. p. A. (Snam) of Italy. Snam has been
selected as the engineering firm by the sponsors; it will employ the commer-
cially proven Topsoe ammonia process. The direct selection of Snam by the
sponsors was accepted by the Association and other lenders because Snam's
contract price and services in 1978 compared very favorably with the proposals
evaluated in 1976 for the Fauji-Agrico Project. This earlier competition and
evaluation process provided a good basis for establishing the reasonableness
and competitiveness of the Snam proposal.
38.       Within FFC's organization which will supervise the engineering and
construction firms selected (Snam and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Coming
S.p.A.), Topsoe will have prime responsibility for project execution. Anic
S.p.A. of Italy, a major manufacturer of fertilizers and petroleum products
(like Snam, a company within the wholly Government-owned ENI Group), has been
retained to assist the FFC plant during the initial three years of operation.
Under a technical agreement with FFC, Topsoe will provide for a reasonable fee
their current and future know-how relating to engineering, design, procurement,
and marketing and will also assist in training FFC's personnel. Anic, in addi-
tion to acting as the operating company, will provide assistance in all pre-
operating phases regarding design, engineering, pre-start-up and commissioning.
James Chemical Engineering (JCE), in its role as Owner's Representative, has
carefully reviewed the activities of Snam to date and will continue to do so
to assure appropriate supervision of Snam.
39.       In full operation, the project will employ about 660 people.  Be-
cause of the rapid expansion of Pakistan's fertilizer industry, the majority
of the skilled work force would have to be trained. To this end, FFC has
arranged for Anic to provide training of Pakistani personnel. Key Pakistani
personnel will also be attached to the engineering firm during the engineering
and procurement stages and to major suppliers during equipment manufacture.
Further training needs will arise during the final stages of plant construc-
tion and during start-up and commissioning. It has been agreed that by
December 31, 1978, FFC will submit to the Association a training program
which it will implement after obtaining agreement from the Association
(Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement). The Association will be
consulted on the appointment of FFC's Chairman and Managing Director and of
its Assistant Managing Director (Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 14 -
Marketing
40.       Based on a transportation and marketing study, FFC plans to market
about 80% of its sales in the Punjab. The remainder will be sold in Sind
Province. Prior to plant start-up, FFC will undertake a two-year seeding
(market and marketing development) program. It has been agreed that by
September 30, 1978, the Government and FFC will develop a seeding program and
that the Government will allow FFC to obtain sufficient local or imported
fertilizer for this purpose (Section 3.04 of the draft Credit Agreement).
41.       The Government recognizes that, because of the variety of factors
and linkages affecting fertilizer use, there is a need for more effective
review and coordination of policies and programs in the fertilizer sector,
particularly in pricing, marketing margins and credit. There is also a need
for sound statistical data and a more effective organizational framework
to coordinate, within the Government decision-making machinery, fertilizer
policies and programs. The Government has, therefore, recently set up a
Fertilizer Planning Committee (FPC) to examine these matters and to review
its findings with the Association (Section 3.03 of the draft Credit Agreement).
At present, retail dealers receive a commission of PRs 40/ton, which may not
provide adequate incentives for them to undertake a vigorous marketing effort,
particularly to reach more remote areas and smaller farmers. The Government
has agreed to consult with the Association from time to time regarding the
adequacy of dealer's margins (Section 3.08 of the draft Credit Agreement)
and intends to request the FPC to review this matter on a priority basis.
42.       FFC plans to transport about 50-60% of its output by truck for
distances up to 300 miles and the remainder by rail. Pakistan's present and
prospective fertilizer plants located near the Mari gas field will make heavy
demands on the country's rail transportation facilities. The Government has
established a Fertilizer Transportation Task Force, consisting of representa-
tives of GOP and of the railways and fertilizer companies, to formulate, based
on a recent transportation study, detailed action programs and to supervise
their implementation. The Government will ensure that Pakistan Railways pro-
vide the required number of trains to transport FFC's output (Section 3.05 of
the draft Credit Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
43.       Total financing required is estimated at US$260.3 million, of which
US$158.8 million is in foreign exchange. The project is exempt from import
duties. Physical contingencies have been provided at 5% for equipment and
10% for civil works, handling and freight. Price escalation for equipment has
been calculated at 7.5% during 1978/79 and 7% thereafter. On civil works,
escalation rates of 15% per annum during 1978/79 and 12% thereafter have been
assumed because of the overstretched state of the heavy construction industry,
particularly in remoter areas of Pakistan. The cost estimates include initial
working capital requirements of US$12.7 million and interest during construc-
tion totalling US$21 million. A summary table of the cost estimates is shown
in the Credit and Project Summary.



- 15 -
44.       The base financing plan is as follows (in US$ million equivalent):
Local  Foreign   Total
Equity
Fauji                                27.6       -       27.6
Topsoe                                 1.8     3.2       5.0
IFU                                   1.8      3.2       5.0
IDB                                    -      10.0      10.0
Pakistan Financial Institutions    30.3         -       30.3
and Commercial Banks
61.5    16.4      77.9
Debt
IDA                                    -      55.0      55.0
USAID                                  -      40.0      40.0
KfW                                    -      40.0      40.0
Italian Government                     -       7.4       7.4
Pakistan Financial Institutions
and Commercial Banks               40.0       -      40.0
40.0   142.4    182.4
Total              101.5   158.8    260.3
Although US$260.3 million is the best estimate of total project costs at the
present time, arrangements have been made for possible cost overruns. Under
a contingent financing plan totalling US$272.0 million, cost increases would
be financed by additional equity contributions of US$1.6 million from Fauji
(bringing its total equity contribution to US$29.2 million equivalent) and
US$0.2 million each from Topsoe and IFU (raising each of their contribution
to US$5.2 million equivalent), additional equity from local banks and addi-
tional loans from the Danish and Italian Governments and local banks.
Cost increases beyond the amount covered by the contingent financing plan
would be financed partly by Snam under the guaranteed price provisions of
their contract (see para 34) and any remainder by the Government.
45.       FFC's share capital will be paid in pari passu with loans to main-
tain a debt/equity ratio of 70/30 (Section 4.06(a) of the draft Project
Agreement). This is relatively high for a new company building a grass-roots
plant with associated infrastructure, and having to repay its debt on an equal
principal basis. However, the Marketing and Pricing Principles Agreement
between FFC and the Government provides the company with enough liquidity
from the first year of operation to enable it to service its debt without
difficulty. Moreover, USAID has agreed that its loan be subordinated to those
of other lenders until the debt/equity ratio reaches 50/50, which is expected
to be achieved during the fourth year of operation. The USAID loan has been
committed. The KfW loan is expected to be signed in September 1978. The
commitment of the Pakistan financial institutions and commercial banks has
already been obtained. The remainder of the foreign exchange requirements
would be met by an Italian Government loan and, in the event of cost escala-
tion, a loan from the Danish Government. The IDA credit will become effective
after agreements covering loans from AID, KfW and the group of commercial



- 16 -
banks and equity contributions from Fauji, Topsoe, the Consortium of Pakistan
banks and financial institutions, IFU and IDB have been signed. Disbursements
from the proposed IDA credit would, however, be limited to US$2 million equiv-
alent until all loan and equity agreements have become effective. All foreign
loans will be relent to FFC for 15 years, including four years grace, at 10%
p.a., a rate comparable to that charged by local financing institutions for
long-term foreign-currency loans. FFC will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Since 1975 wholesale prices have risen an average of 8% per year; inflation
during the next three years is expected to be only slightly less severe.
Procurement and Disbursement
46.       Foreign loans will be used to finance imported services and equip-
ment. Local expenditures will be financed by local funds and partly by
Topsoe's and IFU's equity, after competitive bidding. The balance of Topsoe's
and IFU's as well as IDB's equity, together with the Italian credit, will
finance engineering, licenses, technical assistance and training. USAID's
loan, which is tied, would finance equipment and JCE's fees. The balance of
imported services and equipment will be financed by the Association and KfW
on a parallel basis. Except as mentioned below, international competitive
bidding procedures (ICB), in accordance with Bank Group guidelines, will be
used for equipment and materials to be financed by the Association. Process-
critical and proprietary equipment and items in limited supply to be financed
by the IDA credit (estimated to cost US$6.0 million in total) will be pur-
chased following bidding from qualified suppliers, which have been approved by
the Association. In addition, items costing less than US$100,000 each, up to
a total of US$3.0 million, may be purchased through international shopping.
The IDA credit will be disbursed to meet 100% of foreign expenditures for
imported equipment and services and 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured equipment awarded after ICB. Qualified Pakistani manufacturers
participating in international bidding would be accorded a preference of 15%
or the prevailing import duties whichever is lower. Local manufacturers are
expected to supply not more than US$1 million equivalent (less than 2% of the
IDA credit). Up to US$1 million of the IDA credit will be used for retroac-
tive financing expenditures prior to the date of the Credit Agreement.
Financial Covenants
47.       As already noted, prices of fertilizer in Pakistan are controlled
by the Government; ex-factory prices are set on a case-by-case basis with the
aim of allowing a reasonable return on each manufacturer's investment. For
the proposed FFC project, FFC entered into a Marketing and Pricing Principles
Agreement with the Government which provides that the ex-factory price for
urea will be set, for a period of 10 years following the commencement of com-
mercial operations, so as to yield a 16% annual after-tax return on the par
value of preferred shares (to be held by Pakistan financial institutions and
banks) and a 20% annual after-tax return on the par value of common shares,
provided the plant operates at 65% of capacity in the first year of operation,
85% in the second year, and 90% from the third year onwards, based on 315
operation days a year. FFC will bear the production and sales volume risk
and will only realize the above returns if it sells at or above annual levels



- 17 -
stipulated in the agreement. The agreement also contains two major provi-
sions to induce the sponsors to mur'mize project cost. First, there will
be a ceiling on the ex-factory price of urea should capiLal costs increase
beyond US$272 million (i.e. by more than 520 above the pr2sent cost estimate),
which is considered an upper limit for project cost if eLficiently executed.
Secondly, funds borrowed from or through the Government -o finance cost
overruns in excess of US$272 million will be repaid by FiC prior to any
dividend payment.
48.       To ensure sound financial management of FFC, il has been agreed
that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, FFC will:
(a)  not make additional investments in fixed assets outside the
project exceeding US$5 million equivalent per year plus
unutilized balances of previous years, or cumulatively,
a maximum of US$15 million in any one year (Section 4.04
of the draft Project Agreement);
(b) not exceed a debt/equity ratio of 70/30 (Section 4.06 (a)
of the draft Project Agreement);
(c) achieve a current ratio of at least 1.5 at the project com-
pletion date and 1.2 thereafter (Section 4.06 (b) of the
draft Project Agreement) and will not incur any additional
long-term debt if a debt service coverage ratio of at least
1.4 cannot be maintained in the succeeding fiscal years
(Section 4.06 (c) of the draft Project Agreement); and
(d) pay dividends only out of accumulated net earnings and
no dividend or any other distribution with respect to
share capital will be paid unless a current ratio of
at least 1.5 is maintained after such payments (Section
4.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
In addition, Fauji and Topsoe have agreed that they will take all necessary
measures to ensure that FFC performs its obligations under the Project and
other Agreements (Section 2 of the draft Fauji Topsoe Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
49.       The estimated financial rate of return on the project as a whole is
21% before taxes and 14% after taxes. The economic rate of return of the
project is estimated at 23%. These rates of return are sensitive to changes
in fertilizer prices, capital cost, delays in completion of construction and
capacity utilization. However, even under the unlikely combination of the
most adverse foreseeable circumstances, they remain satisfactory. One impor-
tant benefit of the project would ": substantial savings in foreign exchange.
The average annual savings, after payment of dividends to foreign shareholders
and royalties and fees to Topsoe and Anic, are estimated at US$79 million in
1978 terms. The project would also have unquantified benefits of management
training, assured fertilizer supplies, and development of a marketing
organization.



- 18 -
50.       Project design, which will meet environmental and safety standards
satisfactory to IDA, will be based on modern commercially proven technology,
thus minimizing technical risks. The plant will be built by an experienced
engineering firm, which has the incentive to minimize cost, and will be man-
aged and operated with the assistance of experienced partners and advisors
who combine the knowledge of local conditions with technical and marketing
experience and whose return is sensitive to capital cost, timely completion
and capacity utilization. Because of inflationary pressure in Pakistan, there
is some risk of price escalation beyond the US$26.5 million equivalent pro-
vided in the cost estimates and an additional US$11.7 million has been secured
on a stand-by basis from the sponsors, local financial institutions and Danish
and Italian Governments. The Government will provide, on terms satisfactory
to the Association, funds to cover costs in excess of US$272 million. The
forecast of fertilizer demand is based on conservative assumptions, but there
is a risk that demand for fertilizer will not grow at the projected rates if
the Government pursues adverse agricultural pricing and other policies. The
promotion of agricultural development figures prominently in the Bank's
dialogue with the Government of Pakistan. There will also be a slight sales
risk during the first three years of operation when domestic nitrogenous
fertilizer production is expected to exceed demand by a small amount. The
plant, however, is expected to be able to export any surplus output profitably.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and FFC, the draft Agreement between the Association, Fauji,
Topsoe and Anic and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
separately.
52.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the draft
Credit Agreement) include the signing of the USAID Agreement, the KFW Agree-
ment, the agreement to be entered into by the consortium of Pakistan financial
institutions and banks, the Fauji Topsoe Agreement, the IFU Agreement, the IDB
Agreement, the Participation and the Shareholders' Agreements (between Fauji
and Topsoe). No withdrawals from the Credit in excess of an aggregate of
US$2 million equivalent may be made until these agreements, as well as the
Danish loan and Italian credit agreements, have become effective.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
August 16, 1978



- 20 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
PAKISTAN                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      803.9                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     244.5                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           INDIA          THAILAND       TURKEY**
_ -_------_  -------- -------     --_-----_    -----_   -----__--  ------  _-----------
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     60.0      110.0     170.0               100.0       210.0       500.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           45.3      59.8       71.3               547.6        36.3       35.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       56.0      74.0       89.0               167.0       71.0        46.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      198.0      246.0    292.0                308.0       263.0        65.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         49.2       47.6      47.4               41.0        44.3        40.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          26.3       20.1      16.5                19.0       13.7        14.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       142.0/a8b 124.3      113.0                  ..       80.0       153.0/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       42.1      47.4       49.8               47.2        55.5        54.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2        3.7       3.6                 2.9        3.2         2.6/b,C
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.3        2.9       3.0                2.3         3.1         2.5
URBAN                                 5.0        4.0       3.9                3.2         4.9         4.9tt
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          22.5       24.8      26.0                19.8        15.0       38.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42  /ac 43C   4                         41.6        45.1        41.7
15 TO 64 YEARS                       52.0:/a    52.7        ..               55.3        51.8        54.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                     6.0        3.9         ..                3.1        3.1         4.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0 9/a c   0.9          ..                0.8        0.9         0 9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1I7: i   1.6/a                            I i.1 /a    t.:9/      1:,/e
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         *-        .-            14585.0       470.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..         ..                 ,,       10.0         8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        13000.0   18100.0   20400.0            218000.0    16700.0Lh 140D.0. Lf
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         59.0      57.0       54.8               69.0        79.0        63.4
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            ..         ..         .                4Z4 L,        ..       11.9 t
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECID BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            20.3 3     17.8      17.3               25.0 .      22.0        326
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            45.3.4    41.8       41.5                53.1 /C    51.1/C      60.6
LOWEST  20X OF HOUSEHOLDS             6.4 Li    *.0        8.4                4,7 /C      5.6 I       2.9
LOWEST  40  OF HOUSEHOLDS           17.5 .Z   20.2       20.6               13.1 /C    14.3          9.4
DISTRI8UTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
_  __     _     __  __ --- _     _  __  _     _ --  _  _  _  _ 
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS           46.2         ..         ,.,0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS          0.4         ..07i
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             7450.0/&  431O.O/b  3910.0/a            4890.0      7970.0      2250.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       14860.07W 844O.079  7180 07a b           5220.0tg  6650.0        1770.0A
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          2070.07;  1870.0    1850.0s 1610.                    890.0       500.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        80.0       94.0       93.0               92.0       103.0       112.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             48.5         ..      5U.0                53.0        52.0        78.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        1?6/a.   14.0/c   14.3                    16.0       17.0/d      22.O/k
bEAT' RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..       17.4/d       ..                 ..         ..1
EDUCA ION
ADJUSTEU ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      30.0       44.0       51.0               63.0        81.0       109.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    11.0       14.0       15.0               30.0        16.0        28.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECONO LEVEL)             1O.O/k    10.0/6    10.0/C              12.0        12.0        1t.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      1.0       1.5        1.5                  ..       14.0/e      14.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                16.0/1    20.0       21.0                33.0        79.0       55.0/rn
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                3.1/m       *          ..                2.8          ..         1.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                        ..         ..         ..                 ..          . .      64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRIC4TY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..        ..                  ..          ..       41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..       18.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)-         6.0          .      15.0                21.0        7B.0        89.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           1.0        3.0        3.0                1.0         5.0         4.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           22.0       67.0      137.0              114.0       124.0       247.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)              0'/a  n   0.6/C       0.3                0.3         1.0         0.7
SEE NOTE  AND D-EFT-------------I-----O--R---E-------------------------I----------------------- -----
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 21 -
NOTES~~~~~~~~~NON
ULess o:.therwise noted, dote for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for Most Rerent Estimate between
1973 ad 1976.
00  Turkey baa been, aeIlcted aaa   bjective o-nutry for Pakistan sine. the natural resoercee, agricultural hbasia and eooialefficient
prodootion and tnv..earnt proaranoare likely to be similar in both countries.  Moreover, Turkey and Pakistan hav asomilar religions  and
cultural baokgrownde, with nany of the oas social and cultural barriers ta ond.anination with Turkey being Oscsewhat ahead in, this procesa.
PAKISTAN    i96i    Ia  Tuciodra data for Bangladesh;    lb  1962-65;    .c  ixcclading frontier regions;    /d  15-59 and 60 years and over respectively;
/g  Retio of population under 15 sod 65 and over is tetal labor fence;    If  1963-64;    La  Reglstered, mar all practicing in the
.-try0;    /h  Includes. nidwivss;    Ai  Including dispensaries;    LT  1960-62;    lk  Up to roatricolatiec  (10th grads);
/1 yasrsaend over; the aility no read with undarstanding a short statement Mon very day life  in, spy lacl enae;j                      data
rater to houceho1ds; to Figors dogs not inladed iports by lend.
1970    /afoti  of populatIon under 15 end 65 and over is total labor force;    /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country;
-   7.W  lec1iding dats for Bangladesh:    Id  Enlodiga population ef D.1. Than cud Pssha-a  Divisiene;    Is Tp cc oacrlculstinn
(10th grade).
MOST ORENTM ESTIMATE:    /0  Registered, not all pr...ricing in the country;    lb  T1o1sdingource-dafdwvra;    It  Op to natricolation
(10th grade).
INDIA        1970    /cotio of population coder 15 end 65 and Over to total loabr force age 15 cod over;    /b  Eatimeted by National  Sample Survy,
In toc onfv the average ounher of person Necks of onenpIn)yert as perce..tege of  ntotl peranon /weehe in, the total labor force;
1o967-69;    Id  lnludinf nidwivee.
THAILANDh   1970    Ia  Otio of population cadet 15 and 65 sand ovan to e.non-ically active popalation - age 11 and over;    /b  Econoanioally active
__  _population age 11 cnd over;    Ic  Rural only;    Id  1964-66b    Is  Public schools, whinh includes rechntcl'educstian at
the poot-secodary level.
TRKNiEY      1970    I   1967;    /b  tEoludee 17 eastern provinces;    /n  1965-67;    Id  1965-70;    Is  Ratio of population coder 15 and 65 and over
______  ____    __to total laboar force;   I/f  Civilian labor force;    /a  Inluding Peak season agricultural underemployment;    /6  Disposable
mouswe (1966) ;    /   Agricultural land (1973), ignoring landless bouaseholds;         Ij  Including assistant nurses and midwives;
Lk 1964-6,6; /1 1967-68; _/n Person sic years and aver who tell the caseus takers that they can read and write..
R13, may 12, 1978
DmEIuWO Of BQIUL DIDICATOR
Land Are ithe  _e2)                                                                          P-elatiLsn ft. norsin  se.so   - Population diolded by noeber of praticing
Total- Total surface area comprising leand area and island wasters,                            mle sad female graduaste nurses, "trained" or "CertifiRed" unures, sand
Agric.-  Moat recent estimate of ogfutrlare  awed iaoporarily at par,s-                        axeiliarY personnel with trafaing on exe,prience.
neatly for crops, pastures, nrket 6kitchen gardns or to ha. follmw.                        Poeslatiem ea ibseal bed - Pspulatinn divided by saber of hospioti heda
avial   spbic and Privts general sand speniallzed hospital and
iMP en cotta(000   -  NP Per- ..pit. astiesstes at current sacht Prices,                 rahabilitatifn Renters; excludea nursieg homes end etatblishesents far
caolmdby a-  nono-rion method asa Woand Book Atlas (1974-76 basis);                    asatediaI ad pevea.tiva osre.
1960; 1970 and 1976 deta.                                                                    r capiat    el  ccalci:.%  t eairm-ts5  - Computed teem energy
equvalnt  f mt fed  uppiesavila:ble is  oeustry per capita per dsy;
Population and vital stetistice                                                                avaitaha aupplies mompriss domesi  prduatio. imPerta, lea. separis, and
Population (mid-year mIlion) - Anof July fi"ap:  if eat avaIlable, syctag                     Changes in stack; met supplies exclude anial feed, seeds, quantities used
of twa end-year estimates; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data.                                         ia feed processing end Iass.. in distribution; reqeireests were eatieted
by FAO baead ee physiatogical masdate normael activity ad health comaid-
Ponulottoc dteait, - par eooars he  - Mid-yea  population. por square kil amss                 sting smeiraoental tosaperat,,rs, body saight, age and se. distribtciee  af
(100 hectares) of Catol area.                                                                pepulatilso, ad allseeg lOt far waste at household level.
Population, density - Par aeqarels a f geric, land - Esutad aso babov  fee                   Pa  aia ed    t orR  foram   ear day) - Pesate. courntest  Patpr naples
agitnloland only.                                                                     ma.t uppty effeeda pe e; met supply of food Is defined se abeve; require-
mentse fall. csuetrias esatablished by USDA Eceameo Research Se,vife-
pital statiatios                                                                               provide fat a mdLatesin alloweance at 60) grew. at total preteke pee day, and
Crude birth rate par thmsaand, ovrage - Amnes1 live hints per thousand at                      20 gslatm-  animal and poles pnatain. at which 10 gr-s should benia
mid-year  population; tnyaeritoasetic averages -ding is 1960 and 1970,                       Prtotai; rheas standards are, lamer thee thoss of 75 gems  of tstal protein
and five -year averag  ending in 1975 far emat recent setimsate.                             and 23 geese- at aimal pretein as an average fat the world, Preposed.by PAD
Crude deaat rate ear th-au nd. average - Annual. deathe per thousand o at md-year,             in tha Third Wlorld Fead Survey. 
papuletian; ten-year aritesetlc averages ending in 1960 and 1970 end f in-                 Pa aiaeeemas                  rmeimel end Pulse - Protein sapply af teed
year averag  ending in 1970 for most rec..ant estimate,                                      dervdfoonmasadple  in gin sper day.
Infeant aertaliry rate 0/thaul    Annatl destba at imfsta uandar ens pear at  gag            Death rats (Itheul eRe- 1-4 - Anneal dsthe Per thousad in sea group 1-i
per thb.a.a.d live births.                                                                   years , to children 19 this age group; suggested as em indicator of
Litte a..eceenY at birth (yr.) -Avera.ge ounber of peace at life resaOsiniaso atale,trition.
birth;, usually f ives-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 tar develop-
tag nonns.EducatIon
Drre   preerdu_ctiam rate, - Average oa-brofa live daughtrer  a comae will boar              Ajseeniuatrio-pmryscohol - Rarallmant of all ages as Par-
in bee  o-na  reproductive period if abs eaperienca  prvaemt age-apacifc                    canfg  oprmyshe-aepeplatia; includse nhild-m  aged 6-lI yeses
fertility rates; usually five-year enrages ending is 1960, 1970 and 1973                     but adjusted fat diffa-rst Iengths at primary edccecio; tar cousries with
for dvleping coutries.                                                                       universsl educatime, enainllmet may sexceed 1% sine suew  pupils are balso,
Po ainarmed, rats it) - total - Compound annutal growth -atas aft md-year                at abase  th. eg inial school age.
poPulation fo at1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                              Adutdspnla t eRe-   seeondary sohenl - t'pmsatd as shav; eanedary
Ppoelatnon areth rate (X  - urban - Computed like greth eats of total                          adustim  rqures at laset four yearsa  appenwed primary- Instruction;
paplation; di fferat defini-sin   of urban arses may afgect comparability at                Provides general, vacational at teachar traimig Instructions far pupils
dat  amnconcia.a  12 to 17 years at ajpp; corrsponsmdaq   ora   B   aaal   eldd
Urban P=claio 0i7. attoal) - Ratio at urant teisl Papuletion; diffsrent                      Yasetor f    aln  reie (first an  4end levels) - Total yeasr. g
defiaitiaaa of urbsa erae  may afsot comarability of dsta anang coutries.                    shalg  attseneday   val, vesatenJ im_tnstia  my be partially a
sc"1ataly axcleded.
dee arootta fsromm) -Children, (0-14 years), weoftia-aga (13-64 years),              Yaaimlerian   t  tscdr)-Pcranliaiafm    sld
Andl retired (f65 yaa. an   ve)a  parcatagas ef mid-yeas  populaiaoin.  -                     tehia,idsra=rahrpoe   chitch aprate Redap4adancl  at as
AR. desend-sy ratis  - Ratio of Population undsr 15 sold 65 end over to chess                  departments, of asos_dary Rtin,    fsa
ZRof  rs15trug   4                                                                          AdulRItiree rae (1   -Litarata adults (able ta read and write) aa par-
nonenic dpeodnov rtis    Rata ofpoplatin under 11 and 63 and awr to                  cetg   ftoa   dl   oplto   gd i  pasts end aver.
tbs labor force in age gr-ep of 15-64 yeasr.
lankly olnii-eceeaf,sitv.tel-tmusslati-s neshr at acptove                                   aio..iL
of birth-sset-1i delcs oadsr ..cepices at natiemal fesly Planslng program                  Praaertm  ubn   - Average mnbr of persona par rcae in acuiad
since inception.                                                                            cneinadwlngRnrban are...; dwellings aclud.a ne-pateanent
pasil oteciog- uses ftat mrrie woan     -Preatagas af oarrisd wassa at                atrciuca sand  -n-,pisid prts
child-heaing ~age4 (115-44 ~Year)who  s  bieth-coutral devices, to all marrisd            Oore  wlig   iha oa  sa  'i-Oope   svsinldciig
wesn is aas age group.                                                                       iuraanrularawihtisds or a ptada piedwtr  sIiiaa.
EmaL1Y___R_t                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~as percentage - at all.anpiad dwal1inga.
ftraleyso                                                                                   Acetitealapriciy ftofnaluddsingasad             Conventionsl dwellinga with
.oa -lprfoc lihaayed  -u aludngoiel  ashes_.   pesn,icuigswd                             lcrct   nlvn  quarter. as Parcent of total dwellings Is urb,an sd
fornue sod uemployed ba  estotadinghanaecivea,audeots, etc.; dafinltiona        rural areas.
is v-rio- c.oanrosa sea co  ospa-bla                                                       ualdelia oomatd o lciie (.   -Cn.                    pucda   bv   a   ua
Lahor force insnolue(1              .gicrllbor, fract  (in fanning, torestey,                  dwlings  nY.                                          -    .bw    a    ..
basting and fihag   a  ecetg   of totallabor force.
5(1)96fl!oved it at la~~bor farce)   Unemployd  -rsusully dafimd as Persona wha    ton-emtion
are able ad willin:g ta tkbe a        Mo, tu 07 a job on a  iven fey, reanad out          Raiteavr  er-thasna-p) - All types at receivers foe -adi. broadamata
of a job, and  aseking work furaaeiidmnm    eee   e   eedn   u                            Ato  ers  pulcPer thousand of Papulation;.. slolds. unicensed renei-ar
ek; may rot be loc,p-cbla between coatrias des ta differest datefi.1iuns                   iscusr    and in pearst  whea registration at radia sacs was in affect;
of  .acpIoved and source at data, e.g., employment office statitics, samPle                data fur recant years may not he  ompracble since east csartris  abolished
suvys, cOpalsry uneploynan  in...ra.n..ticensing.
111-   dItIblill - -  I                                                       I~~~~~~~Pessga or.fet ho ca   - Psaanger ours. comprise eotsfr cars aseating
loo'os dtao-0bcicsprc ta :t5  c  priva  te imooe (both is nash and kind)              lTessthas, sight Pereou; selude  mablsoes  hoarae and military
rece.ived by riohast 17., rchet20%, poorst lit, and pooreat 40% at h-ous-                    heblle..
balds.                                                     ilsortloity Okeb/vo per cas)  -~~~~~~~~ ~ ...oel n-Samapriem  of industrial, cins-oisl,I
Diotrib.tiu.                                                            .1,11.~~~~~~~~~~~pali  and private eleotricity in kilmawti hour  per capita, genrally
_itrbaio  oflrdaorei          Poccenoages of land noted by ecaltbiest 10%              hpsasd on pradacties data, witkoselmet      c  farels.  ngid    e   lo-
and poorest 107% of land oweetrs.                                                           Roe far imparts and expartts of al-triniity.              ..   -Si.btal
Stealth_sod Nutrition~                                                                         esimtdrrm   omsic               cpita  ansul tanaceptian in kilograms
P`eoc4Laco proran           - Populatiss divided by mache at praticingaoat.    i."t mot    fa.pjt
phyairisra qualified free a nedicl1 scheel at universty leve..



-22 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMlC DRWVLOI 87T DA:A
(A-ount. n MIllions of U.S. Dollr,)
II t             7aEll 73z..Eetod                     1975        19771-       197811-       193
1975        17.96       1977           197         1983           21 19                     93           988            1977        1978        i983
t "1977 Pries-  *d Kthan.e Rate.                             Atetaoe Annool Crooth Rates                          As Prrc-t of COY
44720NAL ACCO41TS
.-tog  corNotc Prndoct                                           14,227       14,452     14,709          15,710      20,729            1.7         9.8          5.7          4.4           100.0       100.2        99.9
oos fro- Tere.oflTrado                                             -300     _ 264              _            -36         nil
Co -ns Gonstlt foco-                                               13,927      14,1i       14,709         15,674      20,740            2.8         6.6          5.8          4.4           l00.0       100.0       100.0
2-port, f-ci. NTS                                                  2,430        2,549      2,933           3,405       3,488            9.8       16.1           0.S          3.5            19.9        21.7        16.8
-f xr. rts t  1. NF5 (toport <"- o tty3                    1 192       1. 9        1,405          1,656      2.,299            8.5        17.9          6.8          5.0             9.6        10.6         11.1
Rec...te Cap                                                        1,238       1,160      1,9528          1,749       1,189           11.1        14.5         -7.5          2.8            10.3        11.2          5.9
C:rtapttot Eopett ditte                                            13,046      13,033     13,497          14,400      28,235            1.7         6.7          4.8          4.2            91.0        91.9        97.9
.-v.stvntt topondi Nor,. (Iec. sooks)                             1,929       2,642       2,740          3,055       3,683           19.2        11.9          3.8          3.9            18.6         19,5        17.8
VC:,stlo Sactaga                                                      81       1,155      1,212           1,306      2,506            17.3         7.8         13.9          5.4             0.2        12.1        17.0
I ttoai SatiNg.                                                      991      1,345       1,634           2,053       3,163           28.3        25.6          9.0          3.5            11.1        15.0        15.3
:3R HANDISE TRAOD                                                            A-n-Il Dat, a  Correct Price                                    A-erane Atros  Growth Ratre                        As Perrrnt of Total
loportt 
Capttal Goode                                                       621         723        884           1,076      1,660            19.3        21.7          9.1         01.1            03.4        24.4        34.9
nt-eccediste Goods (soti. fol.)                                     799         651         799            813      1,200             0.0         1.8          8.1         12.0            30.2        26.0        25.2
of  ihlth, fer-ttlier                                              97          56         63             142          35         _20.0       125.5        -24.0            -              2.4         4.5         0.7
POL.                                                                350         357         All            486         612           10.8        18.2          4.7         102             10.0        10.5        10.9
Gorcuptloo Ooode                                                    837         399         2432           37d9        600          -23.0 o8     63. 4         9.0         14.04            0. Id8     1'2.          . ]Z 7
Other Inporta'                                                      130         209         319            375         681           90.0        17.6         17.8          9.0            12.1        12.0        14.4
Got-i trrthandtse Irporte (t..f.)                                 2,322       2,341      2,645           3,129       4,762            6.8        18.3          8.7         11.7           100.0       100.0       100.0
Eoport.
oas cotton                                                          159          99          30            110         302          .43.0       266.7         30.0          6.9             2.6         8.2        10.7
Cotton raro                                   88         144        1~~      ~     ~~~~        ~~~~         ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~                ~~~~2 3  118  247  .19.6  .4.1  10.9  13.4  00.6  98  0.7
ctot   Cloth                                                        133         130         162            168         29            10.4         3. 7        12.0         13.4            14.2        12.6        10.5
IrsI                                                              233         250         250            230         596            3.6        -8.0         21.0          9.1             21.9        17.2        21.0
others                                                              367         539         576            712      1.391            25.0        23.6         14.3         16.2            50.5        53.2        49.1
Total nerthandiae Eport. (fot)                                      978       1,162      1,141           1,338      2,832           15.7        17.2          16.2         14.1           100.0       105.0       100.0
:c-h-rdiAe Trade ldio..                                                             Aea. 1977 .10
Etport Prire lode,                                                 83.9        83.9      100.0           106.0      151.7             9.2         6.0          7.4          6.9
onpart Petoe Index                            105.0       ~~~~~      ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~9:9.  100.0  100.0  150.9  .2.5   0.5          6.0          7.0
Ter=s of Trida                                                     79.9       84.3       100.0            97.7      100.5           11.9        .2.3          0.6           0.1
RAPOn  of VGats,, lnde,                                           105.4      121.3       100.0           113.9      164.8           _2.5        )3.9           7.7          6.8
VALUE ADDED 8Y SECTOR                                                   Aentul Data at 1977 Frttss nd Ethngee Rttes                          Avera-e Ano-l CroSh RO-tee                        A, Pertent of Toal
grti4tr                                                           4,121      4 306       4,446           4,783      5,989             3.9         6.4          4.6          4.2            33.0        33.6        31.5
'aoofantoriog                                                    2,840       2,965       2,929          3,090       4,333            1.5         51.5         7.0          B.0            21.9         21.7        23.9
Other sectors                                                     5.804      5,974      5.985           6,377       8374             1.5         6.5          5.6          0.9             44.0        44.8        44.7
rotal                                                           12,765      13,245      13,360         14,250      18,696            2.3         8.1          5.6          5.9           100.0       100.0       100.0
LCOLIC FINANCE                                                         A-nual D tc   t 1977 Price, . nd tochanas OAtea                       Aterhsa  Aena1 Grott  Rate,                       An Porro-c of 000
loottroi Gonerno,eit)l/
C -      Rc cpns                                                 2,059       2,221       2,264               ..        ..            4.9          ..           ..           ..            15.4
C-rrnt EP-dtt-re                                                 2.451       2.502       2.30                          .            -28                                                   1
Othrt Peblia Sector..                                                             .          *-- ..         ..         ..             ..          ..             ..          ..           ..
Pnblto Sector Is-e-t.ee                                          1.370       1,539       1,754                                      13.1          ..           ..           ..            11.9
CUERENT EXPENIlIT   DETAILS                                                Actnu  lmst.                enI. f IL tI.     PtBLIc SEG07R                  At 1977 Yrices and inctatas rat,.                     % of  to1
(A     - . Total C1rrett Eorndttore9                              1975        0974        1937        1978             IWESTM7E9NT PdOG6AN              1975           1974            1977                    1975-77
Ed-catoi                                                          7.0        7.8         8.6         9.8             Soolsi Sectors                    232            308              265                       17.3
ther Social ServIces                                            18.7        12.0         8.2         7.4             Agrictul-trtI                     356            360              390                       23.7
o;ttolt-n                                                         3.2         6.1        4.6         4.1             Lndoetry   M Nttlo                238            307             479                        22.0
tIer E-tan     e-i.es                                            3.2         3.0         3.3         4.0             P-der                             090            060             257                       12
of.en.e                                                         39.7        41.6        41.4        39.0             Tr.nep. 4 c,enniooo--oc           167            2s0             344                       19.1
AdrtJInt-ti.on                                                    7.5        8.3         9.3         8.6             Othet                              87             24               19                        2. 7
OtherO/                                                         20.6        23.2        24.8        26.9
Total lopa,di-cra              1,370          1,539           1, 754                      100.0
Total Correct Elparditoro                                      100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0
Pbhiic Sefton s-nito!7/          .83            102              291                        6.7
Do=etic Onroo-ong                356             376             672                       30.1
F-ret0  Bortoeto              1J097           1061               791                       40.2
Total Ft,tctti         -       1,370          1,539            1,754                      100.0
NOte: All orors gioa  iI thi table refer to the PaRkitan tfiol ypear July I - lone 30.  The fle-al Tear - s identiffld by the calrtder yTen  i nhih It rndt.
1/  Otidoal brt.rer tco-l tnpcrts en recorded Ib  th, Stte R.ank and b7 the Otcltic-I Olivston at the Otina-ry of Ftante.
21  Oo,nidatrdfd Fedrl  nd Pro-onct]          rrl roa ene.
3/   nc.odir"  roprtdfturr on  h . Ta-bhla DR= r-jeo-.
4, .ncludre nterrat cetnoonts.
odj..ard for innee    o tt  torrent bhdgt, cratetrn of  -rpl..e and eeif-fi.Oncnt g by poblf  sector.
Sooth AtoNronrtprnt
hay 12, 1978



- 23 - --                                                                          6 6ANNU  I
PAKISTAN MIlANCE OF PAYMErN. EXTERNAL ADSIS7ANCE AND DEdr
soants in milions oi  .S. doll arm  at currcnt prices)
1973/74     1*74/75   t975176         1976717              977tU                 1978179      1979/80     1980/al      L981/82      1962/6)        [977/76 - L982t83
--111    F FA-~-- 111
SLNeNRiY icLtDlLE OF PA17116T46
1,997       2,317        2.675       3,044        3,46881.
Eopurts (-i1. NFS)                                   1,202        1,252       1,433        1,406                1,679                    _71                       4349      4691         5.266                  8.4
mports (tnct  NFS)   I 829  -1,29      _                 -6,637                  -71782       -1,724       -1.674      -1,647       -1,776
j627jij 2:5519           2.533      *4                    18379667                                                                 -,7
16    -244         -260        .2 77        -292                 11.7
trimmere  (net)                                        _80          -93        -109         -141                -141.                   -66           -64          -62          -62         -58                    -
litrect Ion, nmestnnncas. (gret)                       A38         A14          -36          -28                  -68                  1,610        1,281        1.350       1,350        1,350                   S.8
Aurbeem' Renttnsncme (gross)          138         21~ ~ ~~~ ~~3 335         578               1, 020                     00          25            -3            -          -1                   -
k-rr Faocor Seroit.   e (n t)                           12            7         _37          -12                   .2
Currrnc  Transfers  (nt) ..                                         ..t          .
C-- Tt-f- (-0        -- -        -- - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~96                                                         .49          -649    _-634            -7177-
Plalcca  on  torrent Account                          -549      -1,16B         -947       -1,052              -1.028                    _969          _T           649         _634          7774255
PrLcain  limct Innemnatant (met)                         *            -          41           45                   50                     166                       6678600   00  0D  00                          8.2
Official Uspicti Gronts (net)                           67          104          120         149                  100
DlFburs_  nt/  446  918  1,067        649               1,099                     989        1,052       1,074         ,24B6       1,20
Dtsboramssntsk'                       -107~~~~~~~~44  432      1047         -649                 -28_366                              -06         ..24         -476         -398
Net Dtsbretm-at-                                       339          786          903         480                  841                     645          652         650          670          606
Othi  r46LT Lo a.                                                                                                                          30           30          30           30           30
DisborssOetta                                        ...        . ...         ... .         .                    5                        3          -2           -2 -2                     2
Nrt ibrsm,tta                                                                                                    1.                      27_             .        ..        _            - 2 8  28  28 28
Ner Di.b.rtm-t.
Capital Tranmactions n.n.i.-2/                          40          371          49          180
Chans It   lit RssnvT   s ( inTrte.)                   103          -93        _166          198
Actual               -
RAcuT   Aol LutN  00684ITlEN11N                                                                                                    SUIT  AID DEBT SERVICE                            1973/74      1974/75     1973/76      197/57
Officia1 GOrnte                                           3          39           24         164                   '       -           t-lm   De tDots. A  D     bt4/                6,521       6,893        3D5          6,641
mtnnonPoblic Dnbt4/                          86          935         149          141
Poblic MALT Lo-ns                                                                                                                   Ptal 60on  Dobt St.i1                              187          2 135253                  3149
IDM                                                   60          60           so           70                                    Tat-DebtohI Sabi- Srnln18.28                                                03 
1DA                                                   53          82          108           94                                    Tth r Debt Sennia  (.nt)                          18i          2i8          253          310
Other Mtttilltsr-l                                    82           71         119           94
Gorsr,osni/                                          973          572         679          43                                   oardn AK EIpact Earnings (2)2/
Suppliers                              ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~15         4 2           -15f
FircOal Insitttian                                                 22          16            -                                    Poblic Debt Samvi                                 13.8        15 4         14.3         l5.4
P nc-_                                                                    Tatal Debt Se-ni-a
PBli                                                                                                                             t   snei        ........- T.... -SD  Dict I-Vt. Ine
Total PMblit MHLT Loans                           1,241          845        1,040          865                                 A Ange Tsem   of Public Debt
l.tet,a .   Prior l..r 0040                       1.9          2.1          2.2          2.5
Antoal Debt OWtst-ndtya  o  June  30. 1977                                      Anr.   e t   Prior  Yetr D0OD                      2.5          3.0          3.0          2.9
Disborand  Onlo             Percent
EXTERb'AL DEFT                                                          LaDE  Dabt. Sons. A Disbursed                         299          257          305          330
EXTERHAL. DEBT                                                                                                                     DM0) as I  olcDb                                      6.6          53           5.4          5.3
LIBD Dabi Service                                    52.5        44.9         39.6         56.5
IED                                                            330                      5                                        IEitD  s I Public Debt Setvica                       28.1        19.7         15.5         18.2
DIA                                                            597                     t0
Othern Mnitilt.a.l                                             162                       3                                       ID  Debt Dot. I Dlsborand                             465          471          506          597
Govrrs_nst                                                   4,978                      79                                       ID, as % Poblic 0bD   06D                            10.3          9.6          8 9          9.5
Suppliers                                                      103                      2                                        "N  Debt Service                                      4.2          5.7          5.7          3 8
Ftri-tiol Institutioos                                           92                      1                                       IA  a. P Doblic Debt Service                          2.2          2.5          2.2          1.9
Poblic Debt.  ne-it_
Total Poblic MALT Debt                                       6,264                    100
Other rLT Debt.
Short-te     Debt (ditsb only)
Not svoilo.bls,.aSml   miaa
int av ilbls-  egliibl.
Not a_ailable  esp-rtely but it-lodd in total.                                                 L. .te    than heif the elss   -Et  bt.d
i   The figore. for 1977/78 incIds iEmpated disb-raaemt  on c- onont of dmbt relisf aIrsady agr-d   rith thn  Pakist;n Aid Cnn-orti-t
P   Ocrl1die   errors aid oesisaians
I rnclud4iDE  toeitnscs sda foe debt relief-only shoe  ebhieved through reft-ooing credits.
TiNt  f debt relief.
/7' Border  -t  -oringe Iron empprte Ilo diudg NFS and  -krees'eiisns



- 24 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of June 30, 1978)
Loan or                                                         US$ Million
Credit                                           Amount    (less cancellations)
Number   Year    Borrower         Purpose         Bank  TW  IDA       Undisbursed
Seventy loans and credits
fully disbursed /a                            537.5      478.3
621     1969   Pakistan       Railways           14.5        --           1.1
206    1970   Pakistan        Engineering
Education         --         4.0          0.7
213    1970   Pakistan        Power
Distribution      --        23.0          1.1
422    1973   Pakistan        Karachi Port III   --         18.0          2.8
961    1974   Pakistan        Industrial
Investment       25.0        --           3.8
988    1974   Pakarab         Multan
Fertilizer       Fertilizer       35.0        --           0.01
492    1974   Pakistan        Karachi Port IV    --         16.0          9.3
510    1974   Pakistan        Telecommuni-
cations III       --        36.0          4.2
1107    1975   SNGPL           Gas Pipeline IV   60.0         --          12.1
546    1975   Pakistan        Industrial
Development
(NDFC)            --       30.0          7.4



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Loan or                                                              US$ Million
Credit                                             Amount       (less cancellations)
Number   Year    Borrower          Purpose         Bank   TW    IDA   Undisbursed
1208    1976   Pakistan        Power Trans-
mission           -    50.0       -         48.4
620    1976   Pakistan        Seed                              23.0        22.3
1326    1976   PICIC           Industrial
Development      25.0              -         19.3
630    1976   Pakistan        Lahore Water II    -              26.6        25.5
648    1976   Pakistan        Irrigation and
Drainage           -             14.0        13.1
1366    1977   Pakistan        Livestock            -    10.0      -          10.0
1372/
684    1977   Pakistan        Railways           35.0           25.0        60.0
678    1977   Pakistan        Education            -            15.0        14.9
683    1977   Pakistan        Flood Reha-
bilitation         -            40.0         16.5
751    1977   Pakistan        Hill Farming         -             3.0         3.0
754    1978   Pakistan        SCARP VI /b          -           (70.0)      (70.0)
755    1978   Pakistan        Hazara Forestry /b -             ( 1.7)      ( 1.7)
771    1978   Pakistan        Tarbela II                        35.0        35.0
813    1978   Pakistan        Punjab Extension /b              (12.5)      (12.5)
TOTAL                                        732.0  60.0  786.9
of which has been repaid                     336.9  -0-    15.4
TOTAL now outstanding                        395.1  60.0  771.5
Amount sold                  23.3
of which has been repaid   22.3                1.0
Total now held by Bank
and IDA Ic                                  394.1  60.0  771.5
Total Undisbursed                             71.31 58.4  180.8         310.5
/a   Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly
for projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken
over by Bangladesh.
lb   Not yet effective and not included in totals.
/c   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of June 30, 1978)
Fiscal                                                   Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor               Type of Business         Loan    Equity   Total
1958   Steel Corp. of Pak.
Ltd                     Rolled Steel Products    0.63         --      0.63
1959   Adamjee Industries
Ltd                     Textiles                   0.75       --      0.75
1962   Gharibwal Cement        Cement
1965   Industries Ltd                                     5.25      0.42    5.67
1963-
1969-                          Development
1975   PICIC                   Financing                    --      0.52    0.52
1965   Crescent Jute
Products                Textiles                   1.84      0.11    1.95
1965   Packages Ltd            Paper Products             2.31      0.84    3.15
1967-  Pakistan Paper
1976   Corp. Ltd               Paper                      5.38      2.02    7.40
1969   Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.          Fertilizers                1.00      2.92    3.92
1969   Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd               Pulp and Paper             5.60      0.63    6.23
Total Gross Commitments                           22.76      7.46   30.22
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                      18.16      1.01   19.17
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                  4.60     6.45   11.05
Undisbursed



- 27 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
This credit is intended to help finance the repairs and additional
works required to complete the project. In September 1973, the Indus River
was diverted through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage -- the
construction of the closure section of the dam -- to be undertaken. By end-
June 1974, the main embankment had been completed to full height, and the
first impoundment began on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficul-
ties were encountered in the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one
of the tunnels necessitated the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the
tunnels and outlet structure. Agreement was reached with the parties of the
Indus Basin and Tarbela Development Funds whereby special contributions were
made by a number of parties, including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the
cost of repairs and additional remedial works. The stilling basins suffered
further damage in August 1975 and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has
now been redesigned and repaired, and operated satisfactorily during the
1977/78 irrigation season. The permanent solution for Stilling Basin 4 is
still under discussion. Serious erosion in the plunge pool below the service
spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection works. A first phase
of these was successfully completed before the current flood season. From
1975 through mid 1978, irrigation requirements have generally been met. Power
generation by the first four units began in 1977.
Loan No. 621         Ninth Railway:  US$14.5 Million Loan of June 26, 1969;
Effective Date: August 28, 1969; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The Ninth Railway Project is nearly complete; disbursements amount
to more than US$13.0 million. The main outstanding item is construction of
the first stage of a new marshalling yard at Pipri, near Karachi. The loca-
tion and design of this yard were changed twice following protracted inves-
tigations and negotiations between various agencies and planning authorities
with a view to reconciling urban planning and railway marshalling objectives.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
The GOP has requested an extension of the Closing Date until March 31, 1979.
The Tenth Railway Project became effective on May 9, 1977; procurement under
the Project is proceeding satisfactorily although there have been no dis-
bursements so far. PR's 1976/77 traffic level and financial results were
adversely affected by the severe flooding in August 1976, a sharp drop in
wheat imports and political unrest in the first half of 1977. Revised esti-
mates show an improved financial performance for 1977/78 as a result of a 20%
increase in passenger fares and a 12.5% increase in freight rates effective
July 1, 1977 and efforts to hold down working expenses. PR's performance of
covenants is generally satisfactory.
Credit No. 206       Engineering Education:  US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1970; Effective Date: July 14, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides US$4.0 million to finance the relocation of
the NED University of Engineering and Technology, Karachi (formerly NED
Engineering College) and technical assistance for the upgrading of University
staff. The new physical facilities were expected tobe in full use by June
1978. An extension of the Closing Date until December 1978, has been agreed
to allow for execution of technical assistance and other qualitative improve-
ment programs.
Credit No. 213       Power Transmission and Distribution:  US$23.0 Million
Credit of August 13, 1970; Effective Date: December 11,
1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Physical construction of the grid substation and associated equip-
ment of this Project is underway and can now be considered to be 70 percent
complete. Physical completion of the project is expected by the end of 1978.
To enable retention payments and final payments for equipment deliveries to
be made, a further postponement of the Closing Date by six months to
December 1978 has been approved.
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Construction work on the Juna Bunder Berths is currently about
15 months behind schedule. Quay piling was substantially completed in June
1978 and shed construction is now scheduled for completion by July 1979.
The initial and subsequent delays in construction of the Napier Mole Bridge
will mean that completion is likely to be delayed until late 1979 - about
18 months behind schedule. About US$14.5 million (82%) of Credit 422 has
been disbursed. Construction of the oil berth commenced in January 1977,



- 29 -
ANNEX II
some 27 months behind the program prepared at the time of appraisal, and
has now been substantially completed; only some electrical equipment lost
in transit remains to be fitted. Tenders have been invited from prequali-
fied contractors for channel dredging works and dredger procurement. Nine
bids have been received for supply of the dredger, and bids for the channel
dredging were due to be returned by June 26. Disbursements total about
US$5.8 million (36%) from Credit 492. Covenants and understandings reached
at the time of negotiations relating to the improvement of management and
finances have not been satisfactorily complied with. A new Chairman of KPT
was appointed in March and actions taken since then have been favorable and
generally in line with those proposed by the Association to KPT and GOP.
Cargo handling and other mechanical equipment has been contracted out for
urgent repairs and new equipment is being obtained from Bulgaria. Steps
are being taken to modify the priority system of ship berthing to promote
improved berth utilization.
Loan No. 961         Industrial Investment:  US$25.0 Million Loan of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: April 3, 1974;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1979
The Loan was made to the Government and is administered by PICIC.
The loan has been fully committed and disbursements amounted to $21.2 million
on June 30, 1978. The Closing Date has been extended by one year to June 30,
1979, to accommodate three subprojects.
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25.0 million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of June 30, 1978, subprojects for US$19.3 million had been
approved by the Bank. PICIC remains a capable institution, but its operations
and collections have been adversely affected by the recent political diffi-
culties in Pakistan. Its long-term prospects will depend mainly on devel-
opments in the political/economic environments, including the textile sector,
which accounts for a large portion of PICIC's outstandings.
Loan No. 988         Multan Fertilizer:  US$35.0 Million Loan of May 24,
1974; Effective Date: July 30, 1974; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Delays and escalating prices for civil works and, to a lesser extent,
for foreign equipment have raised the total project cost above the appraisal
estimate by about 87% (US$92 million). Construction delays have been due to
a shortage of civil contractors' capacity in Pakistan and to late deliveries
of critical equipment. Project completion is currently forecast to be about
18 months longer than the appraisal estimate and production is expected to
start in September 1978. The project's economic return is still close to 28%,
because of higher forecast international fertilizer prices. The company has
obtained the extra financing required, in equity from the Government and the



- 30 -
ANNEX II
foreign partner, and in debt from the OPEC Special Fund and commercial banks.
The project's corporate and field management has been strengthened. Craftsmen
and field supervisors from Europe have been hired to expedite plant construction.
Credit No. 510       Third Telecommunications:  US$36.0 Million Credit of
September 12, 1974; Effective Date: October 25, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project covered by this Credit is proceeding reasonably satis-
factorily, but is now about 12 months behind schedule. Procurement action for
all the main equipment items has been substantially completed, installation
of plant and equipment is making good progress, and about 70% of the additional
subscriber's lines are in service. As part of the project, T&T was to have
been reorganized so as to function more effectively along commercial lines and
to have been given a greater degree of autonomy. This reorganization, important
to improving the efficiency of operation of the sector, has been delayed, but
proposals which appear satisfactory are awaiting final Government approval.
The matter is continuing to be pursued with Government.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30.0 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
The Credit has been fully committed and US$22.6 million had been
disbursed as of June 30, 1978. We anticipate that the Credit will be fully
disbursed by next March. Although NDFC is currently a highly profitable
and financially stable institution there are several aspects of its operation
which are of concern. The orientation of NDFC's activities has been toward
commercial banking; its development impact would be improved if it were to
redirect its efforts toward analyzing sector problems in the public industrial
sector. Its rapid expansion has placed considerable strain upon its limited
manpower resources and newly established systems and procedures. While further
growth is projected over the next few years, staffing and systems development
may prove limiting factors.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Project activities are generally on schedule. A recent re-estimate
of final project costs (including the additional pipelines and distribution
systems authorized by the Bank) indicates savings in foreign exchange expendi-
tures of about US$7.3 million. The Borrower has applied to the Bank for
permission to apply these savings towards equipment and facilities needed for
handling additional gas supplies from the Potwar basin as well as toward
several other items that are required.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 620        Seed Project:  US$23.0 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Progress continues to be satisfactory. Civil works contracts have
been awarded for the three processing plants for the Punjab Seed Corporation
(PSC). It is anticipated that equipment contracts will also be finalized
shortly, and that the first processed seed from the project will be avail-
able in May/June 1979. Equipment tender documents for a similar plant of
the Sind Seed Corporation (SSC) have been approved by the Association. Co-
ordination of the project has improved. Development of the Corporations'
seed farms is proceeding; PSC has now started - and SSC will start next year -
their registered growers' schemes. Pilot projects for vegetables and potatoes
in Baluchistan and NWFP and for potatoes in Punjab have started. Progress
of the Seed Certification Agency and the National Seed Registration Agency
has been slower; GOP is still in the process of nominating the Directors of
these agencies.
Credit No. 630        Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage:
US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The detailed design of the project is now nearing completion but
this has been delayed and consequently the construction has also been delayed
and is about one year behind schedule. UNDP is financing US engineering con-
sultants who are advising and assisting WASA staff and local consultants to
carry out the engineering work. Experts provided by UK are assisting with
engineering management, leak detection and training.
Loan No. 1208-T       Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Physical construction of the 336-mile transmission line between
Faisalabad (formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and associated equipment will start
during 1978 with a completion date scheduled for December 1980. The contract
for consultant engineering and supervision was signed in April 1976 and most
bidding documents for equipment and material have been issued with awards
having been made on the major items.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14.0 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Overall progress is about ten months behind schedule due to delays
of about six months in appointing consultants and of a further four months
as a result of political disturbances last year. Tenders for the supply of
a major part of the construction equipment were invited in May 1978, and bid



- 32 -
ANNEX II
openings are expected in September. The Water and Power Development Authority
is completing construction of housing and offices for the construction colony
and is preparing to start construction early in 1979. Agricultural extension
activity has begun and program staff are being mobilized. Aerial surveys have
been completed and arrangements have been made to carry out field work for the
Landsat Imagery component in April 1979. The National Bank of Pakistan plans
to provide credit to farmers for leveling beginning early in 1979.
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15.0 million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project, which became effective in July 1977, provides facilities
for: (a) primary teacher training and experiment on adult functional liter-
acy program and related studies; and (b) agricultural education to assist in
developing higher and middle level agricultural manpower, farmer training and
related studies. Project implementation is about three months behind schedule
because of: (a) delays by the Government in confirming the appointment of
consultant architects in the Province of Sind; and (b) delays in contracting
technical assistance for the project. The architects have been now appointed
and the Government is addressing the problem of contracting specialists.
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10.0 million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation has been slower than expected with delays
being experienced in the appointment of consultants and the formation of
Village Livestock Associations (VLA's). The Managing Director of the Punjab
Livestock Board (the major project implementing agency) has been replaced
and Government has given assurances that project implementation will be
speeded up. It is anticipated that milk collection from the first VLA's will
commence in July and that consultants will be in place by January 1979.
Credit No. 683       Flood Damage Restoration:  US$40 million Credit of
March 8, 1977; Effective Date: April 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Progress on this Project has improved considerably in recent months.
All of the civil works restoration was completed by July 1978; orders for
US$10.5 million (of the US$12.4 million allocated in the Credit) have been
placed for spares, equipment, materials and assemblies; and reports have
been prepared on Phase I of the National Flood Plan and on Operation and
Maintenance of Flood Protection and Drainage Facilities. The report on the
Civil Works Contracting Industry has been delayed until September 30, 1978.
The Association has approved reallocation of US$4.58 million from major to
minor civil works restoration and US$1.64 million from spares to equipment,
materials and assemblies. It should be possible to meet the December 31, 1978
closing date.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 775      Hazara Forestry  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date:  July 14, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31,
1983
This Credit became effective on July 14, 1978. Short-lists of
consultants for the feasibility study, and for forestry and inventory spe-
cialists have been prepared. There has been good progress in land acquisi-
tion, building construction and local staff appointments.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
FAUJI FERTILIZER PROJECT
A. Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events I/
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
One year
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Fauji Foundation of Pakistan, in cooperation
with Haldor Topsoe A/S (Denmark)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of first Bank Mission to consider the
project
November 1977; First mission March 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
March 11, 1978
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
July 17, 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
About October 15, 1978
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) Reviewed contract of engineering and construction firms.
(b) Reviewed contracts with operating company and technical
advisors and between sponsors.
(c) Review training program.
1/   Subsequent to the withdrawal of Agrico Chemical Co. from the Project
in May 1977.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
(d) Review fertilizer seeding program.
(e) Review work programs and timetables of Fertilizer
Planning Committee and Transportation Task Force.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government not to sanction additional users of
Mari gas until adequate additional reserves are
proven (para 36).
(b)  FFC to submit to the Association a training program
by December 31, 1978, and to consult the Association
on the appointment of key management (para 39).
(c) Government and FFC to agree by September 30, 1978 on
seeding program, and that Government will allow FFC
to obtain sufficient local or imported fertilizers
(para 40).
(d) Government to maintain a Fertilizer Planning Committee
(para 41) and a Fertilizer Transportation Task Force
(para 42).
(e) Government to consult periodically with the Associa-
tion regarding the adequacy of dealers' commissions
(para 41).
(f) Fauji, Topsoe, IFU and IDB to subscribe up to US$29.2
million, US$5.2 million, US$5.2 million and US$10 mil-
lion, respectively, of FFC's equity (para 44).
(g) Financial Covenants (para 48):
(i) FFC to require IDA approval prior to making
additional fixed investment outside the Project
exceeding US$5 million per year or US$5 million
plus unutilized portions of previous years sub-
ject to a maximum of US$15 million;
(ii)  FFC not to exceed debt/equity ratio of 70/30
(or 60/40 including subordinated debt as equity);
(iii)  FFC to achieve current ratio of at least 1.5
at project completion date and 1.2 thereafter.
FFC will not incur additional long-term debt
if it could not maintain a debt service cover-
age of at least 1.4;



- 36 -
ANNEX III
(iv)  FFC will pay dividends only out of accumulated
net earnings and only if a current ratio of at
least 1.5 is maintained after such payments; and
(v)  Fauji and Topsoe to ensure that FFC performs its
obligations under the Loan Agreement.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
B. Main Parameters of the Fauji-Agrico (FAFCO) Project
and the Fauji Fertilizer (FFC) Project
FAFCO                         FFC
1.  Sponsors                Fauji Foundation and         Fauji Foundation and
Agrico International,        Topsoe A/S, Denmark
USA
2.  Project Implemen-       Agrico, USA                  FFC, Topsoe A/S, James
tation Management                                   Chemical Engineering, USA
3.  Engineering and         Kellogg (Ammonia), USA       Snamprogetti, S.p.A. Italy
Construction           Toyo (Urea), Japan           Coming, S.p.A. Italy
4.  Operating Management  Agrico, USA                    Anic, S.p.A. Italy
5.  Marketing Management  Agrico, USA                    FFC with Topsoe A/S
6.  Financing Plan          Equity:-Agrico, USA:         Equity:-Topsoe A/S,
(Changes)            US$25 million                Denmark, US$5.0 million
- IFU, Denmark, US$5.0
million
- Islamic Dev. Bank,
US$10.0 million
Debt:-KfW US$39 million  Debt:-KfW US$40 million
- Japanese Suppliers      - Italian Govt.
Credit: US$18 million    US$7.4 million
- Danish Govt.
US$3.9 million
- Pak. Comm. Banks:        - Pak. Comm. Banks,
US$38 million             US$40.0 million
7.  Pricing and Market-   20% Return on Equity           20% Return on Equity
ing Agreement          US$1.5 million plus          US$1.5 million and
US$1/ton Know How Fee        US$1/ton Know How Fee
8.  Project Finances        Project Estimated Cost:    Project Estimated Cost:
and Viability          US$259.8 million             US$260.3 million
(Base financing
plan)                 Financial Rate of Return
after Taxes:  12%                     14%
Economic Rate of Return:
24%                                   23%






IBRD 10818RI
I           JUNE 1978
6'2                         ~~~ ~~~66-                            70 O                                  74'
U.   S.
/,                   CHINA
PAKI STAN \N   rJ ---r 
PRESENT AND PROPOSED FERTILIZER PLANTS                                                            ..    ,j
fs    '   ~JAMMU
.~ /             '            AND            36g
<   >      gm--o1    KASH M I
FERTILIZER  PLANTS                                                         A-,
NITROGEN: PHOSPHATES:
*             0    Completed                                                                 J
Li            C)  Under Construction                                                                             o,(bP ,Line Of Contr
*             ~~~~Proposed FFC Site                                                  0w             1ei..
*      Natural Gas Fields                                                   PESH                      A    u
Natural Gas Pipelines                                                                                 Raw Iz  d 
Cropland
Roads                                                                       E        dKe                 ?
----Railways
Divisional Boundaries
Provincial Boundaries                                                             Sargo
-    -    International Boundaries                                                           GO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot AdX :/ 
Mastung                         /                 ~hawalnogar
NlKdiC H A G Ar
-28-            K A  L    T                       l           MSiruraFie/do         ._ A                                     28
n       /               0         100       200       300        400
I   f  - X   i_XC  )      (g2                                                            st~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIOMETReS 
0              100              200              300
Karacirp 0            Oodns.X                                              74
-24                                                                                  t                                         X  24 - _1 A-- RA.A . Line Of ...d
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9-I  I.:7 -V2                            C H I N A
A R A B  A N                     S E A                                                                   S                             -
N    HN
I.I                                                       I A   S
62-      66-                                       7Q-           H                        v  91 L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANKIAO$



