Document of 
The World Ba£nk
FOR OFFICIAL USE
RepotNo. 13139
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
(LOAN 2531-JO)
JUNE 13, 1994
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and 1112 be used bv recipients only in tbe performance of|
tbeir offcial duties. Its contents may Dot Otherwvise be disclosed writhout World Bankz authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Name of Currency : Jordanian Dinar (JD)
Appraisal Year Average
US$1.00 = JD .395
JD 1.00 = US$2.53
As of January 1993
US$1.00 = JD .689
JD 1.00 = US$1.45
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENT
1 millimeter (mm)              -      0.04 inches
1 centimeter (cm)              -      0.394 inches
1 meter (m)                    -      3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)               -      0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)       -      0.386 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS
CHCC:       Comprehensive Health Care Center
IEC:        Information, Education, and Communication
MCH:        Maternal and Child Health
MOH:        Ministry of Health
NGO:        Non-Governmental Organization
NMI:        National Medical Institute
PHC:        Primary Health Care
PHCC:       Primary Health Care Center
PMU:        Project Management Unit
SAR:        Staff Appraisal Report
USAID:       United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 13, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Jordan
Primary Health Care Project (Loan 2531-JO)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Jordan-Primary Health Care Project (Loan
2531-JO) prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared by
the Borrower.
The purpose of this project was to expand coverage and improve quality of primary health
care and referral services, with special focus on mothers and children. An innovative feature was the
development of new intermediate level facilities to supervise and serve as referral centers for primary
health centers.  Components included construction, training, health, population and nutrition
education, and support for research and evaluation.
Construction of a number of health facilities was cancelled because of the Government's fiscal
crisis and because communities were not able to provide suitable sites. This resulted in disbursement
of only about two thirds of the loan proceeds. The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory.
Institutional development is rated as modest and the project results are likely to be sustainable.
No audit is planned at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
LOAN 2531-JO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface    .      .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .
Evaluation Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Objectives  and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Project  Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
The Bank's  Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
The Borrower's  Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Borrower-Bank Relationship ....................... . 11
Consulting  Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Evaluation  of the World Bank's  Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Lessons  Learned  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Evaluation of Borrower's  Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Lessons  Learned  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table  1:   Related Bank Loans/Credits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Table  2:   Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Table  3:   Credit Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Table  4:   Project  Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Table  5:   Project  Costs  and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Table  6:   Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Table  7:   Compliance with Loan Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Table  8:   Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.Il






JORDAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
CREDIT 2531-JO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Primary Health Care
Project, for which Loan 2531-JO in the amount of US$13.5 million equivalent
was approved on May 7, 1985. The Loan was closed on May 31, 1993, five months
behind schedule. A total of US$8.14 million was disbursed with the final
disbursement being made on July 2, 1993 and the unutilized balance of US$5.36
million cancelled.
2.    The PCR was prepared jointly by the Population and Human Resources
Division (Country Department II) of the Middle East and North Africa Region
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part III) and the Borrower (Part II).
3.    This PCR is based on information gathered in Jordan, the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR), the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, the Borrower's
Completion Report, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, and internal
IDA memoranda'.
1/   The Task Manager for this report is Gail Richardson (Human Resources Specialist, MN2PH), with
assistance provided by Ricci Tan (Intern, MN2PH). The report was reviewed by Cecilia Valdivieso
(Principal Operations Officer, MN2PH) and approved by Alfred T. Heron, Acting Division Chief,
MN2PH).






JORDAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
(LOAN 2531-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.    The general objective of the Primary Health Care Project was to expand
the coverage and improve the quality and efficiency of primary health care and
of referral services in the basic specialties (such as pediatrics, obstetrics-
gynecology, general medicine), with a special focus on the health of mothers
and children. Emphasizing the basic specialties would serve to reduce
mortality and morbidity resulting from preventable causes. The project was to
put in place the foundations of a new service delivery model and referral
system, which, if successful, would be expanded throughout Jordan. This new
service delivery model included the establishment of a novel type of facility
in the health delivery network, the comprehensive health care center (CHCC).
The role of the CHCCs was to supervise, and serve as referral facilities for,
the primary health care centers (PHCCs), provide primary health care services
for the adjacent population, and provide maternity, emergency and laboratory
services. This innovative model was developed to integrate primary health
care (PHC) with maternal and child health (MCH) in every primary and
comprehensive health center, eliminating the underutilization of separately
operated PHC and MCH centers and reducing the high demand for more expensive
MOH hospital services.
2.    The specific objectives of the project were: (i) to extend the coverage
of basic health care services through construction, rehabilitation, equipping,
and furnishing of health care facilities; (ii) to improve health services
through manpower development; (iii) to promote health, population, and
nutrition education through development of materials and strengthening
outreach and supervision of health education activities; and (iv) to
strengthen health sector planning and management by providing technical
assistance for research of key sector issues and equipping and furnishing the
Project Management Unit (PMU).
3.    The project included the following components:
(i)         Expanding and improving health services by: (i) constructing and
equipping 25 new, and renovating 9 existing, PHCCs; (ii)
constructing and equipping 13 new CHCCs; and (iii) upgrading 4
existing PHCCs to CHCCs;
- ii -



(ii)        Developing health sector personnel by providing:  (i) training for
about 800 MOH staff, including residency training for 95
specialists in family medicine, 45 specialists in emergency
medicine, 25 specialists in internal medicine, pediatrics, and
obstetrics/gynecology; (ii) post-graduate training for 24 health
care administrators and 60 nurses trainers; and (iii) pre-service
training for 40 nurses, 90 midwives, 195 practical nurses, and 235
medical technicians;
(iii)       Expanding health, population, and nutrition education by providing
equipment, audio-visual materials, and vehicles to complement the
USAID-financed MOH health education project; and
(iv)        Strengthening health sector planning and management by supporting
research on key sector issues, a mid-term and final evaluation of
the project, and preparatory activities for future Bank projects.
In addition, the project provided equipment and furniture for the
PMU.
4.    These components constituted the original core project, estimated to
cost US$30.5 million, with Bank financing of US$13.5 million. Actual
financing was US$8.1 million. Construction of seven health facilities was
cancelled in December 1989 because of the Government's fiscal crisis and
because the communities were not able to provide suitable sites.
Implementation Experience
5.    The project was processed generally in accordance with the project
timetable. The implementation period was eleven months longer than the
original seven years to allow for sufficient time for the medical equipment to
be procured. Procurement of medical equipment was delayed because of the
Government's financial crisis in 1989. During this period, the procurement of
goods requiring foreign exchange was extremely limited. Procurement of
medical equipment was further delayed by a debate over the National Medical
Institute (NMI) concept, introduced in 1988 and shelved in 1990. According to
this concept, the NMI was to provide all specialized care. This put into
question what role the CHCCs would play in the delivery of health services.
There was little reason to procure medical equipment when it was not clear
what types of services were to be provided at the CHCCs.
6.    Project Design.  The project concept was in line with the Government's
priorities as defined in the 1981-85 Five Year Plan for the health sector,
which stressed the need to extend the coverage of health services. The design
was straightforward in its components, innovative, and flexible in that it
included both basic components (financed with Bank assistance) and other
complementary but self-standing components (health education, health manpower
training) for parallel financing by other donors. Incorporating other donors
allowed the Government to develop a larger, more comprehensive project,
without placing undue strains on their own resources. However, a mechanism
for coordinating the activities of other donors was not specified in the
project design, which complicated and compromised implementation. Community
participation was encouraged by specifying that land for the construction of
- iii -



new facilities must be donated by the community. This not only saved
Government resources, but also served as an expression of the community's
interest in having a new health center.
7.    The weaknesses in project design pertained to: (i) not giving adequate
attention to the training needs of the staff of the project management unit in
project management and World Bank procedures, especially given that this was
the first project to be managed by the PMU; (ii) not designing an efficient
and effective mechanism for coordination of the components financed by other
donor agencies; (iii) not providing clear guidelines as to how project inputs
were to be monitored to facilitate quality supervision; (iv) not providing for
maintenance of the newly constructed or rehabilitated facilities; and (v) not
including a provision for the acquisition of land if a community was unable to
donate an appropriate site.
Prolect Results
8.    Achievement of Objectives.  Each of the four project objectives (para.
2), was achieved to some extent. Forty-four health centers (of the 51
planned) were constructed or rehabilitated and equipped under the project, and
therefore the objective to expand coverage and increase accessibility of PHC
was achieved. Further, according to the Government, services continue to be
provided at all of the PHCCs and CHCCs constructed under the project.
Achievement of the project's second objective, to improve health services
through manpower development, was achieved in that manpower were trained
during the life of the project through the MOH's ongoing manpower development
programs (Table 4). However, an assessment of the quality of training or the
impact the training may have had on the delivery of services has never been
completed. Manpower were trained, yet how well is not known. To what extend
the project affected the number of staff trained also cannot be quantified.
The third objective, to promote health, population, and nutrition education
was achieved in that health education activities did occur during the life of
the project. Material was developed in collaboration with USAID that
addressed diarrhea and oral rehydration therapy, breastfeeding, home
sanitation, the dangers of smoking, etc. Quantitatively, health education was
promoted, yet a qualitative assessment of what impact the health education
activities may have had on the health of the population has never been
completed. The fourth objective, to strengthen health sector planning and
management by providing technical assistance for research of key sector
issues, was achieved in that research activities were completed during the
life of the project. However, no technical assistance was supported by the
project, and none of the key sector topics presented in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR, Report No. 5441-JO), such as the impact of the new CHCC health
delivery model, were researched. Instead, research activities were supported
by other donors on topics such as nurses training needs, the health status of
the aged, the prevalence of home accidents, etc. Research was conducted, and
therefore planning and management may have been strengthened, but the topics
identified in the SAR were not researched and there is no indication that the
project itself led to improved planning and management.
9.    Prolect Impact.  There are four process indicators specified in the SAR
which were to be achieved during the life of the project: (i) increasing the
- iv -



share of pregnant women who receive pre-natal care from 20 to 40 percent of
all pregnancies; (ii) increasing the share of deliveries attended by MOH staff
from 30 to 40 percent of total deliveries; (iii) increasing the share of
couples who get contraceptive services from the MOH from 1 to 6 percent of the
eligible couples; and (iv) increasing the share of children under six years of
age who get well baby care from 15 to 30 percent of all children under six.
According to the latest figures submitted by the MOH (August 1993), indicators
(i) and (iv) exceeded the appraisal estimates. The share of pregnant women
receiving pre-natal care has risen from 20 (1985) to 62 percent, clearly
surpassing the appraisal estimate of 40 percent. The second process
indicator, the share of children under six years old who receive well baby
care, jumped from 15 percent to 89 percent, well beyond the appraisal estimate
of 30 percent. The data for indicator (ii) is conflicting. According to the
MOH's 1987 Statistical Report, the share of deliveries supervised by MOH staff
had risen to 61 percent, however the most recent figure submitted by the MOH
(August 1993) indicated that this figure had plunged to 21 percent, which is
even below the 30 percent figure cited at the time of project preparation.
Indicator (iii) is no longer an indicative statistic for the utilization of
contraceptive services since the private sector plays such an important role
in the delivery of contraceptive services. The contraceptive prevalence rate
was 35 percent in 1988, up from 23 percent in 1976, a figure which is low by
international standards, but compares favorably with most neighboring
countries and with other muslim countries.
10. Another approach to measure the impact of the project might be to
consider health statistics data. Although it is difficult to assess the
precise impact of the project interventions on the improved health status of
the Jordanian population, health indicators did improve over the life of the
project. According to the MOH, life expectancy has continued to increase from
64 years in 1982 to 66 years in 1991, the crude death rate has continued to
decline from 11 per 1,000 to 6.2 per 1,000, and the infant mortality rate
dropped from 63 per 1,000 live births to 36.7 per 1,000 live births. Further,
the number of physicians in Jordan has more than doubled from 3219 in 1985 to
6665 in 1991. Likewise the number of midwives has almost tripled from 291 in
1985 to 625 in 1991.
Project Sustainability
11. The achievements made towards improved utilization of health services
(para. 9) and improved health status of the population (para. 10) are
indicators of project sustainability. The CHCCs and PHCCs constructed or
rehabilitated under the project have been incorporated into the MOH service
delivery network and, according to the Government, continue to provide PHC
services. However, the facilities are subject to the same difficulties that
plague the health sector: maintenance of both facilities and equipment tends
to be ad-hoc; material and supply distribution systems are weak; and staff
tend to be drawn to working in urban, better equipped facilities. The
sustainability of the PHC network will be improved by several key components
of the recently approved Health Management Project (Loan 3574-JO). In this
project, maintenance will be improved by the creation of a central maintenance
workshop and 12 hospital-based workshops; the General Stores and Supplies
Department, the department responsible for procuring and distributing medical
-v -



equipment and supplies, will be strengthened, and a staffing study will be
completed to identify staffing problems. The long term sustainability of the
project interventions will be dependent on the Government's continued support
to improved health services delivery, as evidenced by the current Five Year
Plan for the health sector which emphasizes improving the availability and
quality of health services.
Lessons Learned
12.   Donor Coordination.  Although there are advantages to incorporating the
contributions from other donors into a project, it is critical for successful
implementation, and to maintain the integrity of the project as a whole, that
an efficient and effective mechanism for supervising all project interventions
be defined.
13.   Project Monitoring.  Clear guidelines for project monitoring should be
defined prior to project effectiveness. Establishing such guidelines would
allow the Government and the Bank to measure which interventions were being
effectively implemented, and which interventions needed to be modified to
better achieve the desired results.
14.   Training.  As this was the first project to be implemented by the PMU,
implementation would have been facilitated and expedited if the PMU staff had
received training in project management and World Bank procedures.
15.   Supervision.  World Bank supervision of the project was weak: the
composition of the teams and task management responsibilities changed
frequently. As a result, there was little follow through on the actions
agreed upon with the previous supervision mission, documents were misplaced,
and, according to the Borrower, considerable time was spent by the Borrower
briefing each new supervision team. A greater effort should have been made on
providing greater continuity of supervision activities.
16.   Communication.  Clear channels of communication were not defined.  On
several occasions, the Government said that documents were mailed, yet not
received by the appropriate person because of incorrect addresses; other times
documents were given to one mission member and then not filed appropriately so
that the next mission would ask for the same document.
17.   Impact.  This project took a gamble by supporting an entirely new health
delivery model, the CHCC, that was to be expanded throughout the country if
successful. It is critical that attention be given, both in project design
and implementation, to the assessment of the success of such a new model.
Although provisions for such an assessment were included in the project
design, the evaluation was never completed. Defining and measuring the
parameters for success would have provide the Government with the tools to
determine whether future expansion would be warranted.
- vi






JORDAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
(LOAN 2531-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name:      Primary Health Care Project
Loan No.     :    2531-JO
RVP Unit    :    Middle East & North Africa Region
Country Department II
Country      :    Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Sector       :    Health
Subsector   :    Primary Health Care
2.    Background
2.1         At the time of appraisal (April 1985), preventable communicable
diseases and complications of pregnancy and childbirth constituted Jordan's
main health problems. As a result, morbidity and mortality rates for children
under five and women of childbearing age were disproportionately high. This
trend reflected the fact that about 40 percent of the population, particularly
the poor, did not have access to adequate primary health care services.
2.2         Between 1965 and 1985, the population of Jordan grew sharply at an
annual rate of 4.8 percent, and the population doubled in size. Reasons for
this high growth rate included high fertility rates coupled with declining
mortality rates, and two decades of high immigration. Yet despite the strains
placed by the exceedingly high population growth, health conditions improved
significantly between 1960 and 1985. Life expectancy had risen from 47 years
in 1960 to 64 in 1985 and the crude death rate had fallen from 20 per 1,000 to
11 per 1,000 during this same period. Although the infant mortality rate
declined by almost 50 percent to 63 per 1,000 live births in 1985, the rate
was still high when compared to other upper middle-income countries and was
seven times higher than the average for industrialized countries. Jordan was
undergoing an epidemiologic transition, exhibiting the chronic disease profile
of industrialized countries and the infectious disease pattern of developing
countries.
2.3         Sector DeveloPment Obiectives.  The principal objectives of the
Government's 1981-1985 Five Year Plan for the health sector were to: (i)
strengthen the delivery of primary health care (PHC) and preventive services;
(ii) provide all Jordanians with access to health care services; and (iii)
increase the quality and supply of health personnel. To achieve these
-1 -



objectives, the Government's strategy was to expand the primary health care
network, integrate maternal and child health services into the PHC delivery
system, increase the number of trained medical staff, and develop an effective
referral system to ensure that patients used the most appropriate level of
facility.
3.    Project Obiectives and Description
3.1   Project Objectives.   The main objective of the project was to assist
the Government to expand the coverage and improve the quality and efficiency
of primary health care and of referral services in the basic specialties, with
a special focus on the health problems of mothers and children. Emphasizing
the basic specialties would serve to reduce mortality and morbidity that
resulted from preventable causes. In addition, the project was to put in
place the foundations of a new service delivery model and referral system,
which, if successful, would be expanded throughout Jordan.
3.2   The new service delivery model included the establishment of a novel
type of facility in the health delivery network, the comprehensive health care
center (CHCC). The role of the CHCCs was to supervise, and serve as referral
facilities for, the primary health care centers (PHCCs), provide primary
health care services for the adjacent population, and provide maternity,
emergency and laboratory services. In addition, a new referral system was to
be established whereby people would be assigned to a specific PHCC. Patients
could seek care at a CHCC if they were referred by their PHCC or in case of
emergency. This innovative model was developed to integrate PHC with maternal
and child health (MCH) in every primary and comprehensive health center,
eliminating the underutilization of separately operated PHC and MCH centers
and reducing the high demand for more expensive MOH hospital services.
3.3 The specific objectives of the project were the following:
(i)   Expansion of the coverage of basic health care services through
construction, rehabilitation, equipping, and furnishing of health
care facilities;
(ii) Improvement of health services through manpower development;
(iii) Promotion of health, population, and nutrition education through
development of materials and strengthening outreach and
supervision of health education activities; and
(iv) Strengthening health sector planning and management by providing
technical assistance for project evaluation and research in key
sector issues and equipping and furnishing the Project Management
Unit (PMU).
-2-



3.4   Proiect Components.   To obtain these objectives, the project comprised
the following components:
(i)         Expanding and improving health services by: (i) constructing and
equipping 25 new, and renovating 9 existing, PHCCs; (ii)
constructing and equipping 13 new CHCCs; and (iii) upgrading 4
existing PHCCs to CHCCs;
(ii)        Developing health sector personnel by providing: (i) training for
about 800 Ministry of Health (MOH) staff, including residency
training for 95 specialists in family medicine, 45 specialists in
emergency medicine, 25 specialists in internal medicine,
pediatrics, and obstetrics/gynecology; (ii) post-graduate training
for 24 health care administrators and 60 nurses trainers; and
(iii) pre-service training for 40 nurses, 90 midwives, 195
practical nurses, and 235 medical technicians;
(iii)       Expanding health, population, and nutrition education by providing
equipment, audio-visual materials, and vehicles to complement the
USAID-financed MOH health education project; and
(iv)        Strengthening health sector planning and management by supporting
research on key sector issues, a mid-term and final evaluation of
the project, and preparatory activities for future Bank projects.
In addition, the project provided equipment and furniture for the
PMU.
4.    Project Desiqn and Organization
4.1   The project was the first Bank lending operation to be fully implemented
by the MOH. The project concept was identified in January 1984 in the context
of discussions of the Health Sector Review (Report No. 4748-JO). At the time
of project identification, both the MOH and Bank agreed to a new service
delivery model as the conceptual foundation for qualitative improvement of the
delivery of PHC services.
4.2   Project Design.  The project concept was in line with the Government's
priorities as defined in the 1981-85 Five Year Plan for the health sector
which stressed the need to extend the coverage of health services. The design
was straightforward in its components, innovative, and flexible in that it
included basic components (financed with Bank assistance) and other
complementary but self-standing components (health education, health manpower
training) for parallel financing by other donors. Incorporating other donors
allowed the Government to develop a larger, more comprehensive project,
without placing tremendous strains on their own resources. However, a
mechanism for coordinating the activities of other donors was not defined,
which complicated and compromised implementation. Finally, community
participation was encouraged by specifying that land for the construction of
new facilities must be donated by the community. This not only saved
Government resources, but also served as an expression of the community's
interest in having a new health center.
- 3-



4.3   The project's design could have been strengthened by:
(i)         Requiring that PMU staff be identified as a condition of
negotiations. As it turned out, staffing of the PMU was not
completed until four months after the project had become
effective, delaying project implementation;
(ii)        Ensuring that the staff of the PMU were trained in World Bank
procedures, especially given that this was the first project
managed by the MOH. The SAR stated that PMU staff were to serve
as apprentices under the auspices of other Bank projects in
Jordan. Recommendations were likewise made during supervision for
the PMU accountant to be trained on a short-term basis at the
Bank's headquarters and the procurement specialist to be trained
through a short-term course abroad. These suggestions, however,
never materialized and learning was done on an ad-hoc basis,
contributing to implementation delays;
(iii)       Defining an efficient and effective mechanism for coordination and
supervision of the components financed by other donor agencies.
Since the Bank accepted the Government's position to borrow only
for civil works and equipment, a means to coordinate the
activities supported by donor agencies was a critical, yet
lacking, input. For example, health education activities which
were to be completed by USAID were not carried out at the
grassroots level. The new service delivery model (para. 3.2) was
developed to give greater importance to outreach activities and
health education. Given that the USAID financed health education
program did not reach the grassroots level, that aspect of the new
service delivery model was never fully implemented. Had the
project been designed to compensate for such shortfalls, adequate
steps could have been taken to provide grassroots health education
activities;
(iv)        Providing clear guidelines as to how project inputs were to be
monitored. The guidelines should have specified not only that
quantitative information needed to be maintained, but also that
qualitative assessments should have been completed. Without such
guidelines, records such as the number of staff trained under the
project were not maintained nor was an assessment of the quality
of the manpower development program ever completed;
(v)         Taking into account the highly centralized structure of the MOH,
which did not favor effective supervision of local activities,
such as those included in the health education component;
(vi)        Including a provision for maintenance of the newly constructed or
rehabilitated facilities; and
(vii)       Including a provision for the acquisition of land if a community
was unable to donate an appropriate site.
-4



4.4   Project Preparation.  It took 29 months to prepare the project (pre-
identification to Loan effectiveness). During preparation, the Bank ensured
that the basis upon which CHCCs and PHCCs would be built were clearly
justified. During the pre-appraisal mission, the proposed number of CHCCs was
reduced from 18 to 9, considering that the CHCC model was to be introduced on
a pilot basis. The selection of catchment areas, space norms, and percentage
of people likely to be referred to specialists were all carefully examined for
cost-effectiveness. All of the sites for the first phase of construction were
acquired prior to loan effectiveness.
5. Project Implementation
5.1   Assessment of Implementation.  The project was processed generally in
accordance with the project timetable (Table 2). The project was appraised in
November 1984, negotiated in March 1985, approved by the World Bank's Board in
May 1985, signed in July 1985, and declared effective in February 1986. The
implementation period was eleven months longer than the original estimate of
seven years to allow sufficient time for the medical equipment to be procured
(see para. 5.5).
5.2   Implementation was hindered by the following factors:
(i)         The PMU was not completely staffed until four months after loan
effectiveness;
(ii)        Vehicles were not available to the PMU and therefore supervision
by PMU staff was limited and ad-hoc. Further, computer equipment
for the PMU was not procured until the last year of project
implementation. The computer equipment could have provided a
valuable tool for tracking inventory (para.5.6);
(iii)       The Project Advisory Committee, composed of all MOH Department
Directors, did not meet regularly or provide the advisory support
which was expected.  As a result, coordination of and
collaboration among project activities was weakened;
(iv)        Collaboration among the various donors involved in the project was
extremely weak, having a particularly negative impact on the
manpower development and research components of the project;
(v)         Since several of the covenants specified in the Loan Agreement
were never completed (such as submission of annual training and
research plans and the mid-term review), monitoring progress was
impeded. Had, for example, the mid-term review been completed,
problems with implementation could have been identified and
corrected;
(vi)        The Gulf Crisis in 1990 interrupted Bank supervision missions;
(vii)       Lack of regular field visits by medical staff and the
unavailability of appropriate medical staff in a number of health
centers hindered consistent and effective implementation of
- 5 -



outreach activities and the integration of MCH and PHC in the new
health units; and
(viii)      The MOH did not seem to be wholeheartedly committed to the
inclusion of family planning services as part of PHC and
information, education, and communication (IEC) activities.
Although the MOH gave formal assurances to ensure public
accessibility to family planning services and information during
the Safe Motherhood Conference, it did not follow through in its
collaboration with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) to
develop effective channels of educational activities at the
grassroots level. The project's efforts to complement outreach
and educational activities by other donors were thus significantly
weakened. The Bank can be faulted for not following through with
the MOH to ensure that population activities were given the
appropriate attention.
5.3   Exipansion of Health Services.  The entire portion of the loan allocated
to civil works (US$4.9 million) was exclusively for this component. The major
variance between planned and actual project implementation related to: (i) the
number of health centers constructed (44 constructed of the 51 planned); (ii)
the delay in the commencement of construction by 11 months (para. 5.4); and
(iii) delay in the availability of the necessary furniture and vehicles
required for the operation of the health centers (see para. 5.5).
5.4   All but seven (six PHCCs and one CHCC) of the planned facilities were
completed. Initially, construction was delayed because of the lack of formal
training of the PMU on Bank procurement procedures. As a result, the initial
tenders for constructing and equipping the first group of health facilities
had to be redone, delaying the commencement of construction by 11 months.
Construction of the seven health facilities was cancelled in December 1989 due
to the unavailability of suitable land for the community to donate.
5.5   The fiscal crisis in 1989 left the Ministry with insufficient resources
to finance its 40 percent share for locally acquired furniture. As a result,
the opening of newly constructed facilities was delayed due to lack of
furniture and equipment. The Bank responded in December 1989 by amending the
Loan Agreement to allow for 90 percent financing of locally procured items.
Procurement of medical equipment was further delayed by a debate over the
National Medical Institute (NMI) concept, introduced in 1988 and shelved in
1990. According to this concept, the NMI was to provide all specialized care.
This put into question what role the CHCCs would play in the delivery of
health services. There was little reason to procure medical equipment when it
was not clear what types of services were to be provided at the CHCCs.
5.6 A Bank supervision mission noted in June 1991 that medical equipment and
furniture that had been purchased had not been delivered to all the health
facilities. Five months later, the health centers were equipped with the
appropriate furniture yet remained without the necessary equipment. It was
not until June 1992 that the equipment was distributed to the new health
facilities, a year after the supervision mission had noted it was missing.
The delay in the distribution of the equipment was due to improper inventory
-6-



tracking--the qu.pipment had been sitting in a storage area. The inventory
could have been efficiently tracked if the PMU had been equipped with an
information system during the earlier stages of project life.
5.7   Health Manvower Development.  The loan did not provide funding for
health manpower development since the training was to be provided as part of
the MOH's ongoing manpower development program. About 800 MOH staff were to
receive pre-service training to staff the CHCCs and PHCCs constructed or
rehabilitated under the project, and about 2,000 staff were to participate in
in-service training workshops on topics related to primary health care, such
as oral rehydration techniques, well baby care, etc. According to the MOH,
all of the appraisal estimates for numbers of staff trained were exceeded
(Table 4), except the number of staff trained in family medicine and emergency
medicine (13 of the planned 95 and 17 of the planned 45 respectively). Since
a mechanism for monitoring the quality of the training programs was not
included in the project design, an assessment of the impact of the project
interventions could not be completed. Training schedules which were to be
submitted annually to the Bank for review, as stated in the Loan Agreement,
were not prepared, despite repeated requests from the Bank for their
submission. In addition, coordination between the PMU and the directorate
responsible for staffing the newly constructed facilities was poor.
Supervision reports noted that although nurses were being trained as part of
the ongoing MOH program, qualified nurses had been widely unavailable in the
new PHCCs, reflecting the MOH's inability to deploy health staff
appropriately.
5.8   Health. Population, and Nutrition Education.  Under this component, the
project was to finance equipment, vehicles, and audio-visual materials to
complement the health education activities of USAID and to assist the MOH in
the supervision of health education outreach activities. Health education
material was developed on such topics as well baby care, the need to immunize
children, the dangers of smoking, etc., yet no assessment of the impact of the
campaigns on the health habits of the population was ever completed, nor was
such an assessment provided for in the project design. With the new service
delivery model, health education activities were to be taken to the local
level. However, implementation of these outreach activities, a crucial aspect
of primary health care, was hindered by: (i) MOH's highly centralized
structure which limited supervision at the local level; (ii) the lack of an
integrated communication action plan between the government and NGOs, and
hence the failure to utilize NGO experience at the grassroots level; (iii) the
inadequate staff required to carry out the activities from the new health
centers; and (iv) the unavailability of vehicles at the health units needed
for educational outreach and supervisory activities.
5.9   Strengthening Planning and Management.  In addition to equipping,
furnishing, and providing office materials for the PMU, the SAR called for the
evaluation of the project and research related to important health sector
issues. Further, the project was to provide consultant services for carrying
out health sector studies for future Bank related projects.
-7 -



5.10  The research activities were funded by other donors, limiting the PMU's
control over the research agenda. Consequently, the series of studies
conducted did not cover the themes identified in the SAR. The SAR identified
the following topics: health manpower issues, health care financing,
efficiency of service delivery, nutrition, and maternal and child morbidity
and mortality. The studies which were conducted during the project period
were: an assessment of nurses training needs (1989), nutritional status of
children in the Jerash district (1990), the health status of the aged (1991),
the prevalence of goiter in Jordan, the prevalence of home accidents among
children, and fertility and health surveys. The requirement that MOH submit
research proposals each year as stated in the Loan Agreement were unrealistic,
given the absence of independent decision-making on the part of the MOH in
determining the contents of the studies to be undertaken. Additionally, there
was no indication that recommendations and/or results of research have been
implemented.
5.11 Similarly, studies to be carried out for future Bank involvement in the
health sector were not completed. Further, although the Borrower claims to
have submitted a mid-term evaluation as covenanted in the Loan Agreement,
there are no records of the evaluation in World Bank files, or in the
Borrower's files. The final evaluation contained quantitative and technical
information, void of any analytical appraisal of process indicators and
progress performance of utilization of the new health centers. The MOH's
inability to carry out comprehensive evaluations stemmed from the lack of
coordination, and hence information, between the PMU and the Directorates.
5.12   Disbursements.  There was a lag in disbursements over time (Table 3).
The reasons for this were:
(i)   Delay in the appointment of an accountant and a procurement specialist,
which in turn delayed the establishment of the special account and
submission of technical specifications for equipment, vehicles, and
furniture;
(ii) Lengthy evaluation procedures of the tender committee, causing some
bidding contracts to expire.  Upon expiration, certain medical equipment
had to be rebid;
(iii) Chronic delays in the payment of construction contracts; and
(iv)  Temporary cancellation of the purchase of specialized medical equipment
(e.g., surgical, obstetrical) when the NMI was conceptualized in 1988 to
be the sole provider of specialized medical care.
5.13 A disbursement of US$0.5 million in 1986 established the special fund,
but no payments or procurement contracts could be made until after the PMU had
been fully staffed. In late 1986, tender documents for equipment had to be
revised according to Bank models. Delay in the submission of withdrawal
applications and the processing of bid evaluations and contract awards
resulted in a cumulative disbursement of US$1.05 million versus the targeted
US$1.8 million in 1987. In 1988, a number of factors contributed to the lag
in disbursements, including the creation of the National Medical Institute,
- 8 -



which was to provide all specialized care, resulting in the cancellation of
ongoing bidding and purchase orders for specialized equipment for the CHCCs
and PHCCs; import regulations limited the purchase of medical equipment; and
delays in the payment of contractors. The disbursement schedule was amended
in 1989 to alleviate the government's inability to finance furniture
expenditures due to a budgetary deficit, increasing Bank financing of local
expenditures from 60 percent to 90 percent while maintaining the original
allocated amount for that category. In 1989, the construction of seven health
centers (US$3.3 million) was cancelled. This cancellation, coupled with the
US$1.9 million that remained in the unallocated category of expenditure left
US$5.2 million of the US$13.5 million loan unutilized.
6.   Project Results
6.1   Achievement of Obiectives (Table 4). Each of the four project
objectives (para. 2) were achieved to some extent. Forty-four health centers
(of the 51 planned) were constructed or rehabilitated and equipped under the
project, and therefore the objective to expand coverage and increase
accessibility of PHC was achieved. Further, according to the Government,
services continue to be provided at all of the PHCCs and CHCCs constructed
under the project. Achievement of the project's second objective, to improve
health services through manpower development, was achieved in that manpower
were trained during the life of the project through the MOH's ongoing manpower
development programs (Table 4). However, an assessment of the quality of
training or the impact the training may have had on the delivery of services
has never been completed. Manpower were trained, yet how well is not known.
To what extend the project affected the number of staff trained also cannot be
quantified. The third objective, to promote health, population, and nutrition
education was achieved in that health education activities did occur during
the life of the project. Material was developed in collaboration with USAID
that addressed diarrhea and oral rehydration therapy, breastfeeding, home
sanitation, the dangers of smoking, etc. Quantitatively, health education was
promoted, yet a qualitative assessment of what impact the health education
activities may have had on the health of the population has never been
completed. The fourth objective, to strengthen health sector planning and
management by providing technical assistance for research of key sector
issues, was achieved in that research activities were completed during the
life of the project. However, no technical assistance was supported by the
project, and none of the key sector topics presented in the SAR, such as the
impact of the new CHCC health delivery model, were researched. Instead,
research activities were supported by other donors on topics such as nurses
training needs, the health status of the aged, the prevalence of home
accidents, etc. Research was conducted, and therefore planning and management
may have been strengthened, but the topics identified in the SAR were not
researched and there is no indication that the project itself led to improved
planning and management.
6.2   Project Impact.  There are four process indicators specified in the SAR
which were to be achieved during the life of the project (Table 6b): (i)
increasing the share of pregnant women who receive pre-natal care from 20 to
40 percent of all pregnancies; (ii) increasing the share of deliveries
attended by MOH staff from 30 to 40 percent of total deliveries; (iii)
-9-



increasing the share of couples who get contraceptive services from the MOH
from 1 to 6 percent of the eligible couples; and (iv) increasing the share of
children under six years of age who get well baby care from 15 to 30 percent
of all children under six. According to the latest figures submitted by the
MOH (August 1993), indicators (i) and (iv) exceeded the appraisal estimates.
The share of pregnant women receiving pre-natal care has risen from 20 (1985)
to 62 percent, clearly surpassing the appraisal estimate of 40 percent. The
second process indicator, the share of children under six years old who
receive well baby care, jumped from 15 percent to 89 percent, well beyond the
appraisal estimate of 30 percent. The data for indicator (ii) is conflicting.
According to the MOH's 1987 Statistical Report, the share of deliveries
supervised by MOH staff had risen to 61 percent, however the most recent
figure submitted by the MOH (August 1993) indicated that this figure had
plunged to 21 percent, which is even below the 30 percent figure cited at the
time of project preparation. Indicator (iii) is no longer an indicative
statistic for the utilization of contraceptive services since the private
sector plays such an important role in the delivery of contraceptive services.
The contraceptive prevalence rate was 35 percent in 1988, up from 23 percent
in 1976, a figure which is low by international standards, but compares
favorably with most neighboring countries and with other muslim countries.
6.3   Another approach to measure the impact of the project might be to
consider health statistics data. Although it is difficult to assess the
precise impact of the project interventions on the improved health status of
the Jordanian population, health indicators did improve over the life of the
project. According to the MOH, life expectancy has continued to increase from
64 years in 1982 to 66 years in 1991, the crude death rate has continued to
decline from 11 per 1,000 to 6.2 per 1,000, and the infant mortality rate
dropped from 63 per 1,000 live births to 36.7 per 1,000 live births. Further,
the number of physicians in Jordan has more than doubled from 3219 in 1985 to
6665 in 1991. Likewise the number of midwives has almost tripled from 291 in
1985 to 625 in 1991.
7.    Project Sustainabilitv
7.1 The achievements made towards improved utilization of health services
(para. 6.2) and improved health status of the population (para. 6.3) are
indicators of project sustainability. The CHCCs and PHCCs constructed or
rehabilitated under the project have been incorporated into the MOH service
delivery network and continue to provide PHC services. However, the
facilities are subject to the same difficulties that plague the health sector:
maintenance of both facilities and equipment tends to be ad-hoc; material and
supply distribution systems are weak; and staff tend to be drawn to working in
urban, better equipped facilities. The sustainability of the PHC network will
be improved by several key components of the recently approved Health
Management Project (Loan 3574-JO). In this project, maintenance will be
improved by the creation of a central maintenance workshop and 12 hospital-
based workshops; the General Stores and Supplies Department, the department
responsible for procuring and distributing medical equipment and supplies,
will be strengthened, and a staffing study will be completed to identify
staffing problems. The long term sustainability of the project interventions
will be dependent on the Government's continued support to improved health
- 10 -



services delivery, as evidenced by the current Five Year Plan for the health
sector which emphasizes improving the availability and quality of health
services.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1 During project preparation, the Bank devoted considerable resources, in
terms of staff time and mission travel, to identify and prepare the project.
A sector report was completed to identimy key sector issues and how they might
be addressed. Over a 22 month period, i pre-identification, identification,
preparation, two pre-appraisal, an app-.iisal, and a post-appraisal mission
were launched. It was clear that both the Government's and the Bank's
intention was to prepare a well defined, realistic first health project.
8.2 During project implementation, the Bank could be faulted for: (i)
frequently changing the composition of the supervision teams, which hindered
consistency in supervision; (ii) not launching supervision missions
consistently every six months; (iii) transferring task management to the
technical department, a department which was not designed or equipped for
supervision; (iv) not defining clear channels of communication (on several
occasions the Government said that documents were mailed, yet not received by
the appropriate person because of incorrect addresses, documents were given to
one mission member and then not filed appropriately so that the next mission
would ask for the same documents, etc.); and (v) not making more of an effort
to assess the progress and status of the facilities constructed under the
project. Several missions did visit a few facilities; however, a
comprehensive assessment of the status of the facilities was never undertaken.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1 Several excellent staff were appointed to the PMU. It was noted by a
senior disbursement officer from the Bank who visited Jordan in May 1993 that
the accounting records kept by the PMU were excellent. In fact, there was
agreement between the Bank's and the Borrower's accounting books down to the
penny.
9.2 The Borrower could, however, be faulted for: (i) not adequately
supervising the project interventions. The PMU staff stated that supervision
was limited because they did not have access to transportation. Site visits
were, however, the responsibility of the PMU and they should have been
conducted regularly; (ii) the Borrower did not comply with several Loan
Covenants (see Table 7), e.g., the research agenda and training plan which
were to be submitted annually were never completed.
10.   Borrower-Bank Relationship
10.1 The Bank-Borrower relationship was strained at times, particularly out
of frustration on the part of the Borrower as Bank management of the project
changed hands numerous times. Further strain was created by the Bank's
frustration with the Borrower for not complying with several of the Loan
Covenants, despite the repeated requests for compliance in several supervision
reports.
- 11 -



11.   Consulting Services
11.1 Consulting Services were not specified as a separate category of
expenditure in the Loan Agreement (Schedule 1). No technical assistance was
financed under the Loan.
12.   Pro-ect Documentation and Data
12.1 The project was reasonably well documented from the Bank's side and
supervision reports were submitted by each mission. The annual training
schedules and research agenda were never submitted, and a mid-term evaluation
was never completed. The final evaluation submitted by the Borrower was
mainly quantitative rather then qualitative.
- 12-



JORDAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
(LOAN 2531-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower has prepared an "End of Project Evaluation" and a Completion
Report as their contribution to Part II of the PCR. The main extracts
regarding performance and lessons learned are as follows:
1.    Evaluation of the World Bank's Performance
1.1   The overall performance of all Bank missions who visited the country to
supervise the implementation of the project was good. They were a great help
and guided the staff of the Project Management Unit (PMU) towards implementing
project components as required by Bank regulations.  However, frequent change
in missions' personnel was a disadvantage. The PMU used to receive different
missions every now and then, and they would have to orient them from the
beginning, and they were asked things which were asked by previous missions.
1.2   In addition, we believe that communication within the Bank are not as
they should be. It happened, more than once, that documents were sent to the
Bank, either by mail or handed to Bank employees personally, and after that a
second or even third request was received from the Bank for the same document.
2.    Lessons Learned
2.1   Assignment of a fixed Bank mission team to supervise and follow-up
project implementation with no or minimal changes during the project life will
facilitate better communication and ensure better supervision and follow-up of
project implementation activities.
3.    Evaluation of Borrower's Performance
3.1   The PMU managed to implement all project components within their given
authority and responsibility. As for hardware components, there were some
delays and cancellations in implementing some activities of these components.
These delays and cancellations were out of the control of the PMU and they
could not affect them. But the implementation activities were more than
satisfactory.
3.2   The software component activities were not under the authority of the
PMU, and some of these activities were under the control of authority higher
than the PMU structure. Therefore, there were some delays in providing data
related to implementation of these activities and delays in implementing
others.
- 13 -



4.    Lessons Learned
4.1   The placement of the PMU in a higher authoritarian position will help
the unit to control implementation of all project activities and ensure timely
implementation.
- 14 -



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
(LOAN 2531-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Project Title       N bLoan   J Aear  J            Status        |          Comments
|Nurnber    Apyproved I                      I
Second Education Project    534-JO     1975           Completed         Constructed rural development
centers that provide, among
others, intensive courses on
public health, nutrition, and
family care.
Third Education Project    1781-JO     1979           Completed         Constructed 3 comprehensive
secondary schools that provide
vocational training in various
programs, including nursing.
Fourth Education Project   2068-JO     1982           Completed         Constructed the Irbid Institute
for training nurses, midwives,
and technicians.
Manpower Development    2633-JO        1985           Completed         Financed the establishment of
Project                                                                the Nursing/Paramedical
Integrated Training Instirute
(NPITI) in Zarka which would
increase the annual supply of
nurses, midwives, and
technicians.
Health Management II      3574-JO      1993      Project effectiveness  The Project Irnplementation
date has been extended   Unit (PIU) must be
to March 30, 1993      established as per
the condition of the Loan
Agreement before the loan
can be declared effective. The
project's components are being
reassessed, with a view to
restructuring the project
design.
- 15 -



Table 2. Proiect Timetable
Activity    I Planned Date | Revised Date | Actual Date
Pre-ldentification     04/83                        04/83
Identification         06/83                        02/84
Preparation            03/84                        03/84
Pre-Appraisal I        06/84                        06/84
Pre-Appraisal II       09/84           -            09/84
Appraisal              09/84         11/84          11/84
Post-Appraisal         02/85           -            02/85
Loan Negotiations      02/85         03/85          03/85
Board Approval         05/85           -            05185
Loan Signing           07/85           -            07/85
Loan Effectiveness     09/85         02/86          02/86
Project Completion     06/92         05/93          05/93
Loan Closing           12/92         05/93          05/93
Final Disbursement       -             -            07/93
- 16 -



Table 3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Bank Fiscal Year
86         87         88         89          90         91        92      93      94
Appraisal Estimate    0.8        1.8        4.5         8.5       11.7        13.2      13.5
Actual                0.5        1.05       2.8         5.8        6.5        7.4       7.7    8.11    8.14'
% ActualEstimate      65         58          63         68         55         56        56     60       60
% Actual/Loan         3.7        7.7        21          43         48         55        57     60       60
|_______ -    Date of Final Disbursement:  July 2, 1993
1/ Total disbursements amounted to $8,139,330.16. The undisbursed balance of $5,345,141.85 was cancelled from the
loan on July 16, 1993.
- 17 -



Table 4. Proiect Imolementation
Key Project Indicators
Indicators           1 Appraisal | Actual           Achievement as
Targets  J_Achievement   % of Target
A. Civil Works'                                                                 l
PHCs - Construction                25             19              76
PHCs - Rehabilitation               9              9              100
CHCs - Construction                 13            12              92
PHCs - Upgrade to CHCs              4              4              100
B. Health Sector Personnel'
In-Service Training3
Physicians                        175           380             217
Health Care Administrators         20            52             260
Nurses' Trainers                   60            66             110
Pre-Service Training
90           878            975
Midwives__                                       _   _  _
235           358            152
Nurses                        _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _
Medical Technicians               235           1557           662
C. Health Manpower Development Training
CHC Managers                        24            44              183
Family Medicine Specialists         95            13               13
Emergency Medicine Specialists      45            17               37
Other Specialists4                  25            447';          1788
(includes residency training)                 fellowships
abroad, and
local, short-
term courses
l/ Construction of 6 PHCs and I CHC were cancelled in 1989 due to the unavailability of suitable land for the
communities to donate.
_/ Actual results achieved were furnished by the Project Management Unit to the February 1993 supervision mission.
1/ Graduates from all institutions.
4/ Specialists in internal medicine, pediatrics, and obstetrics/gynecology.
I/ Out of this number, 175 went to residency training.
- 18 -



Table 5. Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(USS Million)
Category        | Original Allocation    Actual Disbursements
Works, including                  4.9                   4.1
architectural fees
Furniture                         1.2                   0.3
Equipment and Vehicles            5.5                   3.7
Unallocated'                      1.9                   0.0
TOTAL                     13.5                  8.12
1/Includes $200,000 for consultant services.
2/ Total disbursed funds amounted to $8,139,330.16. Undisbursed funds of $5,345,141.85 were cancelled from the loan
effective July 16, 1993.
- 19 -



Table 5. Proiect Costs and Financing (Continued)
B. Proiect Costs
(USS Million)
Category              Estimated Costs                Actual Costs
Local    Foreign    Total   Local    Foreign   Total
Civil Works              4.9       4.1      9.0       4.6      3.9      8.5
Fumiture                 0.4       1.0      1.4       0.0      0.2      0.2
Equipment & Vehicles     0.5      4.4      4.9        0.0      3.9      3.9
Base Cost                5.8       9.5     15.3       4.6      8.0      12.8
Unallocated              5.6       1.0  |  6.6 |   n/a         n/a  I  n/a   I
Contingencies            4.2      4.5       8.7   [         l
TOTAL COST               15.6     15.0    30.6j ||_ _   21.3
C. Proiect Financing
(USS Million)
Sources            Planned          %         Revised JActualS
I(Planned/Total)                     (Actual/Total)
IBRD Expenditures             13.5           45                 T  8.1            38
Domestic                      170   I        55            -        132           62
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           305           100                     213          100
- 20 -



Table 6. Proiect Results
A. Proiect Studies
Study                          Purpose                          Status                     Impact of Study
Health Manpower Issues         Better understand staffing needs   Not Completed                 Studies which were conducted
at each level of facility.                                      during the project
implementation period did not
Health Care Financing          To assist in planning for the    Not Completed                   cover the topics listed in the
sector and explore the feasibility                              SAR. The studies completed
of charging for services.                                       during the project period
Efficiency of Service Delivery    To monitor the impact of the  Not Completed                   health status of the aged, the
new level of service - the                                      healence of te and
CHCC.                                                           prevalence of goiter, and
nurses training needs. There
Nutrition                      To establish baseline            Not Completed                   are no records of what impact,
information on nutritional status                               if any, the studies that were
of population.                                                  completed may have had on the
health status of the population
Maternal and Child Morbidity   To develop preventive programs   Not Completed                   or the delivery of health
and Mortality                  that target the specific causes of                               services.
high maternal and infant
morbidity and mortality.
Future Projects for the Health,    To strengthen the research   Not Completed
Population, and Nutrition      capacity of the MOH.
Sectors
Mid-Term Evaluation            To assess the efficiency and     Not Completed
effectiveness of project
implementation with the
understanding that changes
could be made accordingly.
Final Evaluation               To complete an accurate          Final evaluation submitted
assessment of project inputs and   which was entirely quantitative,
results.                        and provide no indication of the
qualitative impact of the project
interventions.
- 21 -



Table 6. Proiect Results (Continued)
B. Direct Benefits
Process Indicator               Appraisal Estimate               Estimated Actual
Increase the share of pregnant        from 20% to 40%                        62%
women who receive prenatal
care from MOH
Increase in share of deliveries       from 30% to 40%                        21%
attended by MOH staff
Increase in share of eligible          from 1% to 6%                         3%
couples receiving family
planning services from MOH
Increase in share of children         from 15% to 30%                        89%
under 6 years old who get
MOH well baby care                                      .
Utilization of PHCCs
Physicians (family medicine)          30-50 patients/day                29 patients/day
Specialists (internal medicine,       20-30 patients/day                20 patients/day
pediatrics, general surgery)
- 22 -



Table 7. Compliance with Loan Covenants
Section        Covenant Subject             Deadline                    Status of Compliance                  Discussion
Condition Not   Action         Condition
Complied        Pending      | Met
With
3.01(b)   Borrower shall maintain the                                                            X
Project Management Unit
(PMU) with a full-time staff
to include a director, two
architects, one accountant,
one procurement specialist,
and an adequate number of
support staff                                                                                                      l
3.02(a)   Borrower shall submit to    July 31 of each year        X
the Bank each year the
training program to be
undertaken under the
project for the following
year and to be implemented
after final review and
comments from the Bank
3.03     Borrower shall review with   September 30 of            X                                        Yearly research
the Bank its research       each year                                                           proposals were not
program proposal for                                                                            submitted; the
implementation during the                                                                       studies which
following calendar year                                                                         were completed
did not cover the
research topics as
defined in the
SAR.
3.04     Borrower shall acquire all    July 1986                                                X
of the sites required for the
first phase of construction
under the project
4.01(a)   Borrower shall have all                                                                X
records and accounts,
including the Special
Account, audited; submit to
the Bank a certified copy of
audited reports no later than
6 months after the end of
such year; and furnish any
additional related
information as may be
requested by the Bank
- 23 -



Section        Covenant Subject            Deadline                     Status of Compliance                 Discussion
Condition Not   Action         Condition
Complied        Pending        Met
With
4.02(a),   Borrower shall:
(b) and    (a) submit a mid-term       December 31, 1988          X                                       Mid-term
(c)           evaluation of the project;                                                                  evaluation was not
carried out
(b) discuss subsequent                                 X
recommendations of the
mid-term evaluation
with the Bank and;
(c) submit a final evaluation   December 31, 1991                                    X         Report was mainly
of the project                                                                              quantitative and
was completed by
December 1992
- 24 -



Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inputs
Type of       Fiscal  |        Staff/Consultant Specialties       Staffweeks
Mission    |  Year   I
Preparation       1984      ARC, ECN, HS, MSP, REA                      30 5
Pre-Appraisal     1985      ARC, ECN, HS                                25.1
Appraisal         1985      ARC, ECN, HS, OA                            45.5
Post-Appraisal    1985      ARC, ECN                                ____        |
Negotiations      1985      DO, LEG, LO, OA                             4.2
Total for                                                              107.3
Preparation
Supervision       1986      ARC, ECN, HP, 00                            25.0
Supervision       1987      ARC, ECN, HP, POP                           19.4
Supervision       1988      ARC, ECN, HP, POP, 00, HS,                  8.8
Supervision       1989      ARC, ECN, HP, ITA, POP                      14.7
Supervision       1990      ARC, OO, PO, HS                             5.6
Supervision       1991      ARC, ETN, HP, 00                            4.3
Supervision       1992      ARC, ETN, HS, 00, OA, PO, PS                14.9
Supervision       1993     ARC, ETN, 00, PO, PS                         7.2
Total for                                                               100
Supervision                                                                     l
Completion        1993      HS, HRS                                     4.0
Total for the                                                          211.3
Project
STAFF/SPECIALTIES
ARC              Architect
DO               Disbursement Officer
ECN              Economist
ETN              Education/Training Specialist
HS               Health Specialist
HRS              Human Resources Specialist
- 25 -



LEG              Legal Counsel
LO               Loan Officer
MSP              Management
00               Operations Officer
OA               Operations Assistant
PO               Project Officer
POP              Population Specialist
PS               Procurement Specialist
REA              Research Assistant
- 26 -



