Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
v&Q. ;'s/- Jo
Report No. 5441-JO
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE1 PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 11, 1985
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
Division III
This document has a restwied idstibi   and my be used by recipients only in the perfonmaut   on
lbe  1fie   dw      bs eoot     my not tberwise be dbelsede witboot Woril Bank  toriton.



CURRENCY EOUIVALEN IS
Currency Unit = Jordan Dinar (JD)
JD .395 = US$1.00
JD 1.00 = US$2.53
GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paste Number
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .C...................  .                 iii
DEFIITIONS  .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . .
GLOSSARY    . . . . . . .   . . . ..                              vii
I  INTRODUCTION   . . . . . . . . . .         .   .  .  .  .  .   .    1
II  THE HEALTH SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A.  Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1
B. The Health Care System   .                                ........ ......  4
C. Key Health Sector Constraints   . . . . . . . . . . .       8
III  GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGIES FOR THE HEALTH SECTOR  . . . . . . . .    12
A. Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . .     12
B. Health Serv      ices..................                    12
C.  Health Manpower Development . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
D. Health, Population, and Nutrition Education . . . . .      15
E.  Planning and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
F. PC and CHC Facilities  a         ..a a a a &               16
G. Community Involvement . . . . . . . . . * . . . * * *    16
IV THE BANKSS ROLE  . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . .                  17
A. Previous Involvement  ..............  .                    17
B.  Rationale for Future Bank Involvement . . . . . . . .    17
V  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
A. Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
B. Project Targets . . . ... . . . . . ... .. . . .           18
C.  Project Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
D.  Summary Project Composition . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
E.  Detailed Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited
Jordan in November 1984. Mission members included Richard Skoluik,
Dr. Anthony Measham, Juliana Weissman, Suzanne McLees, and Eid Dib (Consultant).
This document has a restriked distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance or
their officil duties. Its contents may not othewise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



{(ii)
Pate Nunber
VI  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN.. . .  .    . . . ......        24
A.  Cost of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
B. Project Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
C. Costs of the New Service Delivery Model . . . . . . .    26
D.  Project Recurrent Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
VII  PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION  ...................                      28
A. Status of Project Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
B. Project Management Arrangements . . . . . . , . . . .    28
C.  Specialist Services and Fellowships . . . . . . . . .    29
D.    Sit es  ent .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 2   .    . .  .  .  29
E. Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ......        30
F. Disbursements  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  . .     .    32
G. Accounts and '.udits . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        33
H. Project Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . . . . . . .    33
VIII PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  .................                   33
A.    Benefits    .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .   .  *  *  *  *  *33
B.   Risks   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .    .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  34
IX AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIODS  . . . . . . . . . . .    34
Annexes
1. Health and Population Data Sheet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37
2. List of Major Documents in the Project File . . .  . . . . . .    39
3. DetailedCotTa       able......................                    40
4. Financing Plan by Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
5. Financing Plan by Component and Category of Expenditure   . . .    42
6.  Summary rroject Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . .    43
7. Training Scheule . . . .  ...................                     46
8.  Summary Implementation Schedule for Nev Service Delivery Model.    47
9. Schedule of Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    48
Map IBRD No. 18690



(iii)
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
PRIKARY HEALTH C hE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJEC;T SUNMARY
Jorrower                 The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Deasficiary              The Ministry of Health
sA| t                    US$13.5 million equivalent
TerM                     15 years, with 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Project Deecriptism      The project would support the Government's
efforts to reorganize primary health care (PHC)
and would improve the coverage, quality, and
efficiency of PHC, including birth spacing
services, and of outpatient referral care in
the basic medical specialties. The project
would include: (a) the establishment of 25
new PEC centers; the refurbishing of 9 PBC
centers; and the establishment of 17 comprehensive
hea.Lh care centers; (b) training for personnel
at all levels who would work in the new health
care facilities; (c) audio-visual equipment,
materials, and vehicles to improve and expand
health education; and (d) funds for local
consultants for evaluation of the project,
research on key sector topics, preparation
of future projects, and project management.
The project is expected to reach about one-third
of Jordan's population, including a large number
of urban and rural poor. It should have a
significant impact on healtb and, in particular,
help bring about a reductitn in mortality and
morbidity of women of childbearing age, infants,
and children. The main risk of the project
is that the demand for MOR services may be
less than anticipated. This risk is being
addressed by involving communities in the project.
at an early stage and by linking improvements
in quality and coverage of bealth care with
an improved referral system.



(Lv)
ESTIMATED COST BY COMPONENT:            Local      Foreign      Total
A. Improving Health Care Services  5.7           9.0       14.7
B. Bealth Manpower Development      5.3          1.0        6.3
C. Expanding Bealth Education       0.0 1/      0.4         0.4
D. Strengthening Planning,
Management, Research,
and Evaluation                 0.3         0.1        0.4
Base Cost                       11.3        10.5        21.8
Physical Contingencies          0.6         1.0         1.6
Price Increases                 3.6         3.5         7.1
TOTAL COST           15.5         15.0       30.5
FINANCING PLAN:
Proposed World Bank Loan        0.0        13.5        13.5
Government Contribution        15.5         1.5        17.0
TOTAL            15.5         15.0       30.5
ESTIMATED DISBURSENENTS:
Bank Fiscal Year
1986   1987    1988   1989   1990   199l   1992
Annual                 0.8    1.0      2.7    4.0    3.2    1.5    0.3
Cumulative             0.8    1.8      4.5    8.5   11.7   13.2   13.3
11 A small amount is not shown due to rounding.



(v)
HsAEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEFINITIONS OF POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION TERMS
Adult Literacy Rate                   The percentage of persons aged
15 and over who can read and write.
Child Mortality Rate                  Annual deaths of children 1-4 years
per 1,000 children in the same
age group.
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate         The percentage of married women
of reproductive age who are using
a modern method of contraception
at any time.
Crude Birth Rate                      Number of live births per year
per 1,000 people.
Crude Death Rate                      Number of deatho per year per 1,000
people.
Degree of Malnutrition                The Gomez classification scale
distinguishes three degrees in
malnutrition, namely:
first (mild)      - 75-90Z of expected
(or standard)
veight for
age
second (moderate) - 65-75Z of expected
weight
third (severe)      -under 60%
of expected weight or suffering
from edema.
Dependency Ratio                      Population 14 years or under and
65 years or over as percentage
of population aged 15 to 64 years.
Incidence Rate                        The number of persons contracting
a disease as a proportion of the
population at risk, per unit of
time; usually expressed per 1,000
persons per year.



(vi)
Infant Mortality Rate                 Annual deaths of infants under
1 year per 1,000 live births during
the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth              The number of years a newborn child
would live if subject to the age-specific
mortality rates prevailing at time
of birth.
Low Birth Weight (LBW)                Infant weight at birth less thun
2,500 gr. LBW may be associated
with either pre-term (less than
37 weeks gestation) or full-term
but small-for-dates (38 veeks or
mora) of gestation.
Maternal Mortality Rate               Number of maternal deaths per 1,000
births in a given year attributable
to pregnancy, childbirth or post-
partum.
Morbidity                             The frequency of disease and illness
in a population.
Mortality                             The frequency of deaths in a population.
Neonatal Mortality Rate               The number of deaths of infants
under 28 days of age in a given
year per 1,000 live births in that
year.
Perinatal Mortality Rate              The number of fetal deaths after
28 veeks of pregnancy and of infant
deaths under 7 days of age in a
given year per 1,000 live births.
Prevalence Rate                       The number of persons having a
particular disease at a given point
in time per population at risk;
usually expressed per 1,000 persons
per year.
Rate of Natural Increase              Difference between crude birth
and crude death rates; usually
expressed as a percentage.
Total Fertility Rate                  The average number of cbildren
a woman will have if she experiences
a given set of age-specific fertility
rates throughout her lifetime.
Serves as an estimate of average
number of children per family.



(vii)
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GLOSSARY
COC          -    Comprehensive Health Care Center
11          -    International Planned Parenthood Federation
1113         -    Intrauterine Device
JFPPA        -    Jordan Family Planning and Protection Agency
JAR          -    Jordan University Hospital
NCR          -    Maternal and Child Realth
man          -    Ministry of Health
P9C          -    Primary Health Care Center
PM.          -    Project Management Unit
PMB          -    Royal Medical Services
uNA          -    United Nations Relief Works Agency
YC           -    Village Clinic



HASREITZ KINGDOM OF JORDAN 1/
PRIMY DSELT! CARN PROJECT
5TAY7 APPRAISAL REPORT
I  INTRODUCTION
1.01      A World Bank mission carried out a review of the health sector
in Jordan in June 1983 and in November 1983 the bank produced a draft
sector report.2/ (The final version of the report, the Jordan. 4ealtk
Sector Review  Report No. 4748-JO, was issued Kay 26, 1984).  The main
conclusions of that report concerning sectoral constraints were: (a)
although chronic degenerative diseases are increasing in prevalence,
the major health problems in Jordan remain preventable communicable
diseases, particularly asmog infants and children, and complications
of pregnancy and childbirth; (b) Goverment investments in the health
sector in the last few years overemphasized hospital services at the
expense of primary bealth care; (c) the primary bealth care system in
Jordan does not reach required levels of coverage; and (d) given
prevailing health risks and available financial resources, the most
cost-effective investment in the health sector for Jordan would be to
improve the coverage, quality, and efficiency of primary health care.
1.02      In January 1984, a Bank mission discussed the preliminary
version of the sector report with Government. The Government agreed
with the major conclusions of the report and proposed a health project
to be considered for World Bank financing which would address the main
issues identified in it. The project would ezpand the coverage, quality,
and efficiency of primary bealth care and referral care in the basic
specialties, with a special emphasis on mternal and child health.
To address these objectives, it would strengtbhe primary healtb care
services, including birth spacing services, develop health sector
personnel, expand bealtb education, improve sector management, and add
required physical infrastructure. The main beneficiaries of the project
vould be people from lower socio-economic groups who depend on the
Ministry of Realth for health care, particularly women and young children.
II. THE REALTh ECTOR
A.   ackzround.
2.01      Economic and Social Trends.  The economy of Jordan grew rapidly
over the last decade and GNP per capita rose from about $400 in 1973
to $1,700 in 1983. Government has placed a high priority on humua
resources development *nd has made considerable progress in expanding
education and training. Primary schooling is now universal, enrollment
rates are about 902 at the lower secondary level and 702 at the senior
secondary level, and the adult literacy rate has doubled in the past
11 All references to Jordan refer only to the East Bank of Jordan.
2/ Most data that follow for the health sector are for 1982 since the
sector review was based largely on data for that year.



- 2 -
twenty years from 322 to 70%. In addition, alsost all Jordanian households
now have electricity and about two-thirds have access to safe water.
2.02      The social and economic patterns noted above have important
implications for the health sector. First, the pace of social and economic
change in Jordan has been rapid and over the medium and long term thoe.
changes will have a major influence on health, particularly on personal
hygiene, demand for health care, and the practice of birth spacing.
Second, it is essential in the short and medium term that Jordan address
remaining pockets of poverty and the illness and death from preventable
causes that remain too prevalent among rural and lower socio-economic
status groups. Third, the economy is not likely to grow as fast in
the next decade as it did in the previous one, it now has considerable
infrastructure to support, and Government's recurrenL budgets will probably
come under increasing pressure. Hence, it is important for the health
sector to develop in a cost-efficient manner.
2.03      Current and Proiected Pogulation.  The population of the East
Bank of Jordan is about 2.5 million. The rate of natural increase
is 3.4% per year but population growth, which includes substantial
imigration, is 4% per year. Both of these rate3 are very high,
particularly for an upper middle-income country. The population of
the East Bank will total 4.3 million in the year 2000 if it grows at
the current rate of natural increase.
2.04      rrtility-and Mor-tality.  Despite some decline over the last
two decades, fertility remains very high. The total fertility rate
was estimated at 9.0 live births per woman in 1961-1962 and 7.0 in 1983.
The crude birth rate has dropped from 50 per 1,000 population in the
early 1960s to 45 per 1,000 people for 1982-1984. This rate is also
very high. The mean number of children born to rural women is bigher
for all age groups than the number born ti urban women. In contrast
to fertility, mortality ha. declined rapidly since the early 1960s,
primarily as a result of improved living conditions and better access
to health care. The crude death rate has been reduced from about 20
per 1.000 in 1960 to 11 per 1.000 in 1983. The present rate is above
the average of 8 for an upper middle-income country.
2.05      Age Structure and Population Distribution.  Jordan has a
relatively youthful population, due largely to its high fertility rate.
Children under 15 years of age comprise about 50S of the total population
end Jordan, therefore, has a high dependency ratio. About 70% of the
population resides in urban areas and almost a third of the population
lives in the capital area alone. The average population density is
36 persons per square kilometer. However, population density is 204
people per square kilometer of agricultural land, which is relatively
high.
2.06      Health Status.  Life expectancy in 1982 was 64 years, which
is about average for upper middle-income countries as a whole. Infant



- 3 -
mortality has registered a major decline, from 151 per 1,000 live births
in 1961 to about 69 per 1,000 live births in 1983. However, that rate
is higber than the average for upper middle-income countries, which
ie 58. It is also seven times the average rate in the industrialized
market economies. Jordan now exhibits a mixed pattern of morbidity
and mortality, comprised of the chronic disease profile of industrialized
countries and the infectious diseAse pattern typical of developing countries.
2.07      The pattern of adult mortality has 'iegun to resemble that
of an industrialized country. Although data are based only on registered
deaths, it appears that the leading causes of death for those over 15
years of age are heart and circulatory disease, respiratory disease,
accidents, and cancer. Tuberculosis and other infectious diseases are
no longer among the leading causes of adult mortality. Despite the
reduction in infant and child mortality in the last two decad6s, most
infant and child deaths are still caused by preventable diseases.
Diarrheal and respiratory diseases account for more than half the deaths
of children under five years of age. In addition, communicable diseases
preventable by imunization, such as measles and tetanus, still cause
infant and child deaths. birth intervals are strongly correlated With
residence and education; the more rural and les educated, ;ne shorter
the birth interval. The average interval between births is only 18
months and child survival could be increased by better birth spacing.
A study in 1976, for example, indicated that the infant deatb rate averaged
92 per 1,000 live births for children spaced less than 24 oonthe apart
but only 38 per 1,000 live birt;o for children spaced 24 to 35 months
apart. Thus, the infant mortality rate for children born close together
is just above the average rate in lower middle-income countries and
reflects serious problems of health care coverage.
2.08      The morbidity pattern is becoming similar to those of other
middle-income countries. Diarrheal and respiratory diseases are the
most important causes of illness for all age groups and particularly
affect lover income groups. Imuno-preventable diseases such as measles,
diphtheria, polio, whooping cough, tetanus, and tuberculosis are declining
in prevalence, but still occur. There are imported cases of malaria
and schistosomiosis but parasitic diseases are generally not a major
problem.  Hoaver, giardiasis and amebissis are prevalent.  Hospital
outpatient visits are dominated by diarrheal and respiratory diseases
and the leading causes of admission to hospital are uncomplicated
deliveries, digestive diseases, accidents, respiratory diseases, and
complications of pregnancy.
2.09      Nutritional Status   The prevalence of malnutrition appears
to be relatively low. Studies condu-ted in 1974 of rural children and
in 1981 of children in squatter areas of Ainan suggest that the mlnutrition
problems that do e.st are related to poverty, young age of new mothers.
bigb fertility. inadequate breastfeeding and diet supplementation, and
deficiency in knowledge of dietary and health practices. Malnutrition



-4-
appears to be more co  on in girls than in boys, particularly among
poorer families.
B. The Health Care Slstem
2.10      Recent Developments.  The number of physicians, hospital beds,
and MOH primary health care centers more than doubled during the last
two decades and tb'e existing health infrastructure is spread relatively
equitably in all regions. However, despite these improvements, about
40% of the families in Jordan do not get adequate primary health care,
particularly for their women and young children. More is said of problems
of coverage in paragraphs 2.29 and 2.30.
2.11      Health-Care Providers.   There are four main providers of
health services in Jordan. The Ministry of Health (MOE) is the major
one and serves about 60% of the population. Its beneficiaries include
more than 75,000 civil servants and their families, from whom 2X of
salary is deducted for this purpose. The NOR also offers free medical
care to families certified as indigent by the Ministry of Social Welfare.
In addition, the MOH provides free maternal and child health care and
treatment for some communicable diseases and cancer. Any Jordanian
not in the groups noted above may receive MOH care on a fee-for-service
basis.
2.12      The Royal Medical Services (RMS) is the health care division
of the armed forces. The RMS accounts for nearly one-third of all hospital
beds and has health facilities in major population centers. Members
of the armed-forces pay JDO.5 per mouth for full RMS coverage for themselves
and their dependents and the ENS also provides services to reservists
and retired members of the armed forces. Individuals requiring specialized
care not available elsewhere may use RMS services on a fee-for-service
'lasis.
2.13      The United Nations-Relief Works Atency (UNRWA) provides primary
care to refugees through its 17 health centers and reimburses other
providers for the costs of inpatient hospital care for its beneficiaries.
UNRIWA provides services largely to the refugee population which lives
in camps. However, a majority of those classified as refugees live
outside of camps and seek their health care from other providers.
2.14      The Jordan University Hospital (JUB) provides hospital services
to the Jordan University community and some other groups on the basis
of payroll deductions or insurance premiums. It also serves as a referral
hospital for other parts of the health system, on a fee-for-service
basis.
2.15      The private health sector is very active in Jordan. About
half the population use the private sector to some degree and about
10 to 15% of the population use it exclusively. There are 1,300 private
physicians in Jordan, numerous private clinics, and 24 private hospitals,



- 5 -
whicb contain 232 of all hospital beds. Private physicians work largely
in cities and large towns; few are found in small towns or rural areas.
2.16      The table below suwnarizes the distributiou of major health
infrastructure by provider in 1982.
Table 1: Maior Health Facilities by Provider. 1982
No.of      No. of    2 of    No. of Health    No. of
Organization     Hospitals  Hospital    Total       Centers       Physicians
_____________   _________  Beds  Beds
Ministry of Health   14      1,652       35.8         174 La         757
Royal Medical         6      1,452       31.4          14            474
Services
Jordan University     1        462       10.0           -            213
Private Sector       24      1,053       22.8           -          1,252
UNRWA                 -           -        -           17           N.A.
Total                45      4,619      100.0           5          2,696
/a Includes 96 Primary Health Care Centers and 78 NCR Centers
2.17      Coveraxe.  It is difficult to make reliable estimates of
coverage by health care provider because many individuals are eligible
for and make use of services from more than one provider and because
it is not easy to get valid estimates of private sector services.
Nonetheless, one can draw a few general conclusions about coverage.
First, many people in Jordan do not have good physical access to private
sector medical care. Second, the MOB is virtually the only provider
of health care outside of large towns and cities. Third, the MOH is
likely to be the only accessible and affordable source of health care
for most of the rural and lower socio-economic groups in Jordan.
2.18      Orfanization of MOB Services.   NOR health care services are
presently organized in four levels:
(a) Village clinics (VCs), which are staffed by an assistant
nurse and visited twice a week by a physician from a primary health
care center. The VCs offer treatment of simple health problems and
screening of cases for referral to physicians.
(b) Primary health care centers (PHCs), which are staffed
by, at least, a physician, a practical nurse, and an assistant pharmacist.
The PECs offer immunization, first-line treatment of illnesses, and



-6-
referral to specialists. Some PHCs provide dental services. Very few
PHCs have laboratories but all have pharmacies.
At the same level of care, there are maternal and child
health (MCR) care centers. These are generally staffed by a midwife
and a practical nurse and visited twice a week by a physician from a
related primary health care center. The NCR centers offer immunization,
well baby care, and pre- and post-natal care.
(c) Regional hospitals which offer outpatient specialty clinics
and inpatient services.
(d) The Al Bashir Hospital in Amman, which has outpatient
specialty clinics, inpatient services, and serves as the main referral
hospital for the MOH system. In addition, the Princess Basma Hospital
in Irbid is increasingly serving as a referral hospital for maternity
services in the northern part of Jordan.
2..L9     Maternal and Child Health and Birth Spacing Services.  Given
that young children and women of childbearing age constitute the most
vulnerable groups from the health standpoint, it is important to highlight
a number of points concerning existing MCH services. First, the NOR
has been offering these services in MCH centers which are physically
separate from primary health care centers. Second, midwives are responsible
for NCR services but not all NCR centers have a midwife because they
are in short supply. Third, primary health care certers generally have
not offered pre- and post-natal care for mothers or well baby care for
children. These factors have constrained both the quality and coverage
of MCR services and the MOR through the proposed project would implement
a new approach to NCR care, as noted in Sections III and V of this report.
2.'?0     Birth spacing services are an important part of MCH care.
About 26% of the women of reproductive age use some form of contraception,
an increase from 23% in 1976. Among those couples who do practice
contraception, about 30% use the pill, 30% the intrauterine device (IUD),
15% contraceptive sterilization, 20% rhythm and withdrawal, and 5% condons.
The 26% rate of contraceptive prevalence in Jordan compares with rates
of 27% in Morocco, 41% in Tunisia, 49% in Colombia, and 54% in Korea.
Contraceptive prevalence is strongly related to residence, and the rates
of contraceptive usage are about 37% in the largest cities, 22% in other
urban areas, and 12Z in rural areas. Differences by educational level
of women are also high; contraceptive prevalence is 17% among women
with no education and 35% for women with at least seven years of education.
2.21      The private sector provides the bulk of birth spacing services
in Jordan and serves about 18% of the women of reproductive age. The
major institutional provider of family planning services is the Jordan
Family Planning and Protection Association (JFPPA). This affiliate
of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) has 15 clinics
on the East Bank and provides services to about 7% of the women of



- 7 -
reproductive age.  .he NOH provides family planning services to about
IZ of the women of reproductive age. The low level of NOR birth spacing
services stems from the continuing sensitivity to family planning in
Jordan and the lack of an effective NOR family planning program, as
vill be discussed in Section III. Government makes pills available
in most MCH centers and IUDs in a few. The MOR and the RMS also provide
pills, IUDs, and sterilizations in some of their hospitals. In addition,
MOR and RNS hospitals carry out about 50% of the total number of
sterilizations performed in Jordan each year, with the private sector
carrying out the other 50%. Sterilizations in Jordan are performed
largely on older women with a large number of children, for vhomn another
pregnancy could be life-threatening.
2.22      Health Expenditure and Financing.  Total expenditure on health
in 1982 was about 5.2% of GDP which was above average for middle-income
countries. Government accounted for 58% of total expenditure, the private
sector for 41Z, and UNRWA for 1%. Public expenditure on health increased
in real terms from 1978 to 1982 and grew over that period from 10 to
11% of Government's annual recurrent expenditure.  Public recurrent
expenditure on health as a proportion of GNP, however, fell from 2.4%
in 1978 to 2.1% in 1982. Public expenditure on health in 1982 was about
US$39 equivalent per capita. This figure is around the average for
middle-income countries. The MOR since 1976 has spent annually about
14% of its recurrent budget on preventive care ind 72% on curative care.
2.23      Each of the major health care providers has its own funding
sources. The MOR operates principally on allocations from the central
government. However, the principle of people paying at least a part
of the cost of MOH services and the full cost of drugs is well established
in Jordan. At present, the fees for NOR services are about US$.75 per
visit to a general practitioner and US$2.50 per visit to a specialist
and the patients pay the full cost of any pharmaceuticals which are
prescribed. Patients also pay about US$6.30 for each day they stay
in hospital, which includes the price of pharmaceuticals. Patients'
fees and payroll deductions from the civil service insurance scheme
comprise 10-15% of total MOR funds and are projected to grow to about
30% of total funds in the next five years. Most RMS funds come from
the central budget but the RNS also receives patients' fees and fees
from MOR referrals. The JU7 receives direct budget allocations and
a transfer from the Jordan University budget. In addition, fees from
patients and deductions from the university employees' insurance scheme
make up about 33Z of its funds. Several of the largest private sector
employers carry third party health insurance for their staff. However,
most people pay for medical services from their own funds.
2.24      Health Sector Personnel. The table below shows the number
of health sector personnel and compares Jordan with other countries
in its income group.



Table 2: JORDAN: HEALTH MANPOWER. 1982
Category of         Total             Jordan        Population per Staff
Personnel                          Population       Upper Hiddle-Income
per Staff             Country
Physician            2,696                896               2,021 la
Dentist                532             4,540                   -
Pharmacist             755             3,200                   -
Staff Nurse            946             2,550                1,024
Midvife                266              9,080                  -
Health Technician   2,996                 806
/a  Figures are for 1980.  The comparator figure for nurses is defined
as "nursing person' and includes more than "staff nurses."
Although the comparator figures must be treated with caution, the table
does indicate the major imbalance in Jordan between the number of
physicians and the number of nursing and midwifery staff. A much higher
ratio of nurses and midwives to physicians vill be needed to provide
efficient primary health care over the long term, as discussed later.
In the medium term, however, the NOH will need to depend on physicians
for major roles in the public health system since: (a) they are available
in adequate numbers; (b) physicians are not as "expensive" in Jordan
as in many other countries, relative to GNP per capita or to the salaries
of other health care personnel.
2.25      Jordan is in the process of developing an extensive training
system for health care personnel. It already has the capacity to train
physicians in most specialties and is now establishing programs to satisfy
the demand for nurses, midwives, technicians, and health care administrators.
Dentists were trained outside of Jordan until this year but the University
of Jordan now has a dental school.
C. Key Healtb Sector Constraints
2.26      Overview. Government has made considerable progress in developing
the health sector over the last decade. Today, Jordan has a good stock
of physicians in most fields and one of the more successful programs
in the world for immunization against childhood diseases. The coverage
rates for diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, and polio, for example, are
about 80%. The MOH also has relatively efficient systems of procurement,
finance, and accounting and an adequate supply for the public health
system of appropriate pharmaceuticals.
2.27      However, as noted in comments on mortality, there remains
a considerable amount of illness and death vhich is preventable,
particularly among lower socio-economic groups and infants, children,
and women of reproductive age. This stems partly from an unsatisfactory



level of coverage of primary health care. The main challenge confronting
the health sector is how Government can rapidly and efficiently improve
the health of women and young children and reduce the infant mortality
rate.
2.28      As noted in paragraph 1.01 and in more detail in the ieallb
Sector Review, there are several areas of the health care system which
need improvement. First, the health system does not cover a satisfactory
share of the population, particularly of infants, children, and women
of childbearing age. Second, some parts of the health care system do
not operate efficiently. Third, there are critical imbalances in the
availability of key health sector personnel. Finally, planning and
management of the health system need to be strengthened. These points
are explored briefly below.
2.29      Limited Coverage.  Many people do not get essential health
care services. This contrib'ites to people becoming ill and dying from
preventable diseases. In addition, the failure to prevent illness or
treat it at an early stage often makes it necessary for people to seek
hospital treatment, which is costly. The problems of limited coverage
are particularly important for pregnant women, for infants, and for
children. Ralf of all pregnant women, for ample, receive no pre-natal
care.  In addition, only 10% of all pregnant women receive i:nization
against tetanus, 40Z of all births are not attended by a trained bealtb
care professional, and 50Z of the infants and children do not receive
well baby care. The failure of the system to cover a larger share of
the population stems largely from problems of quality and efficiency,
as noted below.
2.30      The NOR also fails to provide adequate birth spacing services.
The lack of NOR birth spacing services is largely a result of the
inability of the NOH, in a sensitive local environment, to for ulate
a coherent program of birth spacing services wbich it expects its staff
to carry out a3 a bigh priority. High fertility and short birth intervals
have a deleterious effect on the healtb of mothers and children and
further improvements in life expectancy will depend largely on reducing
the infant mortality rate. In addition, the NOR provides birth spacing
services to only 1S of the target group and the contraceptive prevalence
rate for the country as a whole is only 261. Hence, it is essential
for health reasons that the public health system expand its provision
of birth spacing services. It is also critical to improve the NOR
provision of birth spacing services because the NOR is the most important
potential supplier of those services to the lower socio-economic groups
which are most in need of them and asong vhom there is an unmet demand
for services, according to recent studies.
2.31      Realth. Population. and Nutrition Education.  The MDO  has
only recently begun to develop health, population, and nutrition education.
There are few trained health educators and there are not yet enough
trained Jordanians to staff fully the health education unit in the NOR



- 10 -
or any health education posts at the governorate levels. Largely for
this reason, Jordan has not encouraged health education until recently.
Hence, few health education materials have been developed, the media
provide little information about health, family planning, or nutrition,
and there are almost no health education materials in MOH or other public
facilities. Communications are very good in Jordan and it should be
relatively easy to provide health, population, and nutrition information
to all Jordanians once the MOB develops appropriate and suitable materials.
2.32      Efficiency.  The MOE needs to improve the efficiency and quality
of its health care system as it seeks to expand coverage. First, it
must take a more active approach to providing primary health care since
the primary health care system has traditionally waited for people to
come to it rather than seeking out people in need. Second, the MOH
needs to address "structural" issues concerning MCR services. The inability
of the health care system to cover a larger share of the most vulnerable
groups stems partly from the separation between NCH care and otber primary
care, as noted earlier. It also stems from a sbortage of midwives and
the fact that physicians and other health care personnel do not offer
much MCH care in the absence of midwives. Lastly, the MCH centers offer
different services on different days, rather than all services each
day, and this, too, discourages women from seeking MCH services for
themselves and their children.  Taken together, these factors make it
inconvenient and costly in time and energy for a woman to get pre- and
post-natal care for herself and well baby care for her children.
2.33      Problems of quality and the lack of some services also discourage
people from seeking health care in MOE centers. Village clinics, for
example, are generally staffed by a male nurse who can deal with only
simple bealth problems. In addition, many women, particularly among
the lower income groups, do not feel comfortable seeking MCH care from
a male nurse. Moreover, more than 90% of the MCH centers and PHCs are
housed in rented buildings, many of which are unsuitable for use as
a medical facility. Generally, they lack a laboratory, physicians
are absent wben attending village clinics, and many do not provide dental
services. Hence, people frequently avoid going to the center nearest
their home and go instead to hospital polyclinics.
2.34      A similar and even more critical situation exists concerning
childbirth. At the moment, a woman may deliver a baby either at home
or in the hospital, which may be quite distant from the woman's home.
There is no intermediate level facility close to most communities in
which a woman who is not at high risk can deliver. This factor is a
major reason why 40Z of all births are not attended by a trained health
care professional and why the vast majority of attended births take
place in hospitals in the major cities.
2.35      The lack of services of acceptable quality has, in fact,
contributed to an overwhelming demand for outpatient care at hospital
clinics and for hospital maternity services. As a result, relatively



- 11 -
expensive hospital services are frequently used for activities which
could be carried out more efficiently at a lower level of the health
care system. In addition, the demand for hospital services has frequently
been much greater than the hospitals could meet and quality has suffered
as a result. Specialists in hospital outpatient clinics, for example,
often see 60 to 70 patients per day and some hospital maternity services
are overcrowded and forced to send some women home shortly after delivery
who ought to remain in the hospital for health reasons.
2.36      Health Sector Personnel.   Jordan does not have the right
numbers or the right types of personnel to carry out the most critical
health care services. First, there is an absolute shortage of midwives,
female nurses, and laboratory technicians, and many of the small number
of qualified nurses are expatriates with language barriers which decrease
their efficiency. Second, the vast majcrity of qualified nurses and
midwives work in hospitals, leaving few to serve in the primary health
care system. Third, there is a surplus of general practitioners and
physicians in some specialties. At the moment, for example, there is
a waiting list of about 150 general practitioners who seek employment
in the MOB. Finally, there are few qualified health care administrators.
2.37      The MOR also needs to address some questions of training and
career development for bealth sector personnel. The education of many
health personnel, for example, lacked attention to public health issues,
maternal and child health care, and family planning. This is especially
true of physicians, most of whom have been trained outside of Jordan,
and who will need some public health training to play their role efficiently
in the new service delivery model for primary bealth care. In addition,
the separation of MCH care from other primary care has led to the feeling
among NOR personnel that MCR care belongs to midwives, rather than being
a priority which all health care personnel should address. Third, general
practitioners have little chance for increasing financial rewards other
than by becoming a specialist. Lastly, it has been difficult to encourage
Jordanian women to become nurses and midwives. Many Jordanians perceive
these to be low status occupations and families have been unvilling
to send their daughters away from their communities to pursue them.
2.38      Health Sector Planning and Manstement.  Government needs to
improve several areas of health sector planning and management.
Improvements are required in the MOB management information system since
the MOB has lacked the statistical information necessary to plan and
manage the sector. There are also important gaps in Jordan in the
supervision of health care personnel. The staff available for supervision
have not grown with the rest of the system and personnel at all levels
are carrying out their work with insufficient supervision. The referral
system also needs strengthening. To encourage people to use services
closest to their homes, the MOB will need to improve the quality of
its primary health care services and put in place a more efficient referral
system. The MOR also needs to employ an increasing number of professional



- 12 -
health care administrators. Health care services at the moment are
almost always managed by physicians with little training in administration.
Finally, Government must improve long-term planning for the health sector,
since bealth conditiona and the demands on NOR services are changing
rapidly, and since looming financial constraints on Government's recurrent
expenditures vill require increasing attention to the cost-efficiency
of bealth care services. To address these issues, it will also be
necessary to improve budgeting sad accounting procedures and generate
better informtion on the cost of particular services.
III. GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGIES FOR THE HLALTH SECTOR
A. Overview
3.01      The Government proposed in its 1981-85 development plan to
exten the coverage of health services by strengthening primary health
care activities, and constructing 36 new health centers and 150 new
XCi centers. Government also planned to construct 2,300 hospital beds.
3.02      Government has revised its plan targets due largely to
unanticipated finacial constraints and the conclusions of a recent
review of sectoral priorities. The most important change in investment
plans was the decision to suspend most of the program for hospital construction
and focus NOR efforts, instead, on primary health care.
3.03      The MR has also decided to reorganize its approach to primary
health care and to referral care in order to make the bealtb care system
sore dynamic and more efficient. The new NOR approach will be based
on a comprehensive series of measures linking improvements in health
services, training. health education, anagement, and health facilities.
The efforts that are plauned follow many of the conclusions of the Realth
iSnctr Review and the outcome of the Bank's sector policy discussions
with Government and the main aim of the proposed project would be to
help the NOM implement this new service delivery model, as described
below.
D. Health Service
3.04      The chart on the next page compares the structure of the public
health system as it is now with the proposed structure. As a first
step toward putting its new delivery model in place, the NOR has begun
to integrate NCR services into regular primary healtb care services.
ienceforth, all PiCs will offer NCR services, as well as other primary
health care services. In addition, all services will be available any
time the facilities are open and physicians will be responsible for
BCR care in facilities in wbich there is no midwife. Finally, the NOR
will not build any NCM centers separate from PHCs and will phase out
the ezisting NCM centers, almost all of which rented, when the coverage
of regular primary health care centers will allow it.



- 13 -
Table 3: PRESENT AND PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF NOR SERVICES
Major
Organizational
Level/Function  Present System  Proposed System          Cbange
I      Referral       Al Bashir         Al Basbir    Some outpatient and
Hospital        Hospital         Hospital     maternity care vill
be decentralized
to CHCs.
II      General         Regional         Regional      Some outpatient and
Hospital        Hospitals        Hospitals    maternity care vill
be decentralized
to CHCs.
III    Referral in      Polyclinics    Comprehensive  CHC is nev type of
Basic         at General       Health Care   facility.  Referral
Specialties     and Referral        Centers      in basic specialties,
and           Hospitals         (CHC)       and some maternity
Maternity      for Referrals                   and emergency services
Services          and                         vill be offered at
Hospitals                      this level for the
for                         first time.  CHC8 will
Maternity                      also offer primary
Services                       care to the adjacent
populations.
IV       Primary         Primary
Health Care     Health Care         Primary     NCR Services will be
Centers and        Health       fully integrated into
Maternal and        Care        primary care services
Child Health       Centers      and laboratory and
Centers           (PHC)       dental services added
to PCBs.
V        Village         Village           Village      Physicians will visit
Level          Clinics           Clinics     Village Clinics more
Primary                                       often.
Care                          Outreach      Mobile outreach teams
Temas      vill be established
to expand coverage
and improve follow-
up.



- 14 -
3.05      The MOR will also assign two physicians in the future to each
PHC. They will share responsibilities for full-time service at a primary
center and visits daily to each related village clinic. They will also
be responsible for overseeing the health program in schools in their
catchment area. As noted earlier, PHCs nov have one physician who divides
his time between a PHC and several village clinics, making it difficult
to provide services of acceptable quality in either setting. In addition,
the physicians at PHCs will be specialists in family medicine and the
NOH now requires that physicians live in the communities where they serve.
These policies aim to provide physicians with better careers in the NOR,
ensure that physicians in PHCs have a good understanding of the health
problems of the areas they serve, and expand the coverage of care.
3.06      All PHC8 in the future will have a dentist and a simple laboratory.
These measures will provide needed services closer to people dependent on
the MOR and should decrease demand for hospital services. In addition,
PECs will be the base for mobile outreach teams which the MOR will establish.
The aim of those teams will be to identify people who need care but do not
seek it, encourage people to register with MOR facilities for primary health
care, treat people in less accessible areas, and assist the MOB to follow-up
on health matters in the communities. The mobile teams will focus their
attention on the health needs of pregnant women, infants, and children.
3.07       The MOR will also establish a new level of the health system
comprising "comprehensive healtb care centers" (CHCs). The CECs will
aim at expanding coverage of primary health care, referral care in the
basic specialties, emergency services, and maternity services. They
will also aim at improving the quality and efficiency of primary and
referral care by providing some maternity and referral care outside
of hospitals. C9Cs will: (a) serve as primary care centers for adjacent
populations; (b) serve as referral centers in internal medicine, pediatrics,
obstetrics and gynecology, and general surgery for related primary care
centers; (c) provide basic maternity services; and (d) provide basic
emergency, x-ray, and laboratory services.
3.08      The MOR will put a special emphasis on maternal and child
health care. In particular, the MOB will try to increase pre- and
post-natal care of pregnant women, the attendance of deliveries by a
health care professional, and well baby care for infants and young
children. The NOB has set specific targets for these activities which
are discussed in paragraph 5.02.
3.09      The Government does not have an explicit nutrition policy.
However, it does monitor the growth of children and the nutritional status
of pregnant women as part of its MCR services. These activities will
be expanded as the MOR improves its primary health care system. In addition,
the integration of NCR care into the regular primary health care program
means that the staff of all health centers, and not just MCR centers,
will be responsible for dealing with nutritional problems, particularly
among women and children.



- 15 -
3.10      Government's policy on family planning has been to:  (a) provide
information on birth spacing as part of MCH care; (b) offer birth spacing
services on request in public health facilities, as a health measure;
(c) allow voluntary associations and private physicians to offer family
planning information; and (d) allow voluntary associations and private
physicians to provide birth spacing services on request, also as a health
measure.
3.11      The MOH plans to improve its provision of birth spacing services
as part of its efforts to strengthen MCR care and the health of women,
infants and children. Toward this end, the MOH is preparing a guide for
its staff on how birth spacing services should be provided. The MOR will
also carry out regular upgrading courses for its staff on MCH care, including
birth spacing. MOB personnel vill also participate in training courses
on birth spacing which are offered by public agencies like WHO and UNFPA
and private voluntary agencies like the International Planned Parenthood
Federation.
C. Health Manpover Development
3.12      Government is also taking steps to deal with health manpower
issues. The Jordan Medical Society, for example, is tightening its
licensing requirements for foreign-trained physicians and Government is
discouraging the continued use of foreign fellowships for training
physicians. Government has also taken successful measures to increase
the number of female nurses, midvives, and medical technicians in training
and has been registering and upgrading traditional birth attendants.
First, Government has established three training centers, on a temporary
basis, and two would be established permanently with Bank assistance under
the Fourth Education Project and the proposed Manpower Development Project.
In addition, Government recently promised comunities that young women
who study the health professions vill be sent back to their own coumunities
to serve and this seems to have contributed to the fact that the number
of female candidates for nursing schools tripled this year. Government
has also counselled secondary students to study these fields and offered
monetary incentives to health care personnel in these categories and to
those serving in rural areas. Finally, Government is taking steps to
meet other key personnel needs: it will soon begin physicians' residency
programs in emergency medicine and in family medicine; it has increased
the public health content of nurses' training programs; and Jordan University
has started a graduate program in health care administration.
D. Health. Ponulation. and Nutrition Education
3.13      Government is implementing a health education project which
USAID is assisting. Under that project, the MON has prepared a five-year
plan for developing health education and the first goal of that plan is
for the MOE to establish a core group of health educators at the central
level. Those staff will develop the program for health education and
be responsible for preparing health education materials or getting them
prepared in collaboration with the private sector. The MOB will also



- 16 -
place a health educator in the medical directorate of each governorate.
They vill be responsible for supervising the implemmotation of health
education programs. Staff at all levels vill be given responsibilities
for health education and sanitarians will be trained to work as health/
environmental educators. The Health Education Division has recently
completed work on an imunization campaign and it is preparing for campaigns
in the future on: child diarrhea and oral rehydration therapy; anti-smoking;
broastfeeding, weaning and child nutrition; and home sanitation. To support
these efforts, the USAID-assisted project is financing the services of
a health education specialist, overseas fellowships for central and governorate
level staff, and the local training of the health/environmental educators.
E.  Planning and Management
3.14      Government is also implementing a USAID-financed project to
improve health sector planning. That project has led to useful studies
on patterns of disease and to the creation of a new management information
system for the NOR which it is now putting in place. In addition, a number
of Jordanians will be trained in planning and management under the project,
which -a scheduled to end later this year.
3.15      The MOH is also developing a new referral system, which should
be in place by early 1987. This will be an essential part of the effort
to decentralize referral care to the CHCs and try to prevent people from
bypassing the appropriate level of the health care system and going. instead,
directly to hospital outpatient clinics. In addition, the HOH is devising
measures to improve supervision of its primary health care program. These
include appointing a physician in each governorate who will be a supervisor
of health centers and establishing an "audit" system for measuring center
performance and quality. These steps should be implemented by late 1986.
In the future, physicians at PHCs will have increased responsibilities
for supervising the activities of the village clinics. They will also
supervise the work of the mobile teams. The CHC administrator will supervise
the activities of the PHCs.
F. PHC and CHC Facilities
3.16      The MOR will improve health care facilities as rapidly as feasible
to: (a) physically integrate MCH services into regular primary care services;
(b) provide primary health care in appropriate facilities; and (c) establish
CHCs as required. The MOH will also provide supplementary equipment to
existing facilities Lo enable them to carry out the new service delivery
model. In line with the above, the MOB vill upgrade some village clinics
into PHCs. It vill also begin to replace existing MCH centers and existing
PHCs which are in rented facilities vith new facilities. Lastly, it will
convert some PHCs which it owns into CHCs and construct some new CHCs.
Most of the improvements of facilities wbich are planned for the next
five years would be financed under the proposed project.
G. Community Involvement
3.17      Communities will play an important role in the new approacb
to primary health care. First, the bealth education program will aim
at providing communities with information they can use to improve their



-17-
own health status - through. for example. better hygione, reduced smoking,
improvod nutrition, and appropriate home treatment of illnesses like diarrhea.
Second, health educators, sanitarians, outreach teams, and staff of health
centers will work with community leaders to identify health problems and
comunity roeidents who are not satisfactorily covered by the public health
system. A special effort will be made in this way, for example, to
identify pregnant women and children under six who need health care services.
Third, co.uuitios which want now MOH services will be asked to donate
land to the MOd as a sign of their interest in better health care. Fourth,
coumunities will participate in periodic meetings with MON staff and the
staff of MOR facilities to help to identify and find solutions to comunity
health problems. Jordan has a w.ll-defined counity structure and coounities
are already participating in the abovo activities. The MOH plans to build
upon existing coumunity efforts to enhance community participation in
the future.
IV. THE BANK'S ROLE
A. Previous Involvement
4.01      The Bank in recent year. has helped Covernment to improve
access to basic social services and develop projects with high potential
in agriculture and industry. With the first objective in mind, the Bank
has financed a series of projects in education, urban development, and
water supply. In addition, the Bank is financing three activities which
directly relate to the health sector. The Fourth Education Project is
financing the construction in Irbid of a training institute for nurses,
midwives, and technicians. That part of the project was delayed for about
two years, largely because of site changes due to the suspension of the
hospital building program. However, work on that component is speeding
up and the Institute sbould open for the school year beginning September
1987. The Aman Urban Development Project financed the construction of
two bealth centers vhich the MON is operating successfully. The Bank
is also helping to finance a research project wbich is examining the
impact of that urban project on the health of people in the affected
comounity. The Manpower Development Project, vhich has recently been
aepraised, would finance the establishment of a training center for health
personnel in Zarka. That center would offer the same programs of study
as the Irbid Paramedical Institute financed under the Fourth Education
Project. The Bank also plans in the next five years to finance other
projects in education, water supply and urban development, all of which
will have important effects on health status.
B. Rationale for Future Bank Involvement
4.02      The proposed project would be the first World Bank lending
operation in Jordan which focuses on the population, health, and nutrition
sectors.  There are several justifications for Bank involvement in this
operation. First, the project is in line with the overall strategy of
World Bank assistance to Jordan. Second, there are still serious healtb
problems in Jordan wbich need to be addressed as a matter of higb priority.



-18-
Third, the shared concern of the Bank and Government for more equitable
and efficient provision of health servicas in Jordan led Government to
request the Bank to carry out the health sector reviev anJ to the development
of the proposed project. Fourth, the Bank has discussed sector strategy
with the NOR extensively during both sector work and project preparation
and the Bank believes that the NOR approach to addressing its most important
sectoral issues is a reasonable one. It is well-focused on maternal and
child health and at the same time helps to addre.c aome sector-wide problems
of efficiency. Finally, no other external assistance agencies are prepared
to assist Jordan in financing a project which will take a comprehensive
approach to improving primary health care and referral care.
403       For the above reasons the proposed project has been built around
Government's health sector strategy and aims at helping the MOB put into
place its new service delivery program for primary health care and for
referral care in the basic specialties, as discussed in paragraphs 3.01
to 3.17. In addition, the health care program that would be implemented
under this project would be used in health centers to be established under
the Second Amman Urban Development Project, which is under preparation.
It would also be supported by staff who would be trained in institutions
assisted by the Fourth Education Project and the proposed Manpower Development
Project.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
5.01      The goals of the project are to assist in reducing morbidity
and mortality in Jordan which result from preventable causes, with a special
focus on the health problems of mothers and cbildren. The project would
address these goals by helping to expand the coverage and improve the
quality and efficiency of primary health care, including birth spacing,
and of referral care in the basic specialties. The project would put
in place the foundations of a new service delivery model, which vould
be expanded throughout Jordan, if successful.
B. Proiect Targets
5.02      The Government has establhsbed specific targets for improving
health care which it aims to meet during the life of the project. It
plans to : (a) increase the share of pregnant women who receive pre-natal
care from the MOB from 20% to 40% of all pregnancies; (b) increase the
share of deliveries which are attended by MOH staff from 30% to 40% of
total deliveries; (c) increase the share of couples who get contraceptive
services from the MOR from 1% to 6% of the eligible couples; and (d) increase
the share of children under six years of age who get MOH well baby care
from 15% to 30% of all children under six.1/ If these targets are achieved
1/ NCR services in Jordan focus on children under six years of age, rather
than under five, as in most countries.



-19-
and there is no increase in the share of services of the other providers,
then the percent of women who get pre-natal care will rise from 60 to
80; the percent of births which are attended will go from 60 to 70; the
contraceptive prevalence rate vill rise from 26Z to 31%; and, the percent
of children under six getting vell baby care will increase from 50 to
65. Achieving these targets should assist considerably in reducing mortality
and morbidity in women, infants, and children.
C. Proiect Beneficiaries
5.03      The main beneficiarieb of the project vould be:
(a) About 140,000 people, or 6% of the population, who are expected
to make use of the primary health care centers related to the project.
Of this group, the project w-ould provide suitable access to primary health
care facilities for the first time to about 25,000 people.
(b) About 200,000 people, or 8Z of the population, vho are likely
to make use of the comprehensive health certers financed under the project
for primary care.
(c) About 930,000 people, or 37% of the total population, who
are expected to use the CHCs for referral care. This number includes
people in groups (a) and (b) above.
5.04      A large share of the beneficiaries of the project would be people
from the lower socio-economic groups in Jordan. Three of the CHCs, for
example, would be located in urban poverty areas. Most other CECs and
PHCs would be located away from major cities and be oriented toward providing
services to people who are not well served at present. About 37% of the
people who would make use of the new PHCs and CHCs would be women of child-
bearing age and children under six.
D. Summary Proiect Comnosition
5.05      The project would be implemented over about a seven year period
between 1985 and 1992 and would finance the investments noted below.
Expansion and Improvement of Health Care Services
(a) The establishment of 25 new primary health care centers.
(b) The refurbishing of 9 existing primary health care centers.
(c) The establishment of 13 new comprehensive health care centers.
(d) The refurbishing of 4 existing primary health care centers
to make them into comprehensive health care centers.
The new model for health care delivery would be implemented.first
in these facilities.



-20-
Development of Health Sector Personnel
The residency training of 175 physicians, the post-graduate training
of 20 health care administrators and 60 nurses' trainers, and the
pre-service training of 40 nurses, 90 midwives, 195 practical nurses,
and 235 medical technicians.
Expansion of Health. Population, and Nutrition Education
Audio-visual equipment, materials and vehicles to expand health,
population, and nutrition education to the community level.
Strengthening Health Sector Planning. Management. Research and
Evaluation
Funds for local consultants to assist the NOR in carrying out mid-term
and final evaluations of the project, research on key sector topics,
and preparation of future projects. The ptoject would also include
office furniture, equipment, and vehicles for project management.
E. Detailed Proiect Description
5.06.      Health Care Services.  To assist Government in putting in place
its new service delivery model, the project would finance civil works,
equipment, furniture, and vehicles needed to establish 25 new PECs, refurbish
9 existing PHCs, establish 13 new CHCs, and convert 4 PHCs into CHCs.
The total cost of these efforts would be about US$20.9 million equivalent,
or 68% of the total project costs. Nineteen of the 25 new PHCs would
replace existing PHCs which are operating in unsuitable rented facilities.
Six of the new PHCs would be built in areas which do not have acceptable
access to Drimary health care at present. The map at the end of the report
shows the locations of the facilities to be aided by the project.
5.07      The PECs would serve populations which average about 5,100
people. As noted earlier, they would have two physicians, who would share
responsibility for the center and related village clinics. They vnuld
also have a midwife responsible for MCH services, a dentist, and a simple
laboratory. PHCs would offer maternal and child health care, including:
pre- and post-natal care, birth spacing information and services, well
baby care, immunizations, and health and nutrition education. They would
also offer identification and treatment of chronic and communicable diseases,
first-line curative services, basic laboratory services, and dental care.
As noted earlier, the MOR will continue to encourage the use of oral rehydration
therapy for appropriate cases of diarrhea and it is likely that oral rehydration
salts will be produced in Jordan in the near future.
5.08      CECs would have an average catchment population of about 91,000.
CHCs would serve as a primary health care center for the immediately adjacent
population and for these services would have one or more family physicians,
a midwife, a dentist, nursing staff, and laboratory services. As discussed
previously, CHCs will also serve as referral centers for primary health



-21-
care centers in their catchment areas for cases in internal medicine,
pediatrics, obstetrics and gynecology, and general surgery. Each CHC
vould have at least one full-time specialist in each of those fields except
general surgery; a general surgeon would work only part time in some centers.
Specialists in other fields would visit the center on a part-time basis
as the need for their services is established. CHCs would also have a
6 to 12 bed maternity section to handle normal deliveries and a section
for handling uncomplicated emergencies. CHCs would be managed by physicians
with training in health care administration and they would supervise PHCs
in their catchment area.
5.09      The demand for services and the staffing, equipment, and facilities
that would be required to meet that demand have been based on data on
the present use of services in Jordan and norms for service delivery which
the MOE developed during project preparation. Key assumptions and norms
vere:
(a) PHCs will cater to 60% of the people in urban areas and 80%
of the people in rural areas. These assumptions are based on present
patterns of demand.
(b) Tne demand for PHC care will be about four visits per year per
person. This is a relatively high figure for a developing country but
consistent with Jordanian patterns of use and the large proportion of
pregnant women and children in the population.
(c) When the new referral system is put in place, physicians at
the PECs will refer about 15Z of their cases to CHC specialists or to
the CUC for laboratory work. This will probably decrease over time to
abouc v;at%.
(d) Physicians at the PECs should see from 30 to 50 patients per
day.
Ce) Physicians in the basic specialties should see 20 to 30 patients
per day.
5.10      Estimates of demand were made on the basis of the above
assumptions for each catchment area. The MOR then calculated the required
number of staff for each center using the norms it had established. On
the same basis, the MOR formulated a standard list of equipment and materials
which would be needed. Finally, the NOR established space norms for each
service area of the PECs and CICs and the Ministry of Public Works (NOPW)
prepared prototype architectural designs.
5.11      The MOR selected the locations for proposed facilities on the
basis of a review of facilities nationwide and criteria agreed with the
Bank. These criteria included socio-economic status of the communities,
availability of transportation and communication, access to health services
of other providers, and size of population. The method of site selection
favored areas which are poor, have lited access to other providers,



-22-
do not have good communications, but vhich do have at least 5,000 people
for PHCs. The recommendations of local health directors were also
considered. Government expecta communities to donate land for PHCs as
a sign of their commitment to the importance of improving health services.
The criteria for locating CHCs were similar to those for PHCs. However,
they also took account of the number of PRCs which would refer to each
CaC and the potential for reducing demand for hospital outpatient services.
5.12      One prototype design has been formulated for PHCs.  It contains
367 square meters, is based firmly on the planned services, and is about
40% smaller than similar facilities built earlier. Three prototyp6 designs
have been formulated for the CBCs which are considerably smaller than
the few early versions of comprehensive centers in Jordan. Three of the
CHCs to be constructed would contain 730 square meters, seven vould have
about 800 square meters, and the three urban centers would have about
1,000 square meters.
5.13      Health ManDower Develooment.  The project would finance that
part of the MOB training program for health sector personnel which is
needed to put the new service delivery model in place. About 800 MOB
staff would receive long-term training under the project and about 2,000
staff would participate in continuing education workshops. This component
would cost US$8.4 million equivalent, equal to 27% of the total project
cost. A small part of the training is not offered in Jordan and would
be carried out abroad. The majority of the training would be carried
out in Jordan - in ongoing programs or in programs which are being
established to meet the demands of the new MOR system. Staff who are
selected for pre-service training will be committed to working in the
new health care facilities to which they are assigned for one to two years
for each year of training.
5.14      Twenty-four managers for the CHCs would be trained at Jordan
University in a recently established two-year masters degree program in
health care administration.   Upon completion of their studies in Jordan,
the trainees would participate in three-mouth internships in health care
facilities abroad, under government or bilateral financing.
5.15      Ninety-five specialists in family medicine would be trained
in two-year local residency programs to staff the PHCs and the primary
care services of the CHC8. Forty-five specialists in emergency medicine
would be trained in two-year local residency programs for the emergency
sections of the CHCs. These residency programs will begin in 1986. The
project would also finance the local training in two-year residencies
of a total of 25 specialists in internal medicine, pediatrics, and
obstetrics/gynecology to assist in staffing the referral sections of the
CHCs.
5.16      The project would finance the local training of 60 nurses' trainers
who will become teachers at nurses' training institutions. The MOR will
select experienced nurses vho show promise of being good nursing educators
and give them intensive training during a three-month period. They will



-23-
then be paired with experienced nursing education specialists whose work
is being supported by the Overseas Development Administration of the United
Kingdom (ODA) and USAID. In addition, the project would include the local
training of 40 registered nurses in three-year programs, 90 midwives in
two-year programs, 195 assistant nurses in 18-month programs, and 235
medical techbicians in two-year programs. These staff would be trained
in ongoing programs in Jordan, which Government is in the process of making
more oriented toward public health.
5.17      Finally, the project vould include funds for 40 MOR staff to
participate in short-term international training programs related to primary
health care. It would also finance three types of local workshops which
would be carried out to prepare staff to meet the aims of the new service
delivery model: (a) workshops for 300 physicians; (b) vorkshops for 750
auxiliaries; and (c) workshops for training staff of new facilities as
they prepare to begin operations. The vorkshops would be intensive and
would usually be three to five days long. The unit cost of the vorkshops
is estimated at US$60 equivalent, per participant, which vould be reasonable.
The MOR already has considerable experience in operating workshops for
continuing education; the workshops for the staff of project-assisted
centers would be new for the MOR and based on "Project Launch" activities
which have worked successfully in several Bank-assisted projects in the
urban sector.
5.18      Health. Population. and Nutrition Education. The proposed Bank
assistance vould help the MOB to implement its five-year plan for health
education, vwich was discussed in paragrapb 3.13 and would complement the
USAID-financed health education project which is helping the NOR to
strengthen the Division of Health Education at the central and governorate
levels. Essentially, this component would help the NOR to carry health
education directly to the community level. The project would finance
equipment, audio-visual materials, and vehicles for health education
outreach and the supervision of health education activities. The equipment
and materials would be based in the health centers to be established under
the project. This component would cost about US$0.7 million equivalent,
equal to 2% of the total project cost.
5.19      Health Sector Plannine and Nanagement.  The cost of this component
would be US$.6 million equivalent, equal to 2% of the total project cost.
This component would include about US$135,000 equivalent, for equipping,
furnishing, and providing office materials for the Project Management Unit.
It would also include about US$320,000 equivalent for consultant services
to support the evaluation of this project and research related to key sector
topics. Lastly, this component would include about US$145,000 equivalent
to finance consultant services to help the MOR develop future projects
in the health, population, and nutrition sectors. The Directorate of Planning,
Training, and Research of the MOB would oversee research activities carried
out under the project and it in expected that much of the work would be
carried out jointly by the MOB and the academic comunity.  The Bank and
government have already agreed on the outlines of a five-year research
program and from 1986 to 1991 the MOE would oversee a study each year on



-24-
one of the following topics: health manpower probl ms; cost of health
services; efficiency of public and private services; outstanding issues
in nutrition; and, maternal and child morbidity and mortality. During
negotiations, government gave assurances that it would review with the
Bank by September 30 each year the proposals for research to be conducted
the following year. Government would also carry out a mid-term evaluation
of the project by December 31, 1988, and a final evaluation by December
31, 1991, and during negotiations, the government also gave assurances
to that effect.
VI. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Cost of the Proiect
6.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$30.5 million
equivalent. The foreign exchange componeut of the project vould be about
US$15.0 million equivalent, or about 49% of the total project cost. The
breakdown of project costs by project component and by category of
expenditure is given on the uext page and shown in detail in Annex 3. The
Government vould waive all identifiable taxes and duties related to
project-financed items.
6.02      The base cost estimates for goods and services to be financed
under the project are for March 1985. The estimated unit costs of civil
works would be US$304 equivalent per square meter and is based on the
unit costs of recent contracts for the construction of similar works
and on final architectural designs. The cost estimates for furniture,
equipment, and vehicles are based on final lists of items and on the
costs of similar items procured in 1984. The cost of local training
takes account of recent experiences in Jordan. The cost of short-term
overseas training is estimated at US$24,000 per staff-year, including
all expenses, and is based on recent fellowships awarded to Jordanians
by bilateral agencies. These base costs are comparable to those for
similar items in other countries of the region.
6.03      The project includes contingency allowances of 10  for civil
works, furniture, equipment, and vehicles. The overall allowance for
price escalation is about 33% of base costs plus physical contingencies.
Total contingencies are equal to 40Z of base costs. This has been
calculated on the basis of the following annual price increases over
the project implementation period, for all expenditure categories:
1985    1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991  1992
Local Costs         5%    7.5%    8%      8%     8%     8%      5%     5%
Foreign Costs       5%    7.5%    8Z      8%     8%     8X      5%     5%
6.04      The foreign exchange component as a percentage of total costs,
has been calculated as follows: civil works (including architectural
fees), 46Z; furniture, 68%; equipment, 902; vehicles, 90Z; overseas
training, 90Z; local training, 10%; and consultant services, 10%.



- 25 _
- PR -  GM 
Table 4: aDS MIIM  Y CU'WlE
(in uilliwu of JD ad 3$)
JD                       15$
z
C _cait       local  Foreig    Total   local   Forein Total  11 Cost
A. 1bpoD4 Hitb
Cae service.       2.2      3.6     5.8      5.7    9.0   14.7    67.0
B. Esith   b
Dswlo t            2.1      0.4     2.5      5.3    1.0    6.3    29.0
C. Eazdfig ulith
dutaion            0.0 1/   0.2     0.2      0.0 1/   0.4   0.4      2.0
D. Strstbehr
plumi ,
lese adt
Re'r  m
Bvhluaticn         0.1      0.1     0.2      0.3    0.1    0.4       2.0
Bue Cost             4.5     4.1      8.6    11.3   10.5   21.8   100.0
Physical
coating.ies        0.2      0.4     0.6      0.6    1.0    1.6       7.0
Price Tlrem         1.4     1.4      2.8     3.5    3.5    7.1    33.0
-wMAL COST           6.1     5.9    12.0    15.5   15.0   30.5   140.0
Table 5: 31ThAN COSTS BY CAMOV GF EV=r=
(in uilliws of 3D ad 13$)
CatqgY        IClc  Foreign    Total   Local  Foreip  Total  11 Cost
A. Civil Wuork          1.9      1.6     3.5      4.9    4.1    9.0    41.0
B. Fumiture             0.2      0.4     0.6      0.4    1.0    1.4       6.0
C. ftizit               0.1      1.3     1.4      0.4    3.2    3.6    16.0
D.  ebicleu             0.0 1/  0.5      0.5      0.1    1.2    1.3       6.0
B. Oveem FellAbips    0.1        0.2     0.3      0.1    0.4    0.5       2.0
F. local Traing         2.1      0.2     2.3      5.2    0.6    5.8    27.0
G.  1muItut Service.    0.1      0.0 1/  0.1      c.3    0.0    0.3       2.0
Bae Cost             4.5     4.1      8.6    11.3   10.5   21.8   100.0
Physical
Catingucies        0.2      0.4     0.6      0.6    1.0    1.6      7.0
Price Cmtgencies    1.4       1.4     2.8     3.6    3.5    7.1    33.0
ML COST              6.1     5.9    12.0    15.5   15.0   30.5   140.0
-         -        -       -       -       -        -
NIE: 3w ad Colum toals my nt aree due to rouudmg.
1/ A sm   imt is d sxm due to rou1ing.



-26-
B. Proiect Financing Plan
6.05      An I.B.R.D. loan of US$13.5 million equivalent would finance
about 44% of the total net-of-tax project cost. The Government would
provide financing of US$17.0 million equivalent, which would equal about
56% of the total net-of-tax project cost. The Bank loan would finance
the foreign exchange costs of civil works, equipment, furniture, and
vehicles. This would equal 90% of the foreign exchange costs of the
project. The Government would finance all of the local costs of the
project and the foreign exchange costs of overseas and local training,
equal to 10 of the foreign costs of the project. The Government would
finance these foreign costs because the costs of local training are included
in the regular MOB recurrent budget and because bilateral agencies are
likely to assist government in financing the short-term overseas training
related to this project. The financing plan is sumarized below and given
in greater detail in Annexes 4 and 5.
JORDAN PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
Table 6: FINANCING PLAN BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(in US$ millions) *
--------------------------------------------------------------
Total
Base    Local  Foreign    GOJ       IBRD
Category           Coat    Cost     Cost   Financing Financing
- -_______ - -------- -                _--- - ----   _--_ ---------
Civil Works                  9.0      4.9       4.1       4.9      4.1
Furniture                    1.4      0.4       1.0       0.4      1.0
Equipment                    3.6      0.4      3.2        0.4      3.2
Vehicles                     1.3      0.1       1.2       0.1      1.2
Overseas Fellovships         0.5      0.1      0.4        0.5      0.0
Local Training               5.8      5.2      0.6        5.8      0.0
Consultant Services          0.3      0.3      0.0        0.3      0.0
Total Base Cost             21.9     11.4      10.5      12.4      9.5
Physical Contingencies       1.5      0.5       1.0       0.5      1.0
Price Contingencies          7.1      3.6      3.5        4.1      3.0
TOTAL COST                  30.5    15.5    15.0         17.0    13.5
== mm= now       =ownm     iwnwim    mmmmm
C. Costs of the Nev Service Delivery Model
6.06      The Bank and Government have estimated the unit costs of services
to be provided in the PHCs and CECs to be constructed under the project.
The cost per outpatient visit to a PHC would be about US$5.50 equivalent.



-27-
That would include the cost of all services - clinical exam, laboratory
work, and drugs and is about the same as the cost per outpatient visit
at existing PHCs, which provide essentially no laboratory services. The
cost per outpatient visit to a private general practitioner in Jordan
is about US$7.50 equivalent. The cost per outpatient visit at a CHC is
estimated at US$5.00 equivalent. This would be about the same as the
present cost of outpatient services at hospital clinics and is considerably
less than the US$15.00 equivalent which private specialists receive per
outpatient visit. One must treat these comparisons as indicative because
the NO0 does not carry out program budgeting and accounting and the cost
of existing services is a rough estimation. Nonetheless, the above analysis
suggests that the unit cost of services under the new model would be about
the same or slightly less than under the existing model. Moreover, one
expects services under the new model to be of higher quality than present
services are for reasons noted in Section III of the r-port.
D. Proiect Recurrent Costs
6.07      At full operation in 1992, the project-assisted programs would
add about US$2.8 million equivalent per year to the annual recurrent budget
of the MOH. This would equal about 5% of the 1985 recurrent budget of
the Ministry of Health and about .3% of the 1985 national recurrent budget.
Thus, the project would have a relatively limited impact on the absolute
amount of the national recurrent budget.  The national recurrent budget
would have to grov by only .032 per year and the recurrent budget of the
Ministry of Health would have to grow by only about .5% per year from
1985 until 1992 to meet project-related recurrent costs when all project-
financed institutions would be in full operation. Even under very
pessimistic assumptions of growth for the Jordanian economy, these
incremental costs should not be difficult to meet.
6.08      The Bank has revieved with Government the recurrent costs that
would be generated by implementing the new delivery system nationally
between now and the year 2000, when the population of Jordan is projected
to be 4.3 million. The cost at that time of operating a CHC for each
100,000 people would be about JD1.3 million per year. This would be equal
to about 6% of the 1985 budget of the MON and could be achieved in the
year 2000 with an annual real growth of the MOB budget of .4% between
1985 and 2000. The MO0 could probably meet the needs for PHC. in the
year 2000 by establishing 200 new PHCs, 100 to replace existing P11Cm and
MCP centers and 100 to expand coverage. It would cost the MOB about JD5.0
million to operate those PICs, equal to about 23% of the 1985 MO4 recurrent
budget. The MOB budget would have to grow in real terms by 1.3Z per year
between 1985 and 2000 to meet these expenses. Jordan is in the midst
of rapid social and economic change and it is not possible to determine
what the pattern of use of health services will be in the future. The
above analysis suggests, however, that the nev service delivery model
would be an affordable basis for providing MOB primary and referral care
in the future.



VII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Proiect Prenaration
7.01      The status of project preparation is well advanced.  The Bank
has extensively reviewed with Government its new program for health care
delivery and the Bank and Government have agreed to the proposed staffing
of each facility to be established or improved under the project. In
addition, the Bank has approved the lists of equipment, furniture, and
vehicle. to be financed under the project and the project-financed training
program. The Bank has also approved final designs for the P8C model and
the two models of CHC which would be built in the first phase of construction.
The NOR has acquired 26 of 38 sites, sufficient to begin the first phase
of construction on schedule.
7.02       The MOR has already begun to implement some of the changes
in health care services which relate to the pro,ect, including offering
MCR care at all health centers, providing regular NCR services at all
times, rather than only on certain days, and requiring that physicians
live in the communities in which they serve. In addition, a number of
MON teams are preparing manuals and circulars for NOB staff on specific
responsibilities for supervision, general NCR services, maternity services,
and birth spacing services. The Bank has already reviewed much of the
information which will be contained in the manuals. The NOR should be
ready to begin construction of project-financed health care facilities
in January 1986, about three months after the anticipated date of loan
effectiveness.
B. Proiect Manauement- Arrangements
7.03      The NOR would be responsible for the execution of all project
components and has created a Project Management Unit (PHU) to coordinate
project implementation. A project director, two architects, a civil engineer,
a procurement specialist, an accountant, and support staff are already
employed in the PNU and the director and the architects had major roles
in the preparation of the project. During negotiations, government gave
assurances that it would maintain the PM3 during the project implemeutation
period and staff it, at least, with a full-time director, two architects,
an accountant, a procurement specialist, and adequate support staff.
7.04      The PMU is a regular unit of the MOR which is linked to the
Office of the MOH Undersecretary. It would coordinate the execution of
project-financed activities which would be carried out by regular line
units of the ministry. The MOR has also established a Project Advisory
Committee to advise the Project Management Unit on issues that may arise.
The NOR Undersecretary is the chairman of the coimittee and all NOR
Department Directors are committee members. The committee will meet once
per month or at the request of any member.
7.05      The Department of Primary Realth Care would be responsible for
implementing the new service delivery model. The Division of Realth Care



-29-
Centers within that Department would take a major part in those efforts.
The Health Education Division of the Primary Health Care Department would
be responsible for implementing the expanded program for health, population,
and nutrition education. The Department of Planning, Training and Research
would be responsible for implementing the training and planning and research
components of the project. That department has coordinated project preparation
and would assist the Director of the PHU in coordinating the overall project.
7.06      The MOH has not previously implemented a project assisted by
the World Bank and had difficulties managing its component of the Fourth
Education Project due to unclear responsibilities for project execution
within the MOH. To help address these factors, the MOB for the proposed
project has established precise managerial guidelines for all staff
involved in the project. These are contained in a handbook for project
management which the MOH prepared and which indicates the stages of all
administrative activities, responsibility for the activity, and the maximum
time permitted to carry it out. The handbook also contains implementation
plans for each component of the project. As noted in paragraph 7.02,
the MOR is also preparing an implementation manual for each health service
activity related to the project which will serve as guides for MOB staff
in the field who will be carrying out the new service delivery program.
C. Specialist Services and Fellowships
7.07      The project would not finance any specialist services from
outside of Jordan. Hovever, the project would finance the research costs
of consultants recruited from the academic and health communities in
Jordan who would assist in carrying out project related research and
evaluation studies and in preparing future health sector projects. Project
preparation funds would also be used for architectural services. During
negotiations, government gave assurances that it would submit to the Bank
for review the terms of reference and qualifications of specialists to
be financed under the project.
7.08      The project would finance about 9 staff-years of short-term
overseas training for health center administrators and public health
specialists. During negotiations, Government gave assurances that it
would submit to the Bank by July 31 of each year during implementation,
an outline of proposed training programs for the following calendar year.
The Government has a well-enforced "bonding program" for trainees. Students
trained at public expense in the health professions must serve in a government
post two years for each year of training or they must repay government
the full cost of their training. However, females who are trained in
nursing and uidvifery must serve only one year for each year of
training -- the reduction being an effort to encourage females to enter
these fields.
D. Sites
7.09      The Government has already identified almost all of the sites on
vhich it intends to construct facilities under the project. In addition, it



-30-
has acquired 26 of the 38 required sites which is more than sufficient to initi-
ate on schedule the first phase of project related construction. During nego-
tiations, government gave assurances that it would acquire all of the remaining
sites by July 31, 1986, which would give sufficient time for the second phase
of construction to begin on schedule.
E. ProcuremeBL
7.10     The table below suu.arizes procurement arrangements:
Table 7:  PROCUREMENT BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE, INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(US$ millions)
P R O C U R E M E N T M E T H O D
Category         _--     ---------------------
ICB        LCB        Other    Total Cost
* ummmmmmmmummmumminmummmmmminmmmmmmmmmmmumm~mmmmmmamm~m..wmmaswum muinmmmm,umm
Civil Works                      12.31       0.20         -           12.51
(5.64)    (0.09)                    (5.73)
Furniture                         1.80       0.25         -            2.05
(1.24)    (0.15)                    (1.39)
____   -   --         - __ __  -- -- __  -     -- - - -- - -   -   -------------------------___ ___ ___ ___ __
Equipment                         4.91       0.32         -            5.23
(4.44)    (0.26)                    (4.70)
Vehicles                          1.87       -            -            1.87
(1.68)                              (1.68)
Overseas Fellowships               -         -           0.68          0.68
(0.00)       (0.00)
Local Training                     -         -           7.75          7.75
(0.00)       (0.00)
Consultant Services                                      0.47          0.47
-        -          (0.00)        (0.00)
TOTAL                       20.99       0.77        8.90         30.56
(13.00)    (0.50)      (0.00)       (13.50)
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.



-31-
7.11      Architectural DeimAo and Sunervision.  The MON hba  appointed
the Ministry of Public Works to prepare architectural studies for the
project and to supervise project-financed construction. The architects
in the YMU will liaise with the  OPW on behalf of the Ministry of Health
and coordinate the architectural program with other parts of the project.
The MOPW vill recruit private consultant architects in accordance vith
Bank guidelines to assist it in carrying out supervision and the estimated
cost of architectural services reflects the cost of private services.
7.12      Civil Works.  The remodeling to be carried out under the project
is simple work that would cost less than US$50,000 equivalant for any
individual contract and has an aggregate value of only US$200,000 equivalent.
Therefore, the NOH would award contracts for this work in accordance with
LCB procedures which the Bank has found to be generally satisfactory.
Contracts for new construction have an estimated value of US$12.31 million
equivalent and would be awarded in accordance with ICB procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
7.13      Goods   The value of equipment, furniture, and vehicles to be
procured under the project would be about US$9.15 million equivalent.
The MOB would group furniture, equipment, and vehicles to the extent
possible in large contracts for bulk procurement. The MO would award
contracts for packages exceeding US$100,000 equivalent on the bsis of
C3. Items which cannot be grouped in bid packages of more than
US$100,000 would be procured on the basis of LCD procedures which the
Dank has found generally satisfactory. The procurement of equipment,
vehicles, and furniture by means other than ICB would be subject to an
aggregate limit of US$0.8 million equivalent - or 9Z of the total value
of goods to be procured under the project.
7.14      Preferences.  In the comparison of bids obtained on the basis
of ICD, qualifying domestic manufacturers would be allowed a margin of
preference equal to the existing rate of customs duties applicable to
competing imports or 152 of the CIF price, whichever it lower.
7.15      Bank Revicv Reguirepentc   The Bank would review prior to contract
award: (a) all construction contracts in excess of US$250,000 equivalent;
and (b) all contracts for goods which are in excess of US$150,000 equivalent.
Contracts falling in the above categories are expected :a be about 752
of the total estimated value of goods and civil works to be procured under
the project. Other contracts would be subject to Bank .view after contract
award.



-32-
F. Disbursements
7.16      The proceeds of the I.B.R.D. loan would be disbursed as follows:
Amount
US$ Million             Percent of Expenditures
Categorv                  Equivalent                   to be Financed
1.  Works (including          4.9              100% of foreign expenditures
architectural fees)                       and 46% of local expenditures
2.  Furniture                 1.2              100% of foreign expenditures
and 60% of local expenditures
3.  Equipment and Vehicles   5.5               100% of foreign expenditures
and 80X of local expenditures
4.  Unallocated               1.9
Total                   13.5
7.17      The disbursement schedule is given in Annex 9.  That scbedule
is based on a project implementation period of about seven years. The
disbursement profile for all Population, Health and Nutrition Projects
(PEN) is about 10 years and there are no profiles for Jordan or for
PEN projects in the EMONA region. The profile for the proposed project
is shorter than the overall PHN profile since (a) the project is an
advanced state of preparation; (b) Jordan has a good disbursement record;
(c) the loan vould finance only straightforward activities which are
to be carried out in the first four years of the project. The Project
Completion Date would be June 30, 1992, and the Project Closing Date
would be December 31, 1992.
7.18      To facilitate payments to contractors and suppliers and to
expedite disbursements, a revolving fund would be established in a commercial
bank in Jordan, in an initial amount of US$500,000. The World Bank
would replenish that fund each month on the basis of standard documentation
for reimbursable expenditures. During negotiations, Government gave
assurances that it would establish and operate the revolving fund in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank. All disbursements would be fully
documented except those against contracts valued at US$10,000 equivalent
or less. Disbursements against those contracts would be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure. The documertation for disbursements
made against statements of expenditure would be correlated with related
withdrawal applications and they would remain on file in a single location
and made available for review by Bank representatives during supervision.



-33-
G. Accounts and Audits
7.19     The project management team would establish accounts for the
project in accordance with internationally accepted accounting procedures.
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that:
(a)    it would maintain satisfactory accounts;
(b)    it would maintain separate accounts on the revolving fund;
(c)    annual audits of project expenditures would be carried out
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(d)    the audits would be conducted annually and the accounts and
audit would be submitted to the Bank for review within six
months of the close of the Governhent's fiscal year; and
(e)    the auditor would give a separate opinion on the revolving
fund and on statements of expenditure.
Following the pattern of other Bank-assisted projects in Jordan, the Government's
Auditor General's Office would serve as the independent auditor of the
project.
H. Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation
7.20      The PNU would monitor the day-to-day implementation of the project
and would submit to the Bank progress reports every four months. The
P1U would also coordinate efforts to carry out the mid-term and final
evaluations of the project discussed earlier. During negotiations, Government
gave assurances that it would submit a Project Completion Report to the
Bank within six months of the project Closing Date. The Directorate of
Planning, Training, and Research of the WOE would monitor the effect of
the project on health care services and the extent to which the MOR meets
the project targets noted in paragraph 5.02. The MOR, in conjunction
vitb the two universities in Jordan, would also carry out studies of the
impact of the project and of specific program improvements related to
the project, as noted in paragraph 5.19.
VIII. PROJECTS BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
8.01      The main benefit of the project would be a reduction in mortality
and morbidity, particularly of people in lower socio-economic groups and
of infants, children, and women of childbearing age. These sbould come
about as the public health system expands coverage and improves the quality
of primary care, including birth spacing services, maternity care, and



-34-
referral care in the basic specialties. If the project meets its targets,
as noted in paragraph 5.02, it would produce an increase of: 33% in the
share of pregnant women who get pre-natal care; 17% in the share of
deliveries which are attended by a health care professional; 20% in the
contraceptive prevalence rate; and, 35S in the share of children under
six years of age who get well baby care. These benefits would accrue
even if there were no increases in the services of other providers, and
would represent major improvements in the ability of the MOB to provide
care, particularly to those who depend on it for health services.
8.02      The project would also have three other important benefits.
First, the MOR is using the project as a basis for developing and
implementing comprehensive health planning norms for the first time,
concerning estimates of demand, required case loads, and space allocations
(para. 5.09). The use of norms will considerably improve health planning
in Jordan. Second, the project would improve the efficiency of the public
health system by providing better quality services at the same or lower
unit costs. Providing improved primary care, maternity and referral care,
and health education closer to communities will also involve communities
more in improving their own health and hygiene practices. Finally, the
approach to healtb care taken in this project would be expanded througbout
Jordan, if it is successful.
B. Risks
8.03      The main risks of the project would be: (a) demand for services
may be less than planned; (b) people may continue to bypass lower levels
of the system; and (c) health care personnel may continue to take a passive
approach to health care and not focus sufficiently on outreach, preventive
care, and MCH care. The demand for services is always difficult to predict,
particularly when there are several providers. The risks of overestimating
demand have been limited by concentrating services on areas most dependent
on the MOB, setting clear and efficient norms for staffing, equipping,
and designing facilities, and making estimates on the basis of the best
available data on present patterns of use. A new referral system would
be put in place; coupled with improvement in quality, it would limit the
risk that people will not seek care at lower levels of the system. It
will, of course, take time to change the orientations of the public health
system. However, the comprehensive approach of the project, the involvement
of MOB staff and communities in the project, and the large amount of project-
related training would all encourage change in the right direction.



-35-
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, government provided assurances that it
would:
(a) carry out a mid-term evaluation of the project by December 31,
1988 and final evaluation of the project by December 31, 1991
(para. 5.19);
(b) review annually with the Bank by September 30 the proposals
for project-related research to be carried out the following
year (para. 5.19);
(c) maintain a Project Management Unit during the project
implementation period and staff it with a full-time director,
two architectural staff, an accountant, a procurement specialist
and adequate support staff (para. 7.03);
(d) submit to the Bank for review the terms of reference and
qualifications of specialists recruited under the project
(para. 7.07);
(e) submit to the Bank each year by July 31 the proposed project-
related training program to be carried out the following
calendar year (para. 7.08);
(f) acquire by July 31, 1986 all sites for construction to be financed
under the project (para. 7.09);
(g) establisb and operate a revolving fund for the project in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 7.18);
(h) submit accounts and audit reports to the Bank within six months of
_he close of each fiscal year (para. 7.19);
(i) submit a Completion Report to the Bank within six months of the
Closing Date (para. 7.20).
9.02      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project constitutes
a suitable basis for an IBRD Loan of US$13.50 million equivalent to the Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan.



IV/
I 
I Q5
lk
K~



- 37 -
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN             ANNEX 1
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT           Page 1 of 2
HEALTH AND POPULATION DATA SHEET 1
A.  General Country Data                                            Year
1.  Population Estimate (millions)                               2.5    1983-84
2.  Population Projection (millions)                             4.3    2000
3.  GNP per Capita (US$)                                     1,690       1982
4.  Urban Population (Z of total)                               70       1982
5.  Adults Literate (I of populatiln 12+ years of age)          70       1982
6.  Area (East and West Banks) (km )                        98,000       1982
7. Populatiol Density (East and West Banks)
(per km  of agricultural land)                           203.9    1981
B.   Population
1.  Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)                                45       1982-84
2.  Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                                11       1983
3.  Annual Rate of Population Growth (Z)                         4.0    1983
4.  Annual Rate of Natural Increase (Z)                          3.4    1983
5.  Total Fertility Rate                                         7.0    1983
6. Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)                            69       1983
7.  Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                            64       1982
8. Population Age Structure (x)
0-14 years                                             50.6    1983
15-64 years                                             46.5    1983
65+ years                                              2.9    1983
9.  Women in Childbearing Ages
(15-49 years of age as Z of total population)             18.0    1982
10. Percentage of Women of Childbearing Age
Using Contraception                                       26.0    1983-84
C.   Health Sector Resources
1.  Doctors per 1,000 Population                                 1.2    1983
2.  Hospital Beds per 1,O00 Population                           1.8    1983
3.  Short-Stay Beds per 1,000 Population                         1.6    1982
4.  Governmental Expenditure on Health as Z of GDP               2.6    1982
5.  Governmental Expenditure on Health as Z of GNP               2.1    1982
6.  MOR Budget as Z of Total Governmental Budget                 2.7    1983
D.   Hospital Utilization
1.  Total Admissions per 1,000 Population                       91       1983
2.  Total Patient days per 1,000 Population                    410       1983
3.  Average Occupancy Rate (C)                                  62.2    1983
4.  Average Length of Stay (days)                                4.5    1983
5.  Percent of Hospital Beds Located in Aman                    71.9    1983
1Unless otherwise indicated, all data refer to the East Bank only.



- 38                          ANE% I
Page 2 of 2
Data are recent estimates made by the appraisal mission and are based on
the following documents:
(a) IBRD, 1984. World Development Report;
(b) IBRD, EPD, 1984. Social Indicators Data Sheet, Table 3A (June);
(c) IBRD, PHN, 1984. Jordan Health Sector Review (Report No. 4748-JO)
(may 25);
(d) Jordan Fertility and Family Health Survey, 1983;
(e)  Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Ministry of Health, 1982 and 1983.
Annual Reports, Amman;
(f)  Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, MiUistry of Health, 1984.  Estimates
prepared based on results of 1982 and 1983 Annual Reports, Amman.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
HASHENITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MAIN DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Bank Documents
Jordan Health Sector Review. (Report No. 4748-JO), World Bank,
May 25, 1984.
B.  Proiect Proposal
"Project Preparation Information," Ministry of Health,
July 19, 1984.
"Promotion and Expansion of Health Care Services of
the Ministry of Health, Jordan," Project Proposal, volume I,
Ministry of Health, September 1984.
"Promotion and Expansion of Health Care Services of the
Ministry of Health, Jordan," The Annexes, volume II,
Ministry of Health, September 1984.
"Supplementary Information for the Project Proposal,"
Ministry of Health, November 1984.
"Draft Project Implementation Manual," Ministry of Health, January
1985.
"Project Implementation Manual," Ministry of Health, March 1985.
C. USAID Documents
Jordan: Health Education Project. USAID, 1980.
Jordan: Health Management and Services Develoyment, IJSAID, 1983.
D. Other Background Information
"Housing and Population Census - 1979; Summary Results for Localities
in the East Bank, Jordan Department of Statistics, April 1982.
Jordan Demographic Survey. 1981: A Summerv of Results,
Laboratories for Population Statistics, June 1983.
Jordan Fertility Survey - 1976, Jordan, Department of Statistics,
Jordan Five Year Development Plan (1981-1985.
Jordan National Planning Council, 1981.
"Maternal and Child Health Services," Abbas, Dr. Adnan, 1983.
Statistical Yearbook of the Ministry of Health. Ministry
of Health, 1982; 1983 (in Arabic).



- 40 -
ANR 3
Jcin  PNMu  WAU  CAR PIJW
wmiu, wsi ii        w  DEn           JUs auroo
I                 COMPONENT
I                                               I
IStrgttmiz  I
CaorY   Izrovig  I               I           I  P2m       I        Pnysical    Price
of          milth   I  EUilth   I fqumdirg  I Ih l mt, I Bue    Cmtin-   Cmt-n-   IL
Euiditwe  ICa          I   _r  I  Blth   I leueach aid I Cot                               Mre g en  aW
Services  IDevelwt I d.Atima  I Eaiuatixm  I
Civil bdwS       8,987.6        -          -          -        8,987.6    898.7   2,624.6 12,510.9
Furniture        1,371.9        -          -        28.4       1,400.3    140.0    506.4  2,046.7
Eqftdipnt        3,316.9        -         225.7    38.2        3,580.8    358.1   1,288.1  5,227.0
Vebicles         1,073.5        -         214.8    30.4        1,318.7    131.9    424.7  1,875.3
oversa
Fellomhips        -          465.8       -          -          465.8      46.6    169.3   681.7
local Trainizg      -        5,788.0       -          -        5,788.0     -       1,967.0  7,755.0
Cmmultant
Services          -           -          -       354.4         354.4      -        112.6   467.0
hue Cost        14,749.9     6,253.8      440.5   451.4       21,895.6   1,575.3   7,02.7 30,563.6
Physical
Cutingencies    1,474.9       46.7       44.0      9.7       1,575.3     -         -        -
Price
Cmtingeucies    4,647.8    2,136.2       168.8    139.9      7,092.7     - -                -
TOIAL COST       20,872.6    8,436.7      653.3   601.0       30,563.6     -        -      30,563.6
MM: Row and Column totals my nt grae due to runliDg.
April 2, 1985



- 41 -                      ANIC 4
X-   PlDLM BMAU CARE   W
FflcmE   PLOJ i PRWB  tX34Kt
(!E$D000)
Total
Base    Iocal   Foreip Gg            ISM
COst    Cost      CDst   Finuncixg Finsn-iig
4provig Health Care
Services               14,749.9   5,736.0   9,013.8   5,736.0   9,013.8
Health NIpxower
Develojm nt             6,253.8   5,255.8    998.0   6,253.8     -
pandig Hbealth
F4ucatiom                 440.5     44.0    396.5       44.0    396.5
P]auzimen
PResearch and
-mustnion                 451.4    344.9    106.5    370.4        81.0
Base Cost                21,895.6  11,370.8  10,524.8  12,404.2   9,491.3
Phsical Ctcies            1,575.3    584.3    991.1    626.2    949.2
Price Clt     ].cies      7,092.7   3,622.0   3,470.8   4,033.2   3,059.5
MUEAL Con                30,563.6  15,577.1  14,986.7  17,063.6  13,500.0
MMZ: Rx axi colum totals my not qree due to =unauig.
April 2, 1965



AM S
Ja     NWV  HMn CARE M=:T
FWWC1IN PUN N CA1W  LV EII9            ADD PM  m cu9u
(WSOOD)
I                                                     COMPONENT                                                            I
I                                                                                                                          I
I  I                          I                             IStrugtimiq P1laizb, 1:qssit,I           Physical  Prkie
ltmproviri Health Care Services  I  HNlth leyawr DrSewlt   I bpwir8 Health Flicaticn   I    Resezmh  d Evahastiwn          I bee  cGtin- Cati-   GnnJ
Category   I                             I                              I                                                             I Cost   gecias geci    Total
I Total       l      IIRD    I  Total      COJ      IUR    I TotAl       GMl     IR      | Total       tl          IJW   I
IhDs@ Cost Firncizi  Firwociog ID Cost  Fmcitg  Vi rigU  Dune Cost Firciui   7zmrize   lia cst  FiniZU            Fi-maciI
Civil lIbwr    8,987.6   4,858.0   4,129.6       -                                                            -          -         -      8,9B7.6   898.7  2,624.6  12,510.9
Fumiture        1,371.9     439.0     932.9      -         -         -         -         -        -          28.4       9.1       19.3    1,400.3   140.0    506.4  2,046.7
bAWipMt         3,316.9     331.6   2,985.3      -         -         -         225.6     22.6    203.0       38.2       3.8       34.4    3,580.8   358.1  1,288.1  5,227.0
Vehicles        1,073.5     107.5     966.0      -         -         -         214.9      21.5    193.4      30.4       3.1       27.3    1,318.7   131.9    424.7  1,875.3
Felliwhips      -         -         -          465.8     465.8     -          -         -         -         -          -         -        465.8.   46.6    169.3    681.7
IUal Trainirg     -         -         -        5,788.0   5,788.0                -                                                         5,788.0     -    1,957.0  7,755.0
C,mltat
Sevices         -         -         -           -          -       -          -         -         -        354.4    354.4        -        354.4     -       112.6    467.0
mue Cost       14,749.9   5,736.0   9,013.8    6,253.8   6,253.8    -         440.5      44.1     396.4    451.4    370.4         81.0   21,895.6     -       -        -
Fyical
Cantingedies  1,474.9     573.6    901.3        46.7      46.7     -          44.0       4.5      39.5       9.7       1.3       8.4    1,575.3             -        -
Price
atuingeuines  4,647.8   1,744.6   2,903.2    2,136.2   2,136.2     -         168.8      16.4    152.4      139.9      92.0      47.9    7,092.7     -       -        -
(WZ   ITM      20,872.6  d,054.2  12,818.3    8,436.7   8,436.7      -        653.3      65.0    588.3    601.0    463.7         137.3   30,563.6 1,575.3  7,092.7 30,563.6
I..        ......  ,....       .... ....... ..-..-.
MME: kw uMd colum totals my not aree due to madiIg.
April 2, 1985



--                                                              ______ ___ ___ ___-------------- --- - ------ ----
-  -------------------------------- "-----------                *
III[-il--- -I--   - - -               ----------r --
- - ----- ---r-- -
_  I                       -        ----------     -
-- - == = =====- ==-=-==-=-==-=-==-=                  -== -=-==-=-= == -  
1-------____---------- -- -------- ------------------t-_ 
1=---     ------------------------------------------t--!|
I ~-------------------------------------------
r---    -   ----------------------------------------------1---l
r--- -------------------------------------rl  
--I---------------- -- --- -- --- -- ----- --
-----------------------------------------------~                         
r--- - ~~~~~------------------------
----------------------------------------------ra-l
,___- ___-__-_-_----------------------_-,~---------------------------------------r-l
'------------------------------------------------u- 
l--- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -- - -- - -- - -- --- -- - -- - - -_ _ _ l_ S l| 
--------------------------------------------r~
-----------------------------------------------------r-l-
---------------------------------------
r---------------------------------------------------lr-l
- - - - - -~ ~ ~~~-- ------------ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
------------------------------------------------r-   
E JO I *f4
9 xglU9



-~~~~~~ I
11              i         Ii i 
I_____1                                         |U   I i 1rm 
- -  -  - -- -- -  -  - -- -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -     
--  -- -----                        -    -- --   fA
-I~ -  
L___ ____________  ____                      I_>-
r-----------------------------------------r- 
r    ---------------- ---------~----r--
r---------------------------------    ---
r---- -------- ----------- -------------- 
I _   --    -----    --   -I--_--   ------
I____ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
I__  I---------------------------------- EL
r-- ------ --------------W-----------------r A
r------ -- ------"-------------------- 
r--__________  _____I^_____"______Xt
I _              _  _R                
r----- -- ------------------------    
--   ------ -- --------------------------1--     
r-   ----    ---------------------- 
r----   ---------------------------r 
----   ------------------------r- I                  
r--            ----------~~--  --rf------
1                                IC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
----  ---- ------------------------------1--  - 
r--   ~ ~ ----------------------r"- 
r--    --    ----------~~~~~-~~~-r
j___ __* i_____________~~~~~
r-- - - - ------ -- --  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --===== =- - -==
r--- -- -----------------------------r-
-r   -  ----  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - --r- -I 
r--          ----------------------------r-0I  
r--              -----------------------r
r-I__--------------------- 
r-I__-----------r|   
I-            I---------------rCX  
I----------------------_     
I                                           1wZ S
9 XiU-



l-            ------
~  II       i   a            
- - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - -- - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -   J  ---K-- i-- 
r----------------------r- 
-I
-------------------            _
I_    __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I__
L_ _         _1 _       _       S 
__  __ __ __ __ __ ____  I__
r-- -----------------
r----------------------
---- -----------r-
F------ ---------g----r---- 
---r---- ----r-sEf
r -- ----r-----
----  ---  -- ---r---
-- - - - - - -          --- - - 
EL
Cr  -- -        ------     -r-  V     
.-- ----------r  
I-r ----------------r 
r --- --------- ----r 
r                           I
r------ ------------------
r - - ______ - ---------r-
r------ ---------------   -
r ----------------r-- -
r------------------- --1-W- 
r------------------------
9_ _ _-
I   _   -- - ----------- IflIK
r_       --                I    I    3.
9 ff    - S7 - ~ ~ ~ ~ - 



I} -- -IF-I I                I      F ( -- -----------:-----------------
R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  -r----- I---- --   --r---g---- _____  - ___ _______
Ii N IS ii                   I=    i              1   l-I(I r11I e                                                           0
- - --- - -   - - --    -F-r~l~~S~                   -j~ j~          ~| |- - - - - - --- - -  - - - --I
,---F--,-    --,----S-- -----f--- ----,----F                   -I----.----l---                                 I
n                                                      - i    L   F   [  F ~~F~~~F~~~~F~~~F~~~F~~~~~F~~~0~~~~~r-r--l IEL
-   - -     - -     - -       - -   - -     - -     - -     - -  
:Iic                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iIa
I                                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-     -I      --              ----   --I___  -----         ----    ---                    -- ----I          
~~~~~N  ~~~~~~~~~~~N  *                                                        IRI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
N~~~~     ~ -I  -                                                                        I      --- ---   Iui: ------           ---- --       
I-   -  --   -  --   r    --rr -  --rr -      - -     -       -----r----:t        -         



n  w                                                     
-- -- - -- -- - -- - --  -- - -- -  -- -- - --  ---l---    l---- ---- :--X
l--------8-----8--------- -- -----l--j---------------------laleE
--------------11--- -- ------------I--I------X- --  --s-----
4-----------------I----------------- -- -----I----------------------S----S
I~~                               I-I        I           Il
[-----------------------------------I--I-----------1-------------
-- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - --  - - -- - -  -- - -H- -   -



- 48 -                    AM  9
ISDV saB CF D               _SUSM
Disbusaws         Acumltd             W    iiaur
Fi1a Year/                                                 BalanceIh
Smotr ,e ::    hmt              Z    Awu;ts      X  :wit : 
Fn 1965            :                     
Jme    30, 1985 :: 0.0  :0.0:   0.0  :0.0:  13.5  :100.0
nY 1986            :                     
Dee  r, r 31, 1985 :: 0.5  :  3.7:   0.5  :  3.7:  13.0  :96.3
ime    30, 1986 :: 0.3  :  2.2:   0.8  :  5.9:  12.7  :-94.1
December 31, 1986 :: 0.4  :  3.0:   1.2  :  8.9:  12.3   :91.1
J-e    30, 1987 :: 0.6  :  4.4:   1.8  : 13.3:  11.7  :86.7
xedmber 31, 1987 :: 1.3  :  9.6 :   3.1  : 23.0:  10.4  :7n.0
Jue     30, 1988   ::1.4  : 10.4 :   4.5  : 33.3:  9.0  :66.7
Deeber 31, 1938 :    1.9  : 14.1 :   6.4  : 47.4 :   7.1  : 52.6
June    30. 1989 :: 2.1  : 15.6 :   8.5  : 63.0 :   5.0   : 37.0
Fi 1990            :                     
aD ae   31, 1989 :: 1.7  : 12.6 :  10.2  : 75.6 :   3.a   : 24.4
Jime    30, 1990 :: 1.5  : 11.1 :  11.7  : 86.7 :   1.8   : 13.3
nrf 1991           :                     
De!cabe 31, 1990 :: 1.0  :  7.4 :  12.7  : 94.1 :   0.8   :  5.9
Jhme    30, 1991 :: 0.5  :  3.7 :  13.2  : 97.8 :   0.3   :  2.2
Rf 1992            :                     
Decemer 31, 199 :: 0.2  :  1.5 :  13.4  : 99.3 :   0.1   :  0.7
Jile    30, 1992 :: 0.1  :  0.1 :  13.5  :100.0 o       o.o      o.o
Decfle 31, 1992 :                     
NME: Raw and cohml totals wy nDt zree due to rumig.
April. 2, l9B5



LEBANON
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC                 X
r' '\ IRAQ
-5Shajara
KufaqY
AIfun
IRDID\\\\"L    
(     AYV      l,                          .                   SAUDI ARABIA
? KARAK/
ISRAEL    f         Al-Hu"   /
/~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~AD ARABIA ,
ISRAL    - AI-Husmlnle\
Shoubak*
MA AN                              IORIfAM
0            a5  . *    _..



Ks       'lll,           ,'ii
--Al-H~Al-ulselnlth\
/ ShOUbak 
i houbak                                               MA'AN                                  2               JORDAN
5    WMaodI4                                                                             ,F FIRST  HEALTH   PROJECT
'AySl                                                                                       HEALTH CARE CENTERS
)   |  /        *      PRInMARY HEALTH CARE CENTERS TO BE
I                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UPG RADED (9)
_3q                    Muraigha                                                                                         NEW PRIMARY HEALTH CARE CENTERS (251
''     PRIMARY HEALTH CARE CENTERS TO BE
UPGRADC.O TO COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH
CARE C SNTERS (43
/        3J <                                                                                              91     NEW COMIREHENSIVE HEALTH CARE
(                             I                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CENTER-- (13)
AJ-Qualra                                                                                              NATIONAL LAPITAL
/ Aj aba      Al-Gt-a                                                                                          . __     _ GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
OCCUPIED TERRITORIES
Thi wp has bow priie by
- -                                                                                                  5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~taw w Mu cw.w~* tar f
/                                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"w use of Tlw Nob  am*
'  d M thVinu Fiwarc
r  SAUDI ARABIA                                            20     40      60      80     100                                   k467635"             _
SAUDI  ARABIA                                                                                       ,w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rp mm"a o g tam -
KILOMETERS                                                                              o a I  I  onyS frNor4  or "0
0                                                                          oh" sa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,rs.,v or mwqvee of  CY)
360                                                                    38                             stu bou%w*vjs      (C
n                                             II_                                                                   I                                             _  0






