Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-4024-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 13.5 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
April 12, 1985
This document has a resticted distibudou and may be tsed by recipients ozly in the perfomance of
their Official dudes Its contents may not oherwise be dLclosed without World Bank atborizadon.



HASHEMITE KINGDOM. OF JORDAN
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984      December 1984
Currency Unit = Jordan Dinar (JD)
US$1.00       =       JD .384             JD .403
JD1.00        =        US$2.60             US$2.48
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report JDI = US$2.53
GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CHC -    Comprehensive Health Care
IUD -    Intrauterine Device
JUJ -    Jordan University Hospital
MCH -    Maternal and Child Health
MOH -    Ministry of Health
PHC -    Primary Health Care
RMS -    Royal Medical Services
UNRWA - United Nations Relief Works Agency
VC -     Village Clinic
WHO -    World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Beneficiary:              The Ministry of Health (MOH).
Amount:                    US$13.5 million equivalent.
Terms:                     15 years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:       The project would support the Government's efforts
to reorganize primary health care (PEC) in Jordan
and would improve the coverage, quality, and
efficiency of PHC, including birth spacing services,
and of outpatient referral care in the basic medical
specialties. The project would include: (a) the
establishment of 25 new PKC centers, the
refurbishing of 9 PHC centers, and the establishment
of 17 comprehensive health care centers; (b)
training for personnel at all levels to work in the
new health care facilities; (c) audio-visual
equipment, materials and vehicles to improve and
expand health, population and nutrition education;
and (d) funds for local consultants for evaluation
of the project, research on key sector topics,
preparation of future projects, and project
management. The project is expected to reach over a
third of Jordan's population, including a large
number of urban and rural poor. It should have a
significant impact on health in Jordan and in
particular help bring about a reduction in mortality
and morbidity of women of childbearing age, infants
and children. The main risk of the project is that
the demand for MOB services may be less than
anticipated. This risk is being addressed by
involving communities in the project at an early
stage, and by linking improvements in the quality
and coverage of health care with an improved
referral system.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofril duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discbsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: 1/                    Local      Foreign     Total
- --(US$ million)--
Improving Health Care Services         5.7         9.0       14.7
Health Manpower Development            5.3         1.0        6.3
Expanding Health Education             0.0         0.4        0.4
Strengthening Planning,
Management Research
and Evaluation                       0.3         0.1        0.4
Base Cost                    11.3        10.5       21.8
Physical Contingencies                 0.6         1.0        1.6
Price Increases                        3.6         3.5        7.1
TOTAL COST_                  15.5        15.0       30.5
Financing Plan:
Proposed World Bank Loan               0.0        13.5       13.5
Government Contribution               15.5         1.5       17.0
TOTAL                        15.5        15.0       30.5
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
(Us$ million)
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990    1991   1992
Annual                     0.8    1.0    2.7      4.0    3.2    1.5    0.3
Cumulative                 0.8    1.8    4.5      8.5   11.7   13.2   13.5
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5441-JO, dated April 11, 1985.
Map Number: IBRD 18690.
1/ Does not include direct taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT CF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN FOR A PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan of US$13.5 million equivalent to help
finance a Primary Health Care Project. The loan would be for 15 years,
including three years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report entitled "Jordan Review of the Five-Year Plan"-(No. 4129-JO,
dated May 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1983. An
economic mission visited the country in May/June 1983; its findings have been
included in the present text.    Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Recent Economic Developments
3.       Conscious of the country's limited natural resources, its relatively
narrow productive base and the sensitiveness of the economy to changes in its
oil-rich regional environment, the Government has pursued liberal,
outward-looking policies in trade, labor migration and foreign exchange. This
has enabled Jordan to alleviate the effects of a very high natural population
growth rate (3.4 percent) through massive emigration stimulated by high
salaries in the neighboring countries and through rapid expansion of domestic
production fueled by an exceptionally high investment rate and rapidly growing
export demand. At present, a large part of Jordan's total workforce is
employed abroad. In addition to sizable workers' remittance inflows, Jordan
has benefited from large inflows of grant aid from neighboring countries as
well as from a rapid increase in regional demand for its exports. During the
period 1976-82, the yearly inflow of workers' remittances and grants reached
on average close to two-thirds of Jordan's GDP. The abundant supply of these
resources and a favorable entrepreneurial climate enabled Jordan to maintain
both very high consumption and investment rates.
4.       As a result, the Jordanian economy expanded rapidly with an annual
average GDP growth rate of over 10 percent in real terms during the 1976-82
period; almost full employment was reached. The overall balance of payments
remained strong despite a large chronic deficit in merchandise trade.
Although exports of goods and non-factor services (primarily agricultural
products, manufactured goods, tourism and exports of the new commodities,
fertilizers and potash) grew at a rapid rate of about 16 percent in real terms
1/ This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Greater Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project (P-3913-JO), dated
December 5, 1984.
2/  All references are to the East Bank of Jordan.



during 1976-82, its small base in relation to imports led to a continuous
deterioration of the resource gap. These trade deficits, however, were almost
fully covered by factor income and transfers from abroad. Government-
guaranteed external borrowing remained therefore within reasonable limits and
borrowing on commercial terms was reduced to a modest level (para. 14).
5.       Beginning in 1982, however, the economic slowdown in the neighboring
countries has affected the Jordanian economy in many ways; it led to a
slowdown of domestic economic activity and a reduction in the inflow of
external transfers. The overall economic growth rate slowed to about
5.5 percent (in real terms) in 1983, still a satisfactory performance
considering the present unfavorable economic environment; foreign grant aid
was about 25 percent lower, and workers' remittances stagnated while exports
of manufactured goods and services to neighboring countries declined. The
effect of these factors was exacerbated by a marked decline in exports of raw
and processed minerals. Imports also declined, in line with the sizable
reduction in public and private investments. As a-result, the current account
deficit for 1983 showed only a slight increase to $390 million. It was mainly
covered by the proceeds of a $225 million Eurodollar-loan contracted in early
1983. Jordan also drew on its reserves, which remained, however, equal to
three months of imports. Preliminary estimates for 1984 show the decline in
merchandise imports continuing, which, combined with a modest increase in
exports of goods, contributed to an improvement in the balance of trade, from
a deficit of nearly $2.4 billion in 1983 to about $2.1 billion in 1984.
However, a sharp reduction in official transfers more than offset the decline
-n imports, and the current account deficit deteriorated to $500 million.
6.       With the decline in Government revenues from grants, public
investment has been reduced, and the Government has further intensified its
domestic resource mobilization efforts through cuts in subsidies and improved
collection of direct and indirect taxes (about 99 percent of recurrent
expenditures is covered by domestic revenues).
7.       The main concerns of monetary policy have been mobilizing savings and
controlling domestic liquidity. Private savings have improved, but public
savings have continued to be negative because of the high level of defense
expenditures. To promote domestic savings, greater discretion is being
allowed the Central Bank in adjusting interest rates and banking commissions.
As a result of increases in deposit rates in 1983, savings deposits rose
faster than the money supply. A parallel siLuation materialized in 1984
though both savings deposits and the money supply grew at slower rates in that
year. Together with a marked decline in inflation to 4.5 percent in 1984,
these increases have resulted in interest rates becoming substantially
positive again in real terms.
Medium-Term Prospects
8.       Given the changed situation and outlook in the neighboring oil
producing countries, continuing GDP growth in the 9-11 percent range as
projected by the 1981-85 Plan would no longer appear feasible in the medium
term; a rate in the neighborhood of 5 percent per annum in real terms appears
more likely during the next Plan (1986-90). This projection assumes a
reduction in the exceptionally high level of investments achieved during the



early 1980s, which was mainly due to implementation of a number of major new
projects such as potash, fertilizer and a refinery, now at initial stages of
production. While the new, major natural resource-based industries have
provided some new employment opportunities in the short term, the economic
slowdown is likely to change the manpower situation in Jordan from one of
selective shortages to one of general excess supply requiring finding
employment for a rapidly increasing domestic workforce (para. 12).
9.       The industrial sector (including mining, manufacturing and
construction) is expected to continue to lead the growth of GDP and exports.
The new industries are expected to contribute more than one third towards
incremental GDP during 1984-85. Together with an expansion of phosphate
mining and cement production, total industrial output would grow at a brisk
annual rate of about 10.8 percent for 1984-85 but slow down to an underlying
rate of 7.5 percent per annum for the period 1987-90. Since the rapid
expansion of infrastructure and private housing during the boom years of the
1970s and early 1980s has-slowed down substantially, the construction industry
is likely to grow at a substantially lower rate (3 percent) during 1986-90.
Thus, industrial growth during the next plan period will have to rely
increasingly on development of more small and medium-scale higher technology
manufacturing, largely for exports. The projected 7.5 percent for industrial
growth assumes that adjusL- ent of the industrial sector in this direction will
be achieved, inter alia through changes in protection policies and
improvements in export incentives.
10.      Curtailment in growth of public expenditures and the slowdown in
domestic and foreign demand for banking and transportation services are
expected to slow down growth of services to an average annual rate of little
over 3 percent per annum for 1984-87. In particular, it is expected that the
transportation sector and the hotel industry, which at present are facing
large surplus capacity, will undergo a period of consolidation. In the trade
sector, efficiency gains from modernization would likely be offset by
increased pressure from higher unemployment to expand the less efficient
informal sector of trade. In contrast to the expected slow growth performance
of traditional private services, the prospects are favorable to exploit
Jordan's potential in skilled labor and meet the demand for special services
in areas such as consulting, contracting, and maintenance. Agriculture is
projected to continue to grow by about 5 percent per annum. Overall, the
sectoral growth rates would enable Jordan to maintain a comfortable GDP growth
rate of about 5 percent per annum for 1984-85, which would seem suscairable
throughout the 1980s.
11.      On the external balance side, the projections assume that exports of
goods and non-factor services would grow by an average rate of about 7 percent
per annum in real terms for 1985-90. Exports from the output of previous and
new, industrial natural resource based projects to the world market would make
the largest contribution to this growth performance. The export projections
for the later 1980s assume that adequate measures are taken to develop
Jordan's manufacturing exports. The external balance projections assume that
imports would increase less rapidly because of the slow overall economic
growth rate and the expected sizable reduction in the level of investments
after completion of the major industrial projects.  Even though me,-chandise
exports are projected to approach a high rate of increase while imrorts would



- 4 -
grow at a significantly lower rate, the trade deficit could remain large and
exceed the $2.1 billion mark in 1985. In relation to GDP, however, the
resource gap is expected to show a further decline from about 56 percent in
1984 to about 37 percent in 1987. Unlike the past, net workers' remittances
and foreign grants, which are likely to decline, may not be sufficient to meet
the growing trade deficit. Jordan therefore would have to rely more on
external borrowing (para. 15). In order to maintain its prudent build-up of
external debt, Jordan will need to combine external borrowing with increased
efforts to mobilize domestic resources, particularly in the public sector.
Social Issues
12.      Due to the substantial migration of Jordanian workers to neighboring
countries and the rapid economic growth, the labor market situation has been
characterized until recently by selective manpower shortages. However,
according to recent manpower projections, supply of labor in Jordan in the
medium term is likely to show selective surpluses, particularly throughout
certain categories of skilled professionals. In 1983, it is estimated that
312,000 Jordanians were working abroad compared to a total domestic employment
of about 570,000. Domestic employment includes at present a relatively large
number of foreign workers currently estimated at about 130,000, half of whom
are unskilled. A comprehensive manpower and training plan is needed to help
ensure that the education and training system is geared to meet both domestic
and external demands for manpower.
13.      The Government has emphasized social issues in the current Five-Year
Plan (1981-85). AlLhough the social indicators are relatively favorable in
most sectors, social services are unevenly distributed across income groups
and between urban and rural areas. Housing remains a problem despite the boom
in 1978-80, mainly because housing costs have far exceeded the means of the
lower income groups.
External Assistance
14.      With the large, chronic trade deficit offset by inflows of
remittances and foreign transfers, the current account of the balance of
payments was on average in equilibrium through 1975-81. Net workers'
remittances increased from about $160 million in 1975 to about $900 million in
1983 and 1984. Following the Baghdad Arab Summit Conference in November 1978,
which pledged assistance of about $1.2 billion per year over a 10-year period,
net foreign grant aid rose from $400-500 million in 1977-78 to about
$1.3 billion in 1980 and 1981; it declined to some $0.8 billion in 1983 and to
$0.4 billion in 1984. This decline was the main reason for the current
account deficits of $390 million in 1983, and $500 million in 1984, both of
which were financed largely by external borrowing and partly by drawing on
reserves. The external public debt outstanding and disbursed reached
$2.0 billion at the end of 1984 (about 45 percent of GNP). External debt
service payments amounted to $316 million in 1984 or 9.4 percent of total
exports of goods and services.
15.      Jordan's impressive growth, pragmatic economic and social policies
and efficient economic management have helped to attract large amounts of
foreign assistance. The grant component of this foreign assistance is



projected to decline gradually in real terms over the next few years. The
projections on that basis indicate a need for average gross external borrowing
of about $0.7 billion over the 1985-1990 period, mostly in later years. While
bilateral and multilateral sources can be expected to provide the bulk of
external resources, Jordan is likely to resort increasingly to the financial
markets, and this would result in a hardening of loan terms. On these
assumptions, the debt service ratio as a percentage of exports of goods and
services is projected to reach 11.2 percent by 1987 and some 13.3 percent by
1990.  Given this outlook and the country's record of prudent management,
Jordan remains creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.      Jordan has received 16 Bank loans totalling $410.8 million and 15 IDA
credits totalling $86.1 million (net of cancellations), of which all the
credits and two loans have been fully disbursed. Project implementation and
disbursement performance have been generally satisfactory. In recent years,
disbursements have amounted to about 50-60 percent of appraisal estimates.
IFC has-made investments in Jordan with total commitments of $94.2 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1984.
17.      Under its last two development plans, Jordan has aimed at
restructuring its economy to achieve a wider manufacturing base, reduce its
dependence on external grants, and spread the benefits of development among
different regions. The Bank's strategy has been tailored to support those
objectives and in particular is designed to help the Government: (a) to
diversify the country's economic base and promote exports; (b) to alleviate
manpower and infrastructure constraints in the productive sectors; and (c) to
encourage more balanced growth and distribution of social services among
regions and income groups, with particular emphasis on low-income groups.
18.      Within this broad framework, past lending has emphasized support for
capital infrastructure and manpower development. Since 1962, Bank Group
lending has focussed on water supply and sewerage, power and energy
development, education and urban and municipal development. The Bank Group
has also lent for irrigation, agricultural and industrial credit,
transportation, and tourism. In addition, the Bank Group has financed
technical assistance for developing and implementing a plan for expanding
phosphate rock mining.  An engineering credit was made in FY75 to help prepare
a large project for potash production from the Dead Sea via solar evaporation,
for which a loan was approved in September 1978. These projects have been
designed with an emphasis on institution building to assist the agencies
involved to develop their capabilities to plan, prepare, and implement
projects on their own. In addition to the proposed health project, future
lending would include projects for mining, transportation, water supply and
sewerage, urban development, power and energy development, and industry. IFC
has provided loans and equity contributions for a major fertilizar project and
for projects in the construction materials subsector. It has also assisted
the capital market and leasing ventures.
19.      The Bank has recently helped the Government to review the energy,
water supply, health, and urban sectors, and the Bank's economic and sector



work will continue to focus on strengthening the macroeconomuic and sector base
for our lending program. The Bank's economic work program aims to deepen and
broaden the well-established policy dialogue with the Government in three
priority areas: (i) development planning, with a focus on resotrce
mobilization and allocation; (ii) industrial and trade policies, including
technology transfer and export strategy/promotion and industrial subsector
studies; and (iii) regional development and equity and efficiency of
government revenues and social expenditures. These subjects are cruci'l
because the substantially tighter balance of paymerts situation expected for
the rest of the decade calls for increased efforts to step up domestic
resource mobilization, to stimulate manufactured exports and to optimize
resource aLlocation, while making particular efforts to reduce rural and urban
poverty.
20.      At the end of 1983, the actual Bank Group share in Jordan's total
external p-"'ic debt was estimated at 12 percent, and its share in debt
service was 5 percent.  In 1985, the Bank Group's slares in debt outstanding
and in debt service are expected to be about 13 and 8.5 percent respectively.
PART III - THE HEALTH SECTOR
Population, Health and Nutritional Status
21.      During the last two decades, the population of the East Bank of
JordanI' grew at an annual rate of 4.8 percent (including immigration) and
more than doubled. The reasons for this rapid growth have been sharply
reduced mortality rates, very high fertility, and a very heavy volume of net
immigration over the last 20 years. If the current rate of natural increase
of 3.4 percent continues, the population would grow from about 2.5 million
today to about 4.3 million in the year 2000. Children under 15 comprise about
half of the population. and Jordan has a high dependency ratio. About
70 percent of the population lives in urban areas, mostly in the three largest
cities of Amman, Zarqa, and Irbid.
22.      Health conditions in Jordan have improved dramatically in the last
two decades, but there are still critical problems of preventable diseases
that need to be addressed as a high priority. As a result of both improved
living conditions and better health care, mortality has declined rapidly in
the past two decades and life expectancy has risen from 47 years in 1960 and
to 64 in 1982. The crude death rate fell from 20 per 1,000 in 1961 to the
current 11 per 1,000. Although infant mortality declined by almost half
during that period to about 69 per 1,000 live births in 1983, it remains
somewhat higher than tile average rite for other upper middle-income countries
and is seven times the average for industrialized market economies.  Jordan
now exhibits a mixed pattern of morbidity and mortality, comprised of the
chronic disLase profile of industrialized countries and the infectious disease
pattern typical of developing countries. Diarrhea and respiratory diseases
are the most important causes of illness and death in children under five;
accidents and respiratory disease in those aged five to fourteen. For those
1/ All references that follow are to the East Bank of Jordan.



over 15 years of age, the main causes of death are heart, circulatory and
respiratory diseases, accidents and cancer. Jordan's major health problems
are preventable communicable diseases and complications of pregnancy and
childbirth. Children under five and women in the reproductive age group, who
make up 37 percent of the population, are the most vulnerable group,
accounting for a disproportionate share of morbidity and mortality.
23.      The nutritioxnal status of infants and children has improved
significantly during the last two decades, and the prevalence of malnutrition
appears to be low. Studies suggest that malnutrition is related to poverty,
the young age of new mothers, high fertility, inadequate breastfeeding and
diet supplementation, and deficient knowledge of dietary and health practices.
The Health Care System
24.      The Government has given a high priority to the health sector in the
last two decades.  During that period, it has made major efforts tc expand
facilities and increase the number and quality of health personnel; since
1975, the number of doctors, hospital beds, and health centers has more than
doubled. Although many Jordanians enjoy relatively good physical access to
health facilities, about 40 percent of the families in Jordan do not get
adequate primary health care. The most important gaps in coverage concern
women, infants, and children, particularly in the lower socioeconomic groups.
25.      There are four major health providers in Jordan.  The Ministry of
Health (MOH) is the largest, serving about 60 percent of the population
through 14 hospitals and 174 health centers. The PIOH: (i) provides care to
civil servants and their families; (ii) provides free care to families
certified as poor by the Government and free maternal and child health (MCH)
care and treatment for some communicable diseases and cancer; and (iii) covers
Jordanians not eligible for other services on a fee-for-service basis. The
MOH is essentially the only provider of care to civilians outside the large
towns and hence the only accessible and affordable source for most of the
rural and lower socioeconomic groups in Jordan. MOH services are presently
organized in four levels: (i) village clinics (VCs), which offer treatment of
simple health problems and referral to physicians; (ii) primary health care
(PHC) centers, which offer immunization, first-line treatment of illnesses and
referral to specialists; at the same level as the PHC centers, there are also
separate maternal and child health (MCH) care centers that offer immunization,
well-baby care and pre- and post-natal care; (iii) regional hospitals, which
offer outpatient specialty clinics and inpatient services; and (iv) the Al
Bashir hospital in Amman, which is the referral hospital for the rest of the
MOB system.
26.      The Royal Medical Ser,rices (RMS), through 6 hospitals and L4 health
centers, cares for members of the armed forces and their dependents, and
individuals requiring specialized care not available elsewhere. The United
Nations Relief Works Agency (UNRWA) provides primary care to refugees through
its 17 health centers and reimburses other providers for the cost of hospital
services deLivered to refugees. The Jordan University Hospital (JUH) provides
primary care and hospital services to a number of groups including the Jordan
University community and serves as a referral hospital for other parts of the



health system on a fee-for-service basis. The private sector delivers a
substantial volume of health services in Jordan through about 1,300 private
physicians, numerous clinics and 24 hospitals, mostly in large cities and
towns; it serves about 40 percent of the population at one time or another and
is the sole provider of services to 10-15 percent of the population.
27.      Provision of Family Planning Services.  ,t is estimated that about
26 percent of women aged 15-49 use some form of contraception. This rate
compares with contraceptive prevalence rates of 27 perrent in Morocco, 41
percent in Tunisia and 49 percent in Colombia.  The private sector provides
the bulk of family planning services in Jordan, including almost three
quarters of the pills and intrauterine deviceb (IUD) used. The major private
institutional provider is the Jordan Family Planning and Protection
Association, which has 15 clinics.  The Government makes pills and IUDs
available in its MCH centers, but these provide family planning to only about
one percent of the total number of eligible couples; the Government has a
program, however, to increase this percentage (para. 40). MOH and RMS
hospitals also provide some family planning services.
28.      Health Manpower.  Jordan has one of the highest physician/population
ratios among developing countries, and dentists and pharmacists are available
in adequate numbers. Nurses and professional midwives, however, are scarce,
and about half of the nursing staff are expatriates, working in Jordan on
contract. Health technicians are available in adequate numbers in some
categories, while shortages exist in others. Jordan is developing an
extensive system for training health sector personnel, which with some
strengthening should be able to support the training of health professionals
in the medium term.
29.      Health Expenditure and Financing.  Total expenditure on health in
1982 was about 5.2 percent of GDP, which was above the average for
middle-income countries. The Government accounted for about 58 percent of
total expenditure, the private sector for about 41 percent, and UNRWA for
about 1 percent. Public expenditure on health increased in real terms over
the past five years, growing from 10 to 11 percent of Government's annual
recurrent expenditure, and amounted to $39 per capita. However, recurrent
expenditure on health as a proportion of GNP fell from 2.4 to 2.1 percent.
The MOH since 1976 has spent annually about 14 percent of its recurrent budget
on preventive care and 72 percent on curative care.
30.      Each of the major health care providers has its own sources of
funding, and the piinciple of recovering at least some costs from patients is
well establisl.ed in' Jordan. The MOR operates principally on allocations from
the Governm-nt. however, patients' fees and payroll deductions from the civil
service insu_ance scna'me comprise l0-15 percent of total MOR funds and are
projected to rise to ,0 percent over the next five years.  Most RMS funds come
from the central bueget, but it also receives patients' fees and fees from MOR
referrals.  The  vT receives direct budgetary allocations and a transfer from
the Jordan University budget. In addition, fees from patients and deductions
from the university employees' insurance scheme make up about a third of its
funds. With regard to expenditure on health care provided by the private



sector, several of the largest private sector employers carry insurance for
their staff, although most people pay for private medical services from their
own funds.
Key Health Sector Issues
31.      Despite significant progress made in developing the sector, there
remains a considerable amount of illness and death in Jordan that is
preventable, particularly among infants, children, and women of reproductive
age.  This is the main health challenge confronting the Government today.  The
Bank's Health Sector Review (Report No. 4748-JO, dated May 26, 1984)
identified a number of priority issues that need to be addressed in the sector
S             if the Goverrnment is to meet this challenge.  First, the health system needs
to expand coverage, in particular, to infants, children and women of
child-bearing age. At the moment, many people, particularly pregnant women
and children, do not get essential health care services. As a result, pre-
and post-natal care, maternity and well-baby care are much less than
satisfactory; about two out of five births are not attended by professional
personnel, and half of the infants and children do not receive weHl-baby
care. The public health system has not provided adequate information and
services for birth spacing in the past. About one-quarter of the women who
bear children have an average interval between births of only 18 months, which
is linked to a threefold increase in child mortality compared with those born
more than 24 months apart; and women most in need of family planning services
among the poor have the least access to them, since MDH family p:anning
services are weak. However, the Government is taking steps to improve the
situation by strengthening MCH, including birth spacing, services (para. 40).
32.      In order to expand the coverage of the country's primary health care,
the ;40 will need to improve the system's efficiency and quality by addressing
the following critical weaknesses: (i) the system is passive and outreach is
limited; (ii) there are few trained health educators and little health
education; (iii) the referral system does not function effectively;
(iv) facilities and services are frequently inadequate; and (v) there are
critical problems concerning the delivery of MCH services, including family
planning services. In particular, the system of operating separate PHC and
MCH centers is inefficient and discourages the use of MCH facilities.  Centers
are also insufficiently staffed with physicians, female nurses, and midwives
and there are few dentists or laboratories in the centers. Almost no
deliveries outside of hospitals are attended by health professionals.
Furthermore, in the absence of midwives, physicians and other health care
personnel offer little MCH care. As a result of the above weaknesses, people
often use high-cost hospital services rather than lower cost local facilities,
because the type and quality of care at the local level are not satisfactory.
Thus, the demand for hospital services has frequently been much greater than
the hospitals could meet, and quality has suffered as a result. Specialists
in hospital outpatient clinics, for example, frequently see 60 to 70 patients
per day, and women are often asked to leave hospitals shortly after delivery.
33.      There is a mismatch of demand for and supply of certain categories of
health manpower in Jordan, which impedes the effective development of PHC
services. There is a shortage of midwives, female nurses, qualified
laboratory technicians, and professional health care administrators, and



- 10 -
imported nurses are not always effective because of language barriers. On the
other hand, there is an impending surplus of general practitioners and
physicians in some specialties. The MOH also needs to address some questions
of training and career development for health sector personnel. For example,
public health issues and MCH care have not been sufficiently stressed in the
education of most Jordanian health care personnel.
34.      Finally, the planning and management of the health sector needs to be
improved if Jordan is to make more efficient use of health sector resources.
Improvements are required in the MO[  management information system, since the
MOH has lacked the statistical information necessary to plan and manage the
sector. There are also important gaps in Jordan in the supervision of health
care personnel, since the staff available for supervision has not grown with
the rest of the system. It will also be important to strengthen the referral
system to encourage people to use the most appropriate facilities.
The Government's Strategies for Health, Population, and Nutrition
35.      It is likely that there will be increasing constraints on the
Government's overall resources for recurrent expenditure in the next decade.
Since the prospects for significant increases in the recurrent budget for
health are not great, it is clear that the Government needs to carefully plan
future sector development and maximize the efficiency of existing
infrastructure. The most efficient and cost-effective manner to deal with
Jordan's main health problems is by improving the access, quality and
efficiency of primary health care (PHC).
36.      The Government's 1981-85 development plan emphasized the need to
extend basic health services, strengthen primary health care and preventive
services and increase the quality and supply of health personnel. However, a
disproportionate share of resources in the plan was directed toward curative
and especially hospital care, which would have required a near-doubling of
future MOH budgets for current expenditures on curative care. The Government
has now revised its plan targets. It has shelved most of the program for
hospital construction and decided to focus its attention on strengthening PHC
and referral care in the basic specialties.
37.      As a first st.   in these directions, the MOB has begun to reorganize
its approach to PHC and to referral care in conjunction with a comprehensive
series of measures linking improvements in health services, training, health
education, management and facilities. These measures include: (i) increasing
the effectiveness of MCH care by integrating MCH services into regular PHC
centers and focussing on pre- and post-natal care of pregnant women,
attendance of deliveries by health care prof2ss:onals and well-baby care;
(ii) establishing a net ievel of the health system comprising "comprehensive
heialth care (CHC) ce-lters', which will supervise the activities of the PHC
ce.iters, serve as pria.ary care centers for adjacent populations and as
referral centers in the basic medical specialties for related PHC centers and
provide basic maternity, emergen-y. and laboratory services; (iii) increasing
the responsibility of PHC centers ror supervising village health clinics and
improving outreach activities by increasing the staffing at PHC centers



- 11 -
(para. 46) and by establishing mobile outreach teams to identify and treat
people who need care; and (iv) upgrading existing centers with inadequate
facilities and establishing new centers in order to expand access to PHC and
decentralize referral and maternity care.
38.      The Government is also taking steps to deal with the problems of
health manpower. These include: slowing down the supply of physicians by
tightening licensing requirements for foreign-trained physicians and
discouraging the continued use of large numbers of foreign fellowships for
their training; increasing the number of trained female nurses, midwives, and
medical tFechnicians, and registering and upgrading traditional birth
attendants; introducing physicians' residency programs in emergency medicine
and in family medicine; increasing the public health content of nurses'
training programs; and starting a graduate program in health care
administration.
39.      The GLvernment is also implementing a USAID-financed health education
project. Several Jordanians have already been trained in this area, and a
health education specialist is working with the MOH. The MOH has prepared a
five-year plan for developing health education and plans to strengthen the
Health Education Division in the MOH and place a health educator in each
governorate to supervise the implementation of health education programs.
USAID is also assisting the Government with a project to improve health sector
planning. This has led to several useful studies on disease patterns and to
the creation of a new management information system for the MOH. In addition,
a number of Jordanians will be trained in planning and management under the
project. The MOH is also developing a new referral system to prevent people
from bypassing the appropriate level of the health care system and is devising
measures to improve supervision of its PHC program.
40.      The Government has no explicit nutrition policy, but it does monitor
the growth of children and the nutritional status of pregnant women as part of
its MCH services, which can be expected to increase as the MOK increases the
coverage of the PHC system.  The Government's policy on family planning is to
provide information on family planning as a part of all MCH care and to offer
services in public facilities on request as an aid to birth spacing. The
Government also allows voluntary associations and private physicians to
provide family planning services on request for this purpose as well. The
Government has also taken a number of steps that indirectly encourage the
adoption of family planning practices. It has, for example, made great
strides in the last decade in providing primary education to females; and an
increasing share of females are now attending secondary schools and
universities. The participation rate of females in the labor force has also
risen dramatically in the last ten years. The MOR, however, has not provided
adequate birth spacing services, which stemmed largely from its inability, in
a sensitive local environment, to formulate a coherent program of birth
sEacing services. To remedy this situation, the MOH plans to improve its
provision of birth spacing services as part of its efforts to strengthen MCH
care. Toward this objective, the MOH is preparing a guide for its staff on
the provision of birth spacing services and plans to carry out regular
upgrading courses for its staff on MCH care, including birth spacing. MOE
personnel will also participate in training courses on birth spacing offered
by agencies such as WHO and the International Planned Parenthood Federation.



- 12 -
The Bank Role in the Sector
41.      The Bank in recent years has helped the Government improve access to
basic social services and has financed a series of projects in education,
urban development, and water supply. In addition, the Bank is financing three
activities that directly relate to the health sector. The Fourth Education
Project (Loan No. 2068) is financing the construction in Irbid of a training
institute for nurses, midwives, and health technicians; another such institute
at Zarqa would be included under the proposed FY86 Manpower Development
Project.  The First Urban Development Project (Loan No. 1893) financed the
construction of two health centers, which the MOH is operating successfully.
The Bank is also financing a research project that is examining the impact of
this urban project on the health of people in the affected community.  The             a
proposed project would be the first World Bank lending operation in Jordan to
focus on the population, health, and nutrition sectors.
42.      Bank Strategy.  Based on discussions with the Government on the
Health Sector Review (para. 31), the Bank's overall strategy in the sector is
to assist the Government to expand the coverage, quality, and efficiency of
primary health care and referral care in the basic specialties, with a special
emphasis on maternal and child health. This will be done by strengthening PHC
services, developing health sector personnel, expanding health education,
improving sector management, and adding required physical infrastructure. The
proposed project was designed by the Government to address the main issues
identified in the sector report and would help the MOR implement its new
service delivery program for primary health care and basic referral care
(paras. 35-40). The project is also in line with the Government's desire to
expand the access of its poorer people to social services, and, with its
emphasis on improving PHC, would be the most efficient way to improve the
health status of the Jordanian people as well as begin to improve the
efficiency of the entire system. In addition to health projects, the Bank
would also continue its assistance to the sector through projects in
education, water supply and sewerage and urban development, all of which have
important effects on health.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
43.      The project was identified in January 1984 in the context of
discussions of the sector report with the Government. It was preappraised in
June 1984 and appraised in November 1984. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. during March 27-29, 1985. The Jordanian delegation was
headed by H.E. Dr. Kamel Al-Ajlouni, Minister of Health, and included
Mr. Nabil Sweis of the Ministry of Planning. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 5441-JO), dated April 11, 1985, is being distributed separately. The
main features of the proposed loan and project are outlined in the Loan and
Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the project area is attached.



- 13 -
Project Obiectives
44.      The project would support the Government's efforts to reorganize
primary health care and referral care in the basic specialties by expanding
coverage and improving quality and efficiency. The project is the first phase
of the Government's program to implement a new service delivery model that
will be expanded throughout Jordan. Its main goal would be to reduce
morbidity and mortality in Jordan that result from preventable causes, with a
special focus on the health problems of mothers and children. Specifically,
the Government's targets over the life of the project are: (a) to increase
the share of pregnant women who receive pre-natal care from the MOH from 20 to
40 percent of all pregnancies; (b) to increase the share of deliveries
attended by MOH staff from 30 to 40 percent of total deliveries; (c) to
increase the share of couples who get contraceptive services from the MOH from
1 to 6 percent of all eligible couples; and (d) to increase the share of
children under six who get MOH well-baby care from 15 to 30 percent. Assuming
no increase by other providers, the overall percentages for the system as a
whole would increase respectively to 80 percent, 70 percent, 31 percent and 65
percent. The project is expected to reach over a third of Jordan's
population, including a large number of rural and urban poor, almost two
fifths of whom would be women of childbearing age and young children.
Project Description
45.      The project includes the following major components: (i) expanding and
improving health care services:  construction and equipping of 25 new and
refurbishing of nine existing primary health care (PHC) centers, construction
and equipping of 13 new comprehensive health care (CHC) centers, and
refurbishing of four existing PHC centers to turn them into CHC centers;
(ii) developing health sector personnel: the training of around 800 staff who
will work in project PHC and CHC centers; (iii) expanding health, population
and nutrition education: audio-visual equipment, materials and vehicles; and
(iv) strengthening health sector planning and management: funds for
evaluations of the project, research, preparation of future projects, and
project management.
46.      Expanding and improving health care services. The new MOH service
delivery model would be implemented in the facilities to be established under
the component. The new PHC centers would be staffed with two physicians (one
to work in the center and one through related village clinics), a midwife for
maternal and child health (MCH) services, a dentist and an elementary
laboratory. Thus, PHC centers would be able to offer pre- and post-natal
care, child spacing information and services, well-baby care, immunization,
treatment of chronic and communicable diseases, basic curative and laboratory
services, dental care and health and nutrition education. The CHC centers
would serve and be staffed as PHC centers for immediately adjacent
populations. They would also be referral centers for the PEC centers in the
basic medical specialties and staffed with nurses and full-time specialists in
internal medicine, pediatrics and obstetrics/gynecology. Other specialists,
including general surgeons, would visit as needed. CHC centers would offer
basic emergency services and have a maternity section to handle normal
deliveries. The demand for services and staffing, equipment and facilities
has been based on the present use of services in Jordan and reasonable norms



- 14 -
for service delivery. Locations for the proposed facilities were based on a
review of facilities nationwide and criteria agreed with the Bank. including
the socioeconomic status of the communities, their access to health services
and size of population.
47.      Developing health care personnel.  This component would finance the
share of the MOH training program needed to put the new KOH services into
effect.  It includes:  (i) training locally and abroad for 24 managers of the
CHC centers in health care administration; (ii) local residency programs for
95 specialists in Eamily medicine, 15 specialists in emergency medicine and
25 specialists in internal medicine, pediatrics, and obstetrics/gynecology;
(iii) local training of 60 nurses' trainers, 40 registered nurses,
90 midwives, 195 assistant nurses, and 235 medical technicians; (iv) funds for
40 MOH staff to participate in international short-term training programs
related to PHC; and (v) funds for local workshops for physicians and
auxiliaries and for training staff of the new facilities. The Government has
-agreed to submit to the Bank by July 31 of each year during the project the
training program proposed for the following calendar year (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02(a)).
48.      Expanding health, population and nutrition education.  The project
would also finance equipment, audio-visual materials and vehicles for health
education outreach and supervision of health education activities. This would
complement the USAID health education project and allow the Government to
expand health education to the community level.
49.      Strengthening health sector planning and management.  This component
would cover the costs of equipping and furnishing the Project Management Unit
(para. 53). It would also cover consultant services and costs to support
mid-term and final evaluations of the project and research related to key
sector topics and to help the MOR develop future projects. The Bank and the
Government have already agreed on a five-year research plan, which would
include the following topics: health manpower problems, cost of health
services, efficiency of public and private services, nutritional issues, and
maternal and child morbidity and mortality. Each year during the project the
Government would review with the Bank by September 30 the proposals for
project-related research to be carried out during the following year (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02(b)). Terms of reference and qualifications for
specialists recruited under the project would be reviewed by the Bank.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
50.      The total cost of the proposed project, including physical and price
contingencies (in March 1985 prices) is about $30.5 million, of which
$15.0 million (49 percent) is in foreign exchange. Cost estimates do not
include import duties and taxes, from which the project is exempt. Unit costs
of civil works and lists of goods are based on similar work and goods carried
out and procured recently. The cost of local training takes account of recent
experiences in Jordan, and the cost of overseas training, of recent
fellowships awarded by bilateral agencies. The project cost includes physical
contingencies of 10 percent for civil works, furniture, equipment and
vehicles. The price contingencies on civil works, materials and equipment for
foreign components have been estimated at 5 percent for 1985, 7.5 percent for



- 15 -
1986, 8 percent for 1987-90, and 5 percent for 1991-92. Price contingencies
for local cost components have been estimated at 5 percent for 1985,
7.5 percent for 1986, 8 percent for 1987-90, and 5 percent for 1991-92. The
overall allowance for price escalation is about 33 percent of base costs plus
physical contingencies.
51.      The proposed Bank loan of $13.5 million would cover 44 percent of the
total financing requirements and would be used to finance the foreign exchange
costs of civil works (including architectural fees), equipment, furniture and
vehicles. The balance would be financed by the Government, including foreign
exchange costs of overseas training, for which the Government has access to
bilateral fellowship funds. The 3ank loan would be made to the Government for
15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
52.      Project recurrent costs and unit costs.  At full operation in 1992,
project-assisted programs would add only about $2.8 million per year to the
annual recurrent budget of the MOH, or about 5 percent of the 1985 recurrent
MOH budget and about 0.3 percent of the 1985 national recurrent budget. The
new model could be extended to the .ntire country with only a 1.3 percent per
year increase in the recurrent budget of MOH between 1985 and 2000 and would
be an affordable basis for providing primary and referral care in the future.
The unit costs of services, including pharmaceuticals, to be provided by the
new model would be about $5.50 and $5.00 per outpatient visit at a PHC center
and a CHC center, respectively. This compares to per visit charges in the
private sector of $7.50 by a general practitioner and $15.00 by a specialist
for an office visit only. The unit cost is about the same or slightly less
than a visit to MOH facilities under the existing modes, although services
under the new model should be of a higher quality.
Project Execution
53.      The MOH has established a Project Management Unit (PMU), which would
continue to be satisfactorily staffed (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). The
PMU would coordinate the execution of project-financed activities that will be
carried out by regular line units of the MOH. The Ministry of Public Works is
responsible for architectural design and supervision and would recruit private
consultant architects in accordance with Bank guidelines to assist it in these
activities. In addition, a Project Advisory Committee (headed by the MOH
undersecretary and composed of all department heads) has been established to
advise the PMU on issues that may arise. The MOH Department of Primary Health
Care would be responsible for implementing the new service delivery model and
the expanded program for health, population and nutrition education. To
facilitate project execution, a handbook for project management has been
written establishing precise guidelines for all staff involved in the project
and timetables for project activities. Final designs for the project have
been completed, and the MOH has identified all of the 38 sites for the new
centers and has acquired 26 of them, which is more than sufficient to begin
the first phase of the project. All sites would be acquired by July 31, 1986
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). The Bank has reviewed the lists of equipment,
vehicles and furniture as well as project-financed training programs. The



- 16 -
MOH is also preparing draft manuals for its staff on specific responsibilities
for supervision, general MCH services, maternity services, and birth spacing
services and a plan for an improved referral system. The Bank has reviewed
much of the information to be contained in the manuals and they should be
completed by the end of 1985. The Government has already begun to implement
key activities related to the project, including offering MCH services in all
health centers, having physicians live in the communities in which they will
serve, and putting in place a new management information system. The project
is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
54.      Accounts and Audit.  The PMU is establishing accounts for the project
in accordance with internationally accepted accounting procedures. Project
accounts would be audited by the Auditor General's office, which is
satisfactory. The Government has agreed that the audits would be conducted
annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied in a form satisfactory to the Bank and that the accounts and audit
would be submitted to the-Bank for review within six months of the close of
the Government's fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01).
55.      Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation.  The PMU would monitor the
day-to-day implementation of the project and would submit progress reports to
the Bank every four months. The PMU would also coordinate efforts to carry
out mid-term and final evaluations of the project (Loan Agreement, Section
4.02). The Directorate of Planning, Training and Research of the MOH would
monitor the impact of the project and in particular examine the extent to
which it reaches the targets noted in para. 44. The MOH, in conjunction with
the two universities in Jordan, would also carry out studies on the impact of
the project and of specific program improvements related to the project.
56.      Procurements and Disbursements.  Procurement arrangements are
summarized below:
Project Element               ICB         LCB       Other        Total
- ----$ Million--
Civil Works                     12.31        0.20                   12.51
(5.64)     (0.09)                  (5.73)
Furniture                        1.80        0.25                    2.05
(1.24)     (0.15)                  (1.39)
Equipment                        4.91        0.32                    5.23
(4.44)     (0.26)                  (4.70)
Vehicles                         1.87          -                     1.87
(1.68)                             (1.68)
Overseas Fellowships               --          -       0.68          0.68
(0.0)        (0.0)
Local Training and                 --          -        7.75         7.75
Other Expenses                                       (0-0)        (0.0)
Consultant Services                --                  0.47          0.47
-      (0.0)         (0.0)
TOTAL                           20.99        0.77       8.90        30.56
(13.00)     (0.50)    (0.0)        (13.50)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be
financed by the Bank.



- 17 -
57.      Civil works contracts for new construction, with an estimated value
of $12.3 million, would be subject to international competitive bidding
(ICB). The remaining civil works contracts, with an estimated aggregate value
of $200,000, with no single contract expected to cost over $50,000, are for
simple remodeling. They would be awarded by MOH in accordance with local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, which the Bank has reviewed and found
satisfactory. The MOH would group furniture, equipment, and vehicles to the
extent possible in large contracts for bulk procurement and award contracts
for packages exceeding $100,000 equivalent on the basis of ICB; contracts
below this amount up to an aggregate amount of $800,000 would be awarded on
the basis of LCB. For material and equipment to be procured under ICB, a
domestic preference of 15 percent or the import duty, whichever is lower,
would be used for the purpose of bid evaluation. Documents and awards for
construction contracts greater than $250,000 and contracts for goods greater
than $150,000 (which would constitute 75 percent of the total estimated value
of goods and civil works) would be awarded under ICB and subject to prior
review by the Bank.
58.      The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of approximately
seven years as follows: civil works, 100 percent of foreign and 46 percent of
local expenditures; furniture, 100 percent of foreign and 60 percent of local
expenditures; equipment and vehicles, 100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of
local expenditures. The estimated disbursement schedule in the Loan and
Project Sunmary is somewhat shorter than the standard disbursement profile for
health projects and reflects the advanced state of project preparation,
Jordan's satisfactory record in project execution and the fact that the loan
would only finance activities scheduled for the first four years of the
project. In order to expedite disbursements, a revolving fund of $0.5 million
(equivalent to an average of about three months disbursements) would be opened
by the Government and would be replenished on the basis of standard
documentation for eligible reimbursable expenditures. Contracts below $10,000
equivalent may be claimed under statements of expenditures (Loan Agreement,
Section 2.02(b), Schedule 5). The loan closing date would be December 31,
1992.
Project Benefits and Risks
59.      The main benefit of the project would be a reduction in mortality and
morbidity, particularly of people in lower socioeconomic groups and of women
of childbearing age, infants, and children. This reduction should come about
as the public health system expands the coverage and improves the quality of
primary care, including birth spacing services, maternity care, and referral
care in the basic specialties. It is expected that the project would lead to
increases in the number of pregnant women receiving pre-natal care, in the
share of deliveries attended by a health care professional, in the
contraceptive prevalence rate, and in the number of children under six
receiving well-baby care. The project would also improve the efficiency of
the public health system by providing better quality services at the same or
lower unit costs. Finally, MOH is using the project as a basis for developing
and implementing comprehensive health planning norms for the first time, which
will considerably improve the delivery of health services in Jordan.



- 18 -
60.      The main risks of the project are that: (i) demand for services may
be less than planned; (ii) people may continue to bypass lower levels of the
system; and (iii) health personnel may continue to take a passive approach to
health care and not focus sufficiently on outreach, preventive care, and MCH
care. The demand for services is always difficult to predict, particularly
when there are numerous providers. The risks of overestimating demand have
been limited by concentrating services on areas most dependent on the KOH,
setting clear and efficient norms for staffing, equipping and designing
facilities, and making estimates on the basis of best available data on
present patterns of use. A new referral system will be put in place; coupled
with improvements in the quality of PHC, it should limit the risk that people
will not seek care at lower levels of the system.  It will, of course, take
time to change the orientations of the public health system. However, the
comprehensive approach of the project, the involvement of MOH staff and
communities in the project, and the large amount of project-related training
should all encourage change in the right direction.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
separately.
62.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
63.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 12, 1985



- 19 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
joRDA                   - SOCTa imnaLM   ahrA inun __
su cx  QOnmZCmii anauJ)l
IIDIT               tlT  MUC   T nonAT) /b
~~~,.e~~~   IulDU 1113i                                 HIlDIAI tS
mal       tweL        =nTDW,   or. tnCa   N*  tO            IAT.   tEC S CAl
AA (SoiSm  a. u)
TOraL                                97.7         97.7         97.7
ACRICULTItAL                         12.0         19.0         14.3
-  EPR CPITA (0415)                        -        30.O/c    190.0 le             11".9                   2106.9
-      01 wmurn a cor
(KILOGAS OF OIL EQUIVALErT)         121.0        ZL2.0        70.0              922.L                    995.3
rormaTIn  Am VnL gn eec
POPULATION.NID-v" (THOUSANDS)    1"S.0          2299.0       3127.0
UtUA  POPULATION (Z eO  TOrAL)       42.7         30.3          9.9              41.2                    66.3
nvunArup mmoazcTIONS
POPULATION IN  EAR 2000 (HILL)               *.2
STATtONARE POPULATION (HILL)                                 16.2
POPULATION   MNi                                              2.0
ProutArtoll DzEWstTY
PEE SQ. M.                          17.3        23.5         30.9               39.3                    35.7
PER SQ. K. AGRI. LAND              141.4       199.2        203.9             461.7                     92.9
POPULATION AGE SRUCTIRE CE)
0-14 US                             4.4        45.8         46.1              43.9                     39.9
L5-6 I  S                          31.5         51.0        SL.S               53.1                    39.0
bS AND ABO                           4.1          3.1         2.9               3.3                      4.1
POPULArION GRUOTH RATE CE)
rOTAL                                3.1         3.0         2.9                2.0                      2.4
URBAN                                5.2         4.7         4.0                9.5                      3.6
GLUM BIRTH RATE (PER THmOS)           47.4        47.9         44.3               40.4                    31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE CPE  TNOV5          19.9          15.1         3.1               11.5                    3.1
CROSS REPRDUCTCrOI RATE                3.5         3.5          1.2                2.8                     2.0
FAMILY. PLAIINING
CCErrOS. ANmwAL (TNOUS)
USERS (2 OF MAIED S     )            ..         22.0 Id      ZS.0 1.           22.2                     60.3
INDEX lit FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
C1969-71-LD0)                       220.0         79.0         70.0              97.2                   I4.3
PER CAPITA SOWrT OF
CALORIES (2 OF RESQUIRETS)         93.0          93.0       102.0              '10.                    110.6
PROTEINS (GRAM  PR OAT)            61.0         55.0        94.0               70.1                    67.3
UF WHICH ANIMAL AND  aLcSE        15.0         15.0        19.0 if            17.8                    34.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          26.3         12.5          6.0               14.6                     3.7
SALTE
LIFE EXPECT. Ar UTH (TEARS)          4.9          34.1         b4.0              57.3                     64.7
=W.IT PRT. RATE (PER T3OUS)         135.5         97.5        94.6              101.5                    b0.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WM   (EPM?)
TOTAL                              21.3           *-        .0.0 lc            59.7                     65.4
URBAN                              4a.6           *-           *-               9.3                     78.1
RURAL                               2.1           ..           ..              38.4                     46.2
ACCESS TO EeRETA DISPOSAL
(: OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-           *-         78.0 IC             ..                     52.9
UaBN                                                                                                   97.0
RURAL                                             ..           ..                ..                    24.5
POPULATION PER PNTSICIAN           5600.0       3760.0      1700.0             4395.1                  1917.7
POP. PER NIURSING PERSON           1930.0Oj     180.0       1llW.0             1831.1                   315.8
POP. PER HOSPIrAL BED
rOTAL                             390.0       1350.0       1060.0 lb          932.9                   397.2
UA                                   ..       1120.0         80.o 7F          345.5                    411.5
RURAL                                         540.O           ..              2513.5                  2936.3
ADOISStONS PER NOSFITAL  EO            ..         36.5         4.7 f             2b.2                     27.3
-IsmH
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOrAL                                5.3          6.1         4.7  -c1
URBA                                5.5           ..
RURAL                                5.1           .
AVERAE NO. OF PERSONSIROS7
TOTAL                                 ..           -.          . /c.1 i
URBaN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 * **
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF ODCLLIGS)
TOTAL                               17.0                       - .0 IC 1        4.2
tURA                                39.2           ..        90.0 7e T          77.7
RURAL                                1.4                     30.0 IC-t          16.1
1/   The data  in  this annex  and in  the text are not comparable.   Data  in  the annex
(unless noted by  footnote c/)  are for  all of Jordan; data  in  the  text for  the
East Bank only.   Data in  the text are also based upon more recent  information.



-20-                                         ANNEXi 
Page T2of 6
mmnu_
gm !X,LD ,,,,h,, RIn
ItlM  PZ    a07 NE  "a                                          A. AN*I As CAR
MM= 
1113aM!   T7*L                     77.0         72.0       102.0               66.23                  10.4
k1L3                    34.0         79.0       105.0              102.                    104.3
1WOIL                   53.0         45.0       100.0               73.4                   104.5
SscoIC aaa TOTAL                   25.0         33.0         7.o               4                       43.2                     -
Nei                     24.0         41.0        73.0               52.2                    42.3
136*1.                  12.0         24.0        74.0               33 2.0                  44.5
YOCAXoI*L CSair SICUIAI)              2.7          3.0         6.1j              10.3                    33.4
KVwzL*ZKACI RATIO
1311MM!                            34.0         39.0        31Oj                0.3                    30.1
630011MM!                ~~~~ ~~20.0   23.0        2102.11.
A30!T LITIMAC!I &M! CZ)              32.4           ..        70.0               42.2                    79.5
VAIUIIUX C*ANflUDUUMD  Po             3.7          4.1        20.7               17.6                    4G.0
MaDio R=IC3VIII0UDAMN  101           37.8        160.9       162.4              126.4                   223.4
TV INCRIVIRSITN005AN  PM               .          20.0        36.5               44.1                   L07-4
3636*13  (.0521. 0in*.
INhTZSRK) CZXOUAS?IO
PER r3005*A1 IOIM&TXOU             18.3         24.4        31.3               3 12                    63.3
cIum  Amun*j  tiu4.eJC                3.2          0.9         5.2                1.72                    2.6
usaunLsx
TOTAL LAIOg 10103 CTUOU)            452.0        569.0       736.0
131*1.3 (113dM)                     5.0          5.4         4.4               LO.4                    23.2
ZCULTOII   (CIS                   44.0         34.0        20.0               42.4                    31.5
WLurr (y   un t=)                  24.0          9.0        20.0               27.9                    7s.9
P*ITXCPATION RATS (132137
TOAL.                              is.5         24.7        24.1               2162                    32.2
NAMK                               44.7         45.5        43.5               44.4                    493
1300.3                              2.7          2.6         3.3                5.6                    13.2
icOMUMI 0313C!M 3A120                 1.9          2.0         2.0                1.6                     1.4
-D        -w     uszao                                          h3^                 - 
l  ~maT 01114!!zuu
uzwua irso*.                                                   .                1.2.
32035?510  USZEU                  *..           .           00U*3
320135  2010 or   inui               ..
1.5133 201K o   uman.a7
LOUTS? 48o 0  su0Um
Pol=        asm                                   a.7 iucmS
,,im                                                       230.0              2745                    26 2
333*!.Eg   _O                       l..          2.0      2100.0              177.2                   164.0
RTnATD RUT         M
UV. (us  Ml. CAUM..)
OEM*                                 M..                    060/              403.                    522n.4
an".                                 ..           ..       1.3.0              25.                     372.4
:smauuM so. St=aSoh
iOVE3Tt I383  LXII CZ)
uIS21                                ..           ..        14.0                 ..
3am"*.                               ..           ..        17.0
NuG &VAZLSE.
Mr A1PFLCASLX
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~03
la  mme group awaaas  for emab Iistiate  ame Ps"1ttse-Slot.d eaft-it1e sam.. Ceveae of cona-t aww.              the
lud.eat.us dapsada - svsllebJ.1z of data lana Ist alto..
lb UWAs.. athsrvme ntiAd. Mato for 1960 Ttler to Liw yew, betwea 193 sand ML4; -Ost for 1970r bet"an 1969 sd
1171; a.d data f. 'Not beset OBd te  betuse 1960 7Ar 1163.
la   East Bank; Id 1972  l 19376:it ~1177; kL"M; lb 1178; /1  S97-.
Jana. 1164



-21-                                                                            AM=f I
SSFil1iUU  9 I0EI  23113059Page   3 Of   6
a.mf. 41anlui. It .. isu di.a 0- . MeRMS. j...trSLI j4 It. ml ..wt.qme" besald mitelat.. Is .Ideld St." n t ins to clo Mr "a be IU..tsa.S2
a--Sa"I ""-`.   F Obb ISo .t .a3054d.412iL.is-   ..sa-dp.. sadi 5 46115-053  Cabbealab Is ssilit'4  iI. 4.. Wt. 4.54                                 ow. "stI  C
daselift. "Ala4t.5.   ewag-de. 15i5.ast  madb. .3w0 .m.ru.sivaS. .91.3  dmIs, 431P.rde    advabs. somonge.
omb .at....m" q.ta      Sii lo.   .s~aps1 in aON            ssi  maSud. .30  Bflank -spy  -u 1 sa"L IMb5t.f .ms.   m   *aS   Cl?  I   5
..j.s.mss.p- P.M.. LidafflU'  %..s  515  -s.I*s .1305 CIS d5eail I solamoh Iladm S- 514. .it.64 d*                   5   S1 *ia -#W *31adU*1"WIN
mu1.   ..11.21" '.d. ad -S ibbllaaml  i*  -ls.i.  ITs. .-5m% Ai. May -kgl S. Redyol15 St. 5.52..C.1  -  3301.Saw.p .0 310  .mS.   maSe,1 ago
t.~~~~..30 ...t..i  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ISNLI.U L._"                         I       PinSi   a151430 lyr ablt.. 5  .,1t415.
ft& tml - lelab. ... . d.*I.uuis~       beb top.~.. -ILad    S.a Mil.SoA              p2Soi~ lade.hi3  a -          "W"is "alm"  "O"'....idwe  oba.51.   A
-1p.P--~. mm. -d b9sbbt. gsIibm         p1-   It. fsi11i 5ago.                    taE        ladla'.
i'mO ad 'WI2 do*..~-i..   .n-a   s    * 'manSp-so    ca5.5.
U1.S*diag  a0 .MS.S.    t.   3
Soe  desisn   -%Sad -  ma1d Ca AtLed (Sim41 5152                          p#MSS0nm.               'minds1  me  Bmi.blim  pimoly  "-ft"
Sloo. 915. bealiS I.e..ma                                                               bp Sm toa dei     =Sw5SI,  ttm Sa.   =            41 dls   ..mp.S  5303.I
.."Esir            Sb-..  .p.s   -inp.s   P_              LL                    -&&ft& .I.I      d ftisit anw ShiCam . mI   nm ora m.
- SIM. Mlafteog.damaral9- -d bd-. Sbea.isaaaal -n"ft.4.0. ~#'L   .I wedwadirS- la-pmiad                                     ad
SSI em.5ltbbbeI .31SdA.ItVyJ L* U4.9-   .9.1 LjA -   -3-  P.. aad.*a to"                  MSd.pi&   1S &.I  -W .0 bedgdl Cdll4.d..
Sf7M. .sd 1301 dsIS.                                                                   1"     E    RO1             - Tn91   -a  .3 .4.aaS    ftm  igdmlsa
M as    ft le  kt  C.~  .1 ha..
*  "5          i          - - atMde   Ia, sue. 19,0. .3d ClaimWI
aiIi.    de 51.".. I- .Im   .. - ,  3.. be    ksbte. 14.bL64F .1 d..                    Me Iowa. mse  30.1. a W""t. bewe 3306. C  atp bb -5     imsCa S
-.L-.a  mU. SilO. aed 5301 dna.                                                    as.     I3Ps   SSS           S maCi.
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ae
"It!"F'.4mg3"1in11od - en-   M a..m    .js                .      a       i                T-..                    i1Cn .s                      .m3
~ PM _        aw"W-  -. -   Sa., -p.1SSV `-  I-St US.                           Chn.*a mS.    AIm.  salad                       i -A.A.add
ROSS.  Wisq arobobne1 155 ml..idI, nabbo             3.  ......                                 loall**
5.51. --am' lil. .pmSsy. o'55 Iaa- adi  .5.5  .  ITSa. P..                                        S-I. ISg,n5SICSCI-*..   stU                      disS 
slags L-   Ia-S. MS minisl a"1. Sesestbo  obald 53.530    11. F                                                      M    .LIAm.4*1ssdSS  15.1u  4095  ..  0w
p-ns.  U.  inS5   1- t.rSStLS,  -~5  .ad me-5 552pm L-A.3                            51  bd. al.. Me Cl                      - &Sm   i - IT.i.
di'4a-AS- is15.5 4SILSpY osebald3hq S. 1mwL.- -dS .0- ma l,
PS-S. p1I.in30. cela SabSp"I5 515 .. tlbajt at Ca ISa .
iMSSI  .1 a.I91SS  adl fttS2lap cia-d .    IS. .JaSm1                            00inft30
q4.5...   MR,n a          MSI 9- S.04.11I3 "- ad a-.us 9. SISS     2                            OmblSSS..i90                 E  Cnee i.Ss. aSS. See PiS.
NSa- -   s            a    * t    -.pSid .aidl   .a.S.   fSaIi1t.,                     .ai            l  .. ben    m   b.s  -...aam. 30m                   l.
Ca aamL.m.1, ISSI-  a aabrSob.So  155. (_                                    metader *CaSW"-    pap liag-  abandLipliSaaA s  WIp  5
L::I..   m..S.1. t- - . ..s.a.       . .6. 51p52 paL. -sn               s..;Lr              Ih- "31 d t-P dSaf.    1-9et. .9  ".b-P      a : ..&-edf
Me0 .30.1  o.   d.aSi "al.. it. qp  .adsabebb. i.,.. dea..as. ad                        doeb.aribe"l '"bodda..a.....tS  e.m   ..allde  dr iCabo  .0 g..a-d
d*-db  U.a  -s..9  l. acaSln. M-aia  *55              a.Sa   - Shi                      *S                   Ab a. .   SI- - .t.-  ft . sIPStS     .-k C.
labl. :#,C Sb ..Is.Sd Ct. .PSS3   aC Ab pap"a.SS  S. Ift i-P                          t.C,   in                          =f.2aS it. - Gagmmo Se olmoba  yded
-10.i    - me   d- a11- ;C-.9Lgl --,a~ .. CI.i-- lea1.                                                                   Stsl ya     L Sn   ..       oRbsaSdpts   pm.S
Is9S,. _   maas - Ia St. I..dScT Isp pMM=t.  PinS  55, dos5.l                           ~.5     obin~l. ts*5al5. -  StA.. Shni30 tommotme  S
%.1-I IftAs Sh   - inSdw-ha.Sdt-i...sL  . VtSLS  hi- Re-L in-Sag0 to-5                  P.p... efteSa, .1 %5 i. 1aV". SC WAInC                   a. 
g..  - 1,  ft in in riad4.tS- tinS %_. f..d .319.. VW..nu   5Sotd.
a-pa.1 . pA-1-5 Ia  h.  L..  L. ina..iadIS  n.Se . S b.                          inlSitp    *s..Sina  P .ssSt i..  -  =Spm     SmI30st
.sstsa. .....,a.ais.......t.i   d   ..j   s.                                           .i.s..as.ai.,.si-n   .,na~p .
Eb  .~ &M.Sh slog       235 Pin...  -mSlb....-obal ft.. I-      . j                    It.aS,            Capi.. .1 asC..  im5
Z ai.  It a.-..                                                                     im.an   Si   510             - .P         - T4.fl.a.a.550i
va-.-Sl. ib-.A,S                                                                          Mtbb        o n. wa aPan   5     dsd   If  a.o at ..CbP3 Z. sb.
111 -4  -. -  4--p. -i     p      -wd.l    --..  hi-n-.. 5530 in-t..) .-               I.nadl    a-.A
ia-iA      I-4 A. I.    -Pill, s, 54 dSt.-a.pipr                                                        ir-t   Us.-..  d155C.(.baet -.  1 3-a -sPis-
=&ps 1I"0.  39111 ..a   tin3 l.a..                                                     g
'm-I.53a  utIpaSsia (*i.)  W                                                               umlf  1.5  iPs.    5ilds,II
p....Sp   its. iPlO.a...-i"l4.1..MICi    Cain. 
iM-.3.1-    .1.5 ft,      L.I   -mc  9mwl ...    s.t55.a.                                 =s1559d CS.S     L.     0n     o        pdi*    .gmsdeb.
cb.at   .      (Ea.   .--L * lit-IiL.    p-9 IS---"                                   9511=,tA-..  I."-  stai           S.       -F US 15ga n.         sa    .
p.  'mt.s~~~ 1430.                      M,        Ca 10 dS.                          5      simiSaSI
ppml.St..a 1444. Pill, ad 1302 dnc.                               g.m..  CS    P- S-toamb PWIaSSl  Stimassm obLabaow 19  Cadid..
ft-b.0p.s.PS   Lhba - M....I... C al ds.s S.p    -m   -U*   - . Lsi.                               abd W IS N' obabb          S- -9 TV     . be S. "Fatt..
-.3am   ..p`iP.__ p.133  &C Obt . ICl           aw-bSt Sip.-pmaile.                     m     C9I3-(            S      inal.-C              n    .
l.SUISp  ma: lSUr C9--,S   a-Pm- -a, 55 300. 1915* Me                                   L.SIdeal...dwdaaI,e.L50.                  ,pl    ld-~Il
inS.                                                        inbi.A30~~~~~~al 4.30593 ..&Ct3...~~~~A   ..m130inm SIMI.  is S. mS*530
PpmI.  ICSa.   ad.9.... .-I tsimmI -misS  C 30 asmt...              . 51 d301prl U UeSt   iest a  ladS low SagIC . mae
V Bp.sCdim                     aipp  3  55..  il_pCa                                   Plnl.P0s0a1.1s0s?. A30-b;  at. C.  .f
*to-.1losev-5Smbov  S-                                                                                                                     . daSa-.3. p      Sit
isfyPesi.-i.t   .i.f   0 fl.   I.    f- Vn .I     - inila                                init   AR35.
SC 3eatt.s-                -e.scn   iehil 
I    a ,f 115.  a .ii.   5.12                a       N-.9 tss
-bead.t-  -ene. p -   -....iI  pm-    d  51-0 .i55       I~~  &,-M_                                                          S?  ml.. _-_     .  S310s
I...AatSs.3 .31 qw. fIt.tSIc I. -i.6Z daeare C p
tim ad  WISTIC                                                        l.bI.3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMs  910 def RINI dame.
to.3  Fdpdap. L- 1a.2p. Mi5-ilP  -Td.               . pailC.M                                        %JS-`~L   hadft5 sp . -lbaA61SmS t gs.   3s95sn
...Le..-.paa  _11tAa...   3..   Ma- ss10 p   (.a.d-,-                                               . - .aSt    la- 2 I_.3.g  Ista. tom  Sais ad e
*..d  -  S      -I..)t pSap t -5*   "Ltla.   ~SenSP   -sti-. C.. J*.             L55.5 4             Lel-C   f- 5151.. U... SW .    1915adamlintC        l
5.55a    . -  ..tdd.      lW        -pdd.di. .1  -l   -.pm     L.                 *a-tt..-.l.   -        4. g.. ...a...s. W  .aaS9 SeI  .n     o3i0  1
5a30     paSsa  a--me Wbe.. -      .t-  .on .    1491.S. 393. ad  192                  ad& 130 4.5
A-Ist.        PP.    PbbFf-                         -f.                              flawt1pm3   SaC king    i - "oses MS1 moad  P511  - FsSswigan
= .51.pmd. t 5j.   .3.   i  .S..t).                          s   pm lefMl     %..w*i-PSr                         55 a 3.5.ms   dICstnP9
*                       ..p5' pm~~~~~~bel-ed .  "Si  - pm M.0.psi. a.2ta. s pis  InR 9   CII  p.                  .PW       1  551      . in   1    92 1pm3          Sal3*1 30   p.a*nM
4e.3.131 -&M . -se-i.9  -CaSil ppa.sss   dst                                       Cb.  s   91.l .5 ;;1:M-. CARL-       Ca-54pd.icssdm
*s dafM. ad  -Cp.hi SI.8   5.. s.ppl. .aI-lsi* ato -Stl la    a5l.a31  3   5.s  1s5450S                                      i.    d1mI-iS
pm...-s.ta.59 aO130- py..3- .AS   n            - b Ie pnt                                         _mtS. .         M -aln    .  II  d 4 allm-a is
p-aa.3   lat 141-.  -9,  -  itsd_t_
a 1115 SW alt   Cf.Ce P115           53r  pItt Z    ISP sad n SsLSMR
5*3.w..... at 30ge.% AS 1   .~s5I d-Sol    .p ad-0 p.  lb- .  a
sS5a. -Sm  1525  mg.- SC Ps d-  SC ceA Maldsi. ad 21 slabo                    !islS-t5UClinC .n  *7 4551135959maPs  SC 0-abe  L-M01. Oad
-0snSAP-.Isa    a ..-W   -  -5. -9- paId      pms0   9145  t.                      mlb-d 5. 14S1.5.ASoad .1.1b    I4.C55t  mIas-.
,ml1a im-id ft.3 SCSi:. I9529. 1970 ad ImI dS.-                                      mulaSsg..1..P..   ....1.!(90i,Cate 
-t 151..sf515 ...3.1..  _tt_a  -   -L-. - ft-1.5  ..spU  30 fs.                    455.5..I             a1513. th   MaaERP26isS- asi*-L
4.nin 1..   S-AI ad   LuM  Is I.-  In  enS ?114-46I. 1970 ad llt?                5lI2 3tS             .411Ps-. babaS.!l bbb..Eall IW         i      dIsad
4.1..                                                            .tia.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~reetsSs,
V35   a    .2htals    .   n..)-~Siat   .   n.dS                                         Gol.(3   5.1-1..  .... F. 5.a.9 SI (130   p    ts-s
. Len  l.ai-fl.t~ 0l35  flI   lpm -RS l C S =     516Iais~s    m    354..1 nall                                            5. Ssi    I   CA.-
-.,. -a d*1a ~9~l  1m Lit. UbaSs.. lmO. 1973  d101d2                                     ...p s  130pm 55 St.  =nt.  Oft.. I..L 5s 4SFLqds ft- Obt ow
czi a. ..0 "-dabe ff.. 51AS d511 Fl 4I1ed; M5 a.%Pa
1W.Pp.. -  sPIt  .0.P      -a.pSPS   .s  at tAt- -oft"3'                                               Pfbdeat,..395  Ca.s-t- ad   ti5p       .15
Usa- n.5. sa.La.ss.   -                   ICa  45.5 SC SI. W. Ca.-
-I  30.9.b  F            La- Sn3e In-. s ..laIs  - 551 -.t.  .11 d ..
MMs C5  I51  ,.-tr.  Il  5                                5   0                                                           ...        ~    a   t50..
30 .WA (IISL    SPs3   sl1   inI  R51-.  51i                                                                              s     &s-a   hIIl   pPi.
-.511.ls*7 SI-S  5230 Ins aRsIsIls bSMbba0.15.1,pi5lad                                                                                  B."I
5515 "L.S)-              SO05.a  ,0 ItI   ts.I5ans  pay".L*1.  Is 
slim   95    *3  1.25 S `-dS        55 tA A Ct      is  IS-  -i.
C1.. Ibb-          oba-bloSb M.     M ai 30".  .ml    s.. 
rm  . .2  niaS   Isa-  -.5  15.10*ttussIa.  i309 -eA
Ine dsp i 1.15*1-19 Sn nI,. ma -sad
.C-r  p.P1.    nC.i. .55.. -lwad-.a.         IIpt-oApatdaS.
Sam CI'mI    bp ATP   Sap-.. *F       -  St.   SC   pta p.1.1. ad        -
5.9a3.. 5C L-5l.



- 22 -
AM I
!WaVf 6
D-N - ru          Am
Ppulacion: 2.6 million (1984)11
QP per cpita.: ust 1,710 (C91) 1/,2/
AMZ                                                Amual GCth  ates
Indizcar              (Millian UE$ at                    Aktld (at 1910 pric.)                           P=4Iatsd (at 1910 Priem)
curret prie.
1983              1977   1978   1979   19W0   198V   1582      1   3/       19      1965    1986    1987
N?TIAL AClUN
Grog dogatirc pro&.t       4,098              12.4   21.5    9.1   10.8    7.4    7.1        5.5         5.0     5.5.   5.0       5.0
Agciculture             273               1.0   25.0  -29.0   39.0   IL6    9.7        12.6          5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Industry              1.134              24.2   27.0   19.2   U.5   13.2    0.3         3.8         10.8    10.7     8.0     7.0
Services              2,223              10.1   18.9   10.2    7.9    4.3    8.9        4.8          2.4     3.0     3.5     3.7
Coiwptio                   4,760              15.3   19.9   17.3  -7.6    6.4    3.8         4.9        -4.3     4.5     5.1     5.0
Gzm. Inwetuom              1,621             28.3    5.6   10.5   17.2   24.2    2.4        -5.7         0.0   -5.6   -7.0   -1.3
bxport. cws                1,760              19.2   10.4   20.4   24.1   24.9    L5       -9.1          3.2    10.1     9.4      7.0
ipoarts of CIS             4,043              21.8    9.7   26.4   -1.7   274   -0.8       -6.2         -7.5     3.0     3.5     4.4
Gro. Natinal Pmdat         4,056              13.1   18.2    7.7    6.8    8.2    7.4        1.8         4.0     5.0     4.2     4.3
GDP Deflator                             67.9   72.8   82.5  100.0  116.5  123.7      129.9
Ediawzge Rate                             3.04   3.26   3.33   33    3.07   2.61        2.76
-Slie of NP at Kci.t Prim. (;                  AvE    Ansl In:
(at cu    p(ace.)
1975   l196    1985                     1978____98__7    198790
Grmos Dostic Paduct                                    96.0   100.8   97.8                       10.3        5.1       4.9
Agricuhszs                                        7.8     6.6     6.3                       10.2       5.0        5.0
Izlstry                                           2L8    26.7    34.5                        14.1       9.1        7.5
vSecs                                             59.7    57.9    57.1                       8.9        3.2        3.3
COOmption                                             123.8   109.8   114.5                       7.4        2.6       4.0
Gros ILszesat                                          26.5   40.8    38.6                        88        -3.5       4.2
Esora of GUS                                           35.5   47.9    58.0                       13.6        7.4        7.0
Inprts of GUS                                          9D.1    97.2  I02.5                        9.7       0.9        4.9
G.s Noticol Pduct                                     1DO.    100.0   100.0                       8.0       4.6        4.3
Net Fartor IWAue                                       4.1   -0.8       2.2                        -         -          -
GrOs Ntorl SaVins                                     -23.8   -9.8   -14.5                         -         -          -
As 2 af GQi
(at carruet pie)
1975       1980       1985
RBJ F.U-
Daoitic Reves                       24.8        22.8      23.4
Gurrent Eqedikures                  37.6       33.9       23.4
Budgetary Svi.s                    -12.8      -10.0        0.0                                                                         b
Capital EVemdituxes                 23.6       22.9       12.7
Foreign Firusciqg                   34.8       27.7       1L8
of whiihx foreign grans           30.0        20.5       7.0
1978-82    198-87
aWER TD     IUS
Iw                                 5.4         5.9
IHgimil Gmss Natiasl
Saving Rate                     -2.8         3.8
Iisport Elaticity (goods)          1.2        0.2
I/ East Bk ooly.
Prelimiay esti;te bas  ax the zevisad  iers of rwtionl accoes to be discussed with tie Gouie  .   ich arcais   aitcrces f    long
car.t aidents abwod chat are comidered capital tnwwf=rs
3J Prelimiar est;-ae.
Em. CPnC
Feb y 1985
O8



- 23 -
Pqe S of 6
J       - CmL  Tu
hemout                                              A l1 Growth Ratem
Irdicaor                (.m11ima U*$ at                        Accual (at 199 prices)                            Pmjcted (at 1980 Wicem)
nuimt pric
1983              1977   1978   i979   L980   1981   19B    1983          19862/      1985    1986    1987
Ma,m1laise aexoe  /I1      441              27.3    6.7   22.5   22.9   31.1    2.1  -4.0            3.6         10.1     9.1     8.5
Priui                   255              13.1    5.5   16.1   26.2   185   -3.2  -8o              5.0         9.7      9.2     8.7
Mgjfaetur              155              73.9    9.1   35.6   17.0   59.0    8.5   -8l            1.8         10.7     9.0     8.3
MeLthliah inpous         3 044              24.2   -X.3   10.5    7.8   27.4   -1.0  -6.2          -7.6           1.5     4.4     4.7
Food                    497             -14.2   25.8    8.9    7i 1   31.6    6.4    6.0        -2.5           2.0     3.2     4.8
V               Petroleun               58              19.1  -13.2   30.3   42.3   19.3   22.0    1.1           6.0          2.0     3.2     4.3
Mhineay a   qapipeit  723                43.5  -3.5  -11.7   13.6   56.6  -13.0  -18.0          -10.4          0.5     0.8     1.
Otlhr                 1,239              39.5  -9.8   27.5   -3.4   19.3    0.5    9.1         -10.1           1.5     2.8     4.7
_RXCES                                                      (1975- 10))                                     (1980- iW)
E4ort prie iodc            -                561    85.8   90.2  10.9  107.5  113.2   90.3         97.5         1i36.1  112.4   124.3
Import price iniec                         112.2  114.8  133.   1511.4  113.6  119.4   94.2        91.6         *.9   105.3   110.9
Tenn of trie ind           -                76.7   74.7   67.6    7 _1   94.6  9%.8   95.9         106.4       1017.3   106.7   112.1
Cpouiticm  of medmliae rrade (2)                      Avenge Alul GumAth Rae
(at SW       rimnt)                              tat contant prices)
i375      1911Z    19B7                             197W         19M867
E2rts /1                                         100.0     100.0    100.0                               11.9           7.8
Prir                                           79.8      46.8      57.8                               8.2           8.2
Hmiteurcs                                      20.2      53.2      42.2                              19.2           7.5
IqaOrta                                          100.0     100.0    10).                                 6.6           0.8
Food                                           22.2       16.7     1S.3                               9.7           1.9
Peewlam                                        10.6      21.0      24.3                              16.8           3.8
M-acimy a-  equipmet                           3L6       28.0      23.7                               3.9          -2.0
Otler                                          35.5      34.3      31.8                               9.0          -0.2
Share of Total Ev rte (2)                     SIre of Total qnorns (2)
D1r1N CF TIIWE                                            1975       19)3                              1975         193
Devloped  _rIit  eo                                       17.6        4.9                              62.6         46.3
Dwleqpirg mrket _aoies                                    70.2       82.0                              29.2         46.5
of whidc Azab countries                                 42.4       63.3                              19.8         48.6
Ctrally p       -_axd ecomies                             12.2       13.1                               8.2          7.3
I/ Exclding reeqxorts                                                                                           Febzuxy 1985
1 Prelinia  estizte.                                                                                            0185S



- 24                                                            3N(1 I
P4a 6 of 6
JUDW - mAJ W KAWIS. WOSUL CAPIrAL AN D
(atLtUne  US  at Curent picies
Zoicator                                                       Actuael                                                        SXted
W17      17Ft  S j.n      inl      19u1      DU        ii3    19843M
MLR  (F PAN s
ExprtrofgOf goDa a mics               123      1437     1819     2491     32U5      3174     3G47      2972        3375     3750      4155     5659
Of wihich. Nerdc di  f.o.b            249      297      402      574       742      749       581      650         779       900    lD90      1513
Worerrz ruiettcasa         470       520    6ff        792     1042      101      1112    1D!2          1191     1286     1389      1748
Iqortr of goods A mericas             1714    2065      2872     3452     4550     4564      4251     3840        4208      4679      5159     6886
Of which: Merchaindie f.o.b.         1376     1497     1957     2393      3237     3229     3041      273D        M03      3303      3633     4835
WoIrker. trittaeer             46       65       o0      154       159      175      201       193         183      175       165      157
Net twunfers  /                        504      347    1046      1335      1321     1055      814       364         350      350       350      350
Carrnt o wunt bhla:e                    -7    -280        -7      374      -26      -335     -390     -504        -483      -579    -654       -877
Priwte dirct inveutt                    11       56       26       31       67        91       24        50         110      llB       127      157
MZ loa  (net)                          190      189      193      232      274       242      219       179         274      540       607      816
Official                               86      112      143      240       283      271       164      148         129      344       396      571
Private                               14        77       50       -8       -9       -29       55       31          145      196       211      245
Other cqital                           -21      278       20    -266    -398        -290        3        -            -        -         -        -
QwKgeo in raerw                       -173    -a3       -232     -371       83       292       136      275          99      -79       -eo      -96
lntenatiaul reserve.                   740      983     1215      56      1503      1211     1075      8O0          701      7dO      860      1148
Of which  Gold                         81       81       82      208       198      194       200      200         200      230        0       20D
Reserves a. nmths of iwForts             5.1      5.6      5.2      5.5      4.5       3.2      3.0       2.5         2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0
ECISA CAPITAL AND DEII
Gros disbunasats                      214      223      250      306      407       374      331      383
Cowessionul loans                    94      119      151      133      126         4      224      274
IC                                 9        6       13        9        3        4         -        -
Other                             85      113      138      124       123      180      224      274
No-coccassioual lo.                120      104       99      173      282       191       97       109
Official e2port CDdits             3        8        2       97       159       94        10       12
mmD                                -        -        4       22       19        1i       33       39
OUer rultilateml                   -        -        7       14        6        3D       15        16
Priumte                          117       96       86       40       98        56       49       42
Eftenal debt
Debt asttadizg ad
disbursel                           623      841     1048     1266      1481     1685     1823      0D2
Official                         469      609      765      993      1226     1464     1212      1445
Private                          154      232      283      273      254      221       550      557
Ikdiabsed debt                      559      85       863     1221      995       831      521      532
Debt service
Total seerice pays                   38       58       96       133      182      193      278       316
Inteest                           15       24       40       58       81        61      1o6      130
Paymets as Z aqmort x                 3.2      4.0      5.3      5.4      5.7       6.1      9.1      9.4
Avewe interest rate
cn mew [oans L0                       6.0      6.3      5.3      6.8      5.3       6.0      7-0       7.0
Auerage mturity
of mw loan  (yeas)                   14.4     18.1     21.4     14.8      17.7     20.1     17.0      12.6
Aerage grae
oE mw loans (years)                   3.5      5.6      4.7      3.8      4.3       5.0      4.1      2.7
As Z of Dent Out.tasti'w
at ecd of Mt Reent Year (1983)
Matrity stxrture of ebt outstasnii
Maturities be with n 5 years                                      39.(
Maturities cie with n 10 years                                    68.'
Inter  strurture of ebt outstandiig
Interest due within first year                                     64i
-  Data not avsilable                                                                                                               own CPlI2C
11 ELports of goods  id services ircludig renittaes.                                                                               Febrary 1985
2/ Excluding unreqit d csfews by lawg tem  residernt woke   arod.                                                                   0185S
3/ Preliminaty esties:e.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN a/
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1984)
--US$ Million--
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number   Year       Borrower        Purpose              Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Fifteen credits      Jordan
fully disbursed                                                  86.1
Two loans fully
disbursed                                              50.0
1781     1979                  Education III            19.0                  7.9
1826     1980                  CVDB                     10.0                  5.3
1893     1980                  Urban Development        21.0                 15.6
1986     1981                  Power IV                 25.0                  7.9
2068     1982                  Education IV             25.0                 21.7
2162     1982                  Power V                  35.0                 27.4
2213     1983                 Water Supply and
Sewerage               17.0                 16.9
2246     1983                  Education V              18.8                 18.7
2334     1983                 Urban Transport           30.0                 30.0
2371     1984                  Energy Devt. I           30.0                 30.0
2378     1984                  Education VI             40.0                 40.0
2425     1984                  Eight Cities
Water Supply
and Sewerage            30.0                 30.0
2463     1985                 Multi-Mode
Transport               30.0                 30.0
TOTAL                                                  380.8 cl  86.1       281.4
of which has been repaid          1.9       2.8
Total now held by Bank/IDA bJ 378.9        83.3
a/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
b/  Includes exchange rate adjustments.
c/  Does not include the Greater Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Loan for
$30.0 million, signed January 31, 1985.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1984)
-US$ Million -
Year          Obligor            Type of Business       Loan    Equity    Total
1974     Jordan Ceramic Ind.
Co. Ltd.             Ceramic Tiles             1.6      0.2        1.8
1975/    Jordan Fertilizer
78/81/82   Ind. Co.            Phosphatic Fertilizer  79.5 1/   8.7          88.2 1/
1979     Jordan Lime and
Silicate              Building Materials        2.5       0.7       3.2
1979     Jordan Securities    Money & Capital                                 0
Corp.                  Market                             0.7       0.7
1980     Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.             Leasing                             0.3       0.3
Total Commitments                              83.6 V1  10.6       94.2 1/
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancelled                                      59.0 1/   0.7       59.7 It
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   24.6       9.9       34.5
Total Undisbursed                                 -        -          -
1/ Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other
participants.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by agency to prepare                      10 months (January to
the project:                                         November 1984)
(b) Agency which prepared the project:                   Ministry of Health (MOB)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank:              January 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:              November 1984
le) Date of completion of negotiations:                  March 29, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                       September 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government to review research proposals with the Bank each year before
research is carried out the following year (para. 49).
(b) Government to submit to the Bank each year a training program for the
following year (para. 47).
(c) Project Management Unit to be maintained and staffed satisfactorily
(para. 53).
(d) All sites for the project to be acquired by July 31, 1986 (para. 53).
(e) Government to carry out mid-term and final evaluations of the impact of
the project (para. 55).



. gDjve^g^  / LEBANON 
MEVITERRAIVEAN      EAON
SEA
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC                                                                  IRA
vA~~~~~~~''  IRAQ
m 0               Kri  KharJa
-Shajara
Kuotr Yo   ar"         l-Turrah
S    s9X   ~~~u-si u                Al-Souar,ee%..
AI-Nduavmet h       AIqfIPalda
Sakhra       Slrhan
fanla    O        a
4~~~~~~~ Na\ l
AI          eI              MArYSabha
KAflAK                .
ISRAEL        f               AI-HassaN                                                      \
(N    if J*Sgrla
,/AF-oadaIseh      ,\
I-Jo AI-Hussalnlhb



.   (                                                           MA'AN                                                      JORDAN
t  )    Weussa                                                                                  (FIRST  HEALTH  PROJECT
'   @ AYel                                                                                        HEALTH CARE CENTERS
*      PRIMAARY HEALTH CARE CENTERS TO BE
0                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UPGRADED (9)
MUralgha                                                                                       0       NEW PRIMARY HEALTH CARE CENTERS (25)
-30 0 
II *   3 PRIMARY HEALTH CARE CENTERS TO BE
UPGRADED TO COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH
CARE CENTERS (4)
,  /,-i NEW COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH CARE
/                                                           CENTERS (13)
Al-Qualra                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
-    GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
Aqaba
a48 Awbm                                                   /                                                        ^ , X * OCCUPIED TERRITORIES
Deh nw has bam pipaei by
Rd WV"s Bv*Is delmmy
kw Mu cw~wwmx of r.
and aije mwk!m* Eg' Sw 
O~WI~ Sfu Iiw Btw of
Caed hrd NWu bdwmwba --
&se Pwa ffu cbn  o. aVW
F  .. ;/            SAUDI  ARABIA                                            0       20      40      60      80      100                                     Fw             r a Cwp'7w
KILOMETERS  '                                                                                 n        on lw Mu ,    suha   -
of &Iy wA'-34y cr     O
360                                                                         380                             onAs .  ,acwcpav of   C
PO                                                                                                                   o4ch~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*~   bcoIdwwIs 
U,                                                                                                                                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C






