Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
Report No. 11 864UR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURKINA FASO
ENGINEERING CREDIT
FOR THE
OUAGADUOGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
June 3, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0                                          279.45
CFAF 1 million                                  US$3,578
SDR 1.0                                         US$1.376
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
CFD          French Development Bank
DEP          Directorate of Studies and Planning
FEER         Fund for Water and Rural Equipment
EPIC         Public Enterprise (Entreprise Publique a Caractere Industriel et Commercial)
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
GTZ          Duetsche Gellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Agency for
Cooperation)
KfW          Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
ONBAH        National Authority for Dams and Hydro-agricultural Structures
ONPF         National Authority for Wells and Boreholes
ONEA         National Water Authority (Office National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement)
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank appraisal mission consisting of Ms.
Yvonne Powers (Financial Analyst, Mission Leader), and Mr. Gerard Tenaille (Consultant)
who visited Burkina Faso in April 1993. Mr. Snorri Hallgrimsson is the Peer Reviewer of
the operation. Mrs. Fanny Barrett contributed substantively to the preparation of the report.
Mr. Peter Watson and Ms. Katherine Marshall are the managing Division Chief and the
Department Director, respectively, for this operation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURKINA FASO
ENGINEERING CREDIT
List of Documents in the Project File
1.     Burkina Faso Etude Tarifaire - mai 1990 by GOPA
2.     Approvisionnement en Eau Potable de la ville de Ouagadougou - Etude de faisabilite -
mars 1992 by LAHMEYER INTERNATIONAL
3.     Etude de la Tarification "Eau" par Compagnie G6ndrale des Eaux - janvier 1987
4.     Etude Sectorielle Eau et Assainissement au Burkina Faso par IWACO - janvier 1990
5.     TOR for the selection of an auditor
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BURKINA FASO
ENGINEERING CREDIT FOR THE OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Credit and Project Summary  .               ......................................    i
I. THE MACROECONOMIC  CONTEXT   .............................                                                1
II. THE WATER SECTOR .                    ......................................   2
A. Background ...........................................  2
B. Sector Organization ..........                   ...........................                     3
C. Government Sector Policy .................................    4
D. Water Resource Management ...............................    5
E. Rationale for IDA  Involvement ..............................    5
F. Lessons from  Previous IDA  Involvement ........................    6
III. THE URBAN WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM  ....                                         ..........  6
A. Objectives of the Ouagadougou Water Supply Project (OWSP) ....                        ......    7
B. Description of the OWSP  .................................    7
C. OWSP Project Costs  ....................................                                         8
IV. THE PROPOSED  OWSP ENGINEERING  CREDIT   ....................    8
A. Credit Objectives  ............                   ..........................                     8
B. Credit Description ............                   ..........................                     9
C. Credit Amount . ........................................  9
D. Financing Plan . ........................................ 10
E. Project Implementation/Monitoring  ...........................   10
F. Auditing and Accounting ..................................   10
G. Procurement  .           ........................................    10
H. Disbursements . ........................................ 11
V. INSTITUTIONAL AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS .......................   13
A. Institutional Overview  ...................................   13
B. Financial Aspects  ............                   ..........................   13
C. The Performance Contract  ................................    14
VI. JUSTIFICATION  AND RISKS  ..................................    15
A. Justification ........................................... 15
B. Risks . .............................................    15
C. Environment .            ........................................    16
VII. AGREEMENTS AND  RECOMMENDATION    .......................   17
ANNEXES:
Annex 1:          Letter of Sector Policy
Annex 2:          TOR for Environmental Assessment Resettlement Plan
Annex 3:          TOR for Final Design Study and Bidding Documents
Annex 4:          TOR for External Assistance (Project Adviser)
Annex 5:          Organigram (ONEA)
Annex 6:          Tariff Structure
Annex 7:          Performance Contract
Annex 8:          Implementation Schedule






BURKINA FASO
ENGINEERING CREDIT FOR THE OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Burkina Faso
Executing Agency:    Office National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement (ONEA)
Credit Amount:      SDR 3 million (US$4.25 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Onlending Terms:    To be passed on to ONEA on the same terms as the IDA credit
Projec
Obiectives:         The objectives of the Engineering Credit are: (i) to finance the studies
and technical assistance needed for the preparation of the future
Ouagadougou Water Supply Project; (ii) to lay the groundwork to
improve the quality of entry of this project and for its successful
implementation; and (iii) to test the commitment and ownership of the
Government and the capacity of Office National de l'Eau et de
l'Assainissement (ONEA) to improve water sector management before
making further massive investments. These objectives are in line with
Government's objective of strengthening ONEA so as to enable it to
administer the sector more effectively, to achieve financial discipline,
and to accomplish financial self-sufficiency of the urban water supply
sub-sector, all essential to ensure sustained sector development.
Project
Description:        The proposed engineering credit would finance the environmental
assessment, and the final design and preparation of bidding documents
which are required for the future Ouagadougou Water Supply Project.
In addition, the engineering credit would strengthen ONEA's capacity
to prepare and manage such a large investment through the provision
of office space and equipment and technical assistance, training and
the purchase of equipment and vehicles. ONEA would be responsible
for the preparation of the future investment project and, later on, for
its implementation.
Project
Justification:      The project would contribute significantly towards the continued
reorganization of the water sector, improving sector management,
financial accountability and resource allocation. It would also
contribute towards relieving the nation's fiscal problem by rendering
the sector less dependent on budgetary allocations and by making
ONEA responsible for servicing the existing and new debt related to
the urban water supply sub-sector. Finally, the program, once



ii
implemented, would have an important poverty alleviation impact by
making an adequate quantity of safe water available to all urban
dwellers, improving the general health situation and increasing
productivity.
Project
Risk&                The risks involve primarily the Government's willingness and capacity
to impose financial discipline, to settle arrears in a timely fashion, to
set regulations for prompt payment of water bills and to continue to
allow ONEA to increase its water tariffs periodically in order to meet
its financial obligations. The Government is very aware that a
financially sound sector, including ONEA, is a sine-qua-non condition
for further development and investment in the sector.
project Cost:        The total cost of the project is estimated at US$6.55 million equivalent
as detailed in the following table, and expressed in January 1993
prices.



iii
PROJECT COST ESTIMETES
(US$ million; net of taxes)
Local   Foreign   Total     %        %
Foreign   Total
Costs
STUDIES
Environmental Assessment         0.10      .90    1.00       90%    15.3%
Final Design Study/Bid Documents    0.46   4.16    4.62      90%    70.5%
Sub-total                          0.56     5.06    5.62      90%    85.8%
INSTITUTION BUILDING
Office construction              0.06      0.00    0.06      0%      .9%
Office equipment/vehicles        0.00      0.12    0.12    100%      1.8%
TA for Project Management        0.05      0.45    0.50     90%      7.6%
Training for ONEA staff          0.01      0.04    0.05      80%     0.8%
Incremental Operating Expenses   0.20      0.00    0.20    100%      3.1%
Sub-total                          0.32     0.61    0.93    65.6%    14.2%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                0.88     5.67    6.55    86.6%     100%
Financing Plan:
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Local         Foreign          Total        % of Total
IDA Credit               0.65           3.60            4.25           65%
[ CFD        T          0.23            2.07 T          2.30           35%
TOTAL                 0.88            5.67           6.55          100%
Estimated IDA Disbursements
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
FY94               FY95               FY96
Annual                    2.0                1.95                0.3
| Cumulative               2.0                3.95                4.25






BURKINA FASO
ENGINEERING CREDIT FOR THE OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
1.1          Burkina Faso is a landlocked country located in a transitional zone between the
Sudan-Guinean regions and the Sahel. With a per capita GDP of US$320, Burkina Faso is one of
the poorest countries in the world. It's economy depends heavily on agriculture and livestock
which account for about 30% of GDP, provide over 60% of export earnings and employ almost
90% of the country's active population. Manufacturing contributes about 14% of GDP, and trade
and services about 42%. Overall, taking into account agriculture and informal activities, private
sector activities dominate the economy and provide about 80% of the country's output. Informal
activities encompass practically all agricultural operations, are preponderant in trade and services,
and significant in the secondary sector. In the modern sector, Government services and public
enterprises play a major role. Private enterprises, however, have remained very active,
particularly in manufacturing and construction.
1.2          Rapid population growth and a weak resource base notwithstanding, Burkina
Faso's economic performance throughout the mid-1980's fared well. When the rate of expansion
of real GDP exceeded the rate of population growth, inflation was moderate. Between 1982/90,
GDP growth (3.7% annually) slightly outdistanced population growth (3.3% annually). Between
1980/88, there was rapid growth (averaging 5.5% annually) fueled by a strong performance in
agriculture (6.4% annually), an expansion of public consumption, and a construction boom
generated by public investment programs. These sources of growth, however, proved to be
unsustainable and, in 1989 and 1990, the country experienced a decrease in economic
performance because of inadequate rainfall and reduced public consumption due to budgetary
constraints; annual growth dropped to 3.4% and -0. 1% respectively. Due to exceptionally
favorable climatic conditions, it rebounded to reach 6% in 1991 and dropped again to 0.7% in
1992.
1.3          The deterioration of public finances has been one of the factors which has
hampered Burkina Faso's economic growth. The cumulative overall budget deficit of the
government, which averaged 12% of GDP in 1986/90 (excluding grants) produced a heavy debt
service burden. Because of administrative inefficiency, poor tax revenues from a stagnating
formal sector, and prioritization of other expenditures, Burkina Faso began to fall into arrears on
its domestic and external debt service obligations. At the end of 1990, external principal and
interest arrears amounted to approximately CFAF 49.4 billion. The Government accumulated an
additional CFAF 34.0 billion in domestic arrears. Gross domestic savings averaged 6.4% of
GDP during 1986-90. Due to a large influx of workers' wages, gross national savings is much
higher, averaging 10.9% of GDP during this same period.
1.4         In the 1980's Burkina Faso's external accounts developed favorably because of
increased revenues from the exportation of the commodities which are its main foreign exchange
earners: cotton, livestock, and gold. The current account deficit has improved when compared
with the performance during the 1977/82 period. Net capital inflows covered not only the current



2
account deficit during 1982/88 but also built up gross official reserves of almost seven months of
imports at the end of 1988. In 1989, however, the country's balance of payments position
weakened due to a deteriorating trade balance, a large deficit in the service account, lower net
private transfers and the state's liability for additional arrears following the liquidation of a
railway company owned jointly with Cote d'Ivoire. Burkina Faso's external position is projected
to remain fragile because of slow growth in gold exports and weakening of the terms of trade.
1.5          During the period of 1986/90, investment reached, on average, a high of 22% of
GDP largely as a result of public investments. These investments, however, consisted of a few
large infrastructure and building construction projects with marginal economic returns. Private
investment in formal enterprises was constrained by a restrictive legal and regulatory framework.
Its financing was crowded out by the privileged treatment given by the banks to the public sector
in nearly all economic activity. As a result, the private sector invested primarily in housing,
office building construction and informal activities.
1.6          In the late 1980's, when Burkina Faso's situation worsened, as a result of lagging
fiscal revenues and growing budgetary constraints and macro-economic imbalances, the
Government began to prepare, with Bank and IMF assistance, an important adjustment program
which it started to implement in 1990. This program, described in the first Policy Framework
Paper (PFP) agreed with the Bank and the IMF in 1991, included far-reaching policy and
regulatory reforms paving the way to the development of private initiative in the economic arena.
In addition to restoring sound public finance management and macroeconomic equilibria, in
particular, it aimed, at: (i) removing the constraints, and establishing an enabling environment to
promote rapid and efficient growth of the private sector; and (ii) transferring to the private sector
commercial and productive enterprises of the public sector. To facilitate this transfer and to
further encourage a sustained expansion of the private sector, the Government of Burkina Faso
(GOBF) wants now to promote the establishment of adequate and efficient support services to
private entrepreneurs, while pursuing the privatization process and taking appropriate measures to
make the financial intermediation system more responsive to their needs.
lI. THE WATER SECTOR
A. Background
2.1          Burkina Faso is a semi-arid country with an area of 274,200 km2 and a rapidly
growing population of nearly nine million inhabitants. The present urban growth rate of about
8% a year is roughly 2.3 times the overall rate of population increase (3.3%). Recent trends in
population increase have been compounded by the repatriation, caused by deteriorating conditions
in the region, of a number of Burkinabb formerly living in neighboring countries. The total
population of Burkina Faso is expected to be at least 11 million by the end of the century, with
the urban share climbing from 880,000 inhabitants in 1985 (11 % of the total population of 8
million) to 2.4 million, or 21%. According to the 1985 census, Ouagadougou with 436,000
inhabitants accounted for about 50% of the urban population. Its population is expected to be
941,000 in 1995, 1,201,000 in the year 2,000 and 1,533,000 in 2,005. These projections are
based on growth rates of 7% until 1995 and 5% thereafter, compared to 9% over the 1975-90
period, when drought in the Sahel zone intensified migration to the urban areas.
2.2          Burkina Faso extends over three climatic zones: the Sahel in the North, the dry
savanna region in the middle and the humid savanna in the South. The long-term average rainfall



3
amounts to 860 mm for the country and varies from 400 mm in the North to 1200 mm in the
South. However, since 1976, rainfall has constantly been 10% to 20% below the long-term
average, resulting in a lowering of the water table of about 0.5 m per year. Of the average
annual rainfall of 860 mm, it is estimated that 21 mm contributes to surface runoff, 829 mm is
lost through evaporation and only 10 mm infiltrates to recharge the aquifers. This gives an
annual incremental groundwater storage of 2.74 billion m3, but it is unevenly distributed over the
country and not easily accessible because of the geological conditions. Groundwater occurs in the
weathered zone above the bedrock and in fractured zones. To extract this water, boreholes have
to be drilled up to 50 to 80 m deep in rock and are relatively expensive for a limited yield of
about 10 m3 per day. Surface water is also scarce and only the Mouhoun River is perennial.
Normally, dams have to be constructed to equalize flow and to store water for the dry season, but
up to 2,000 mm per year of the stored water may be lost due to evaporation.
2.3           In the rural areas, Government policy is to provide the villages with the
necessary water infrastructure, mainly through grant financing and encouraging village
participation. With assistance from the donor community, more than 7,000 wells and boreholes
equipped with handpumps have been constructed and more than 10,000 have been programmed
for the future. The results of this effort are encouraging and at the moment most rural dwellers
have access to a minimum quantity of safe water, of nearly 10 liters per capita per day. The
Government's objective is to double this by the year 2000. The villages are fully responsible for
operation and maintenance, and all rural water supply projects now include village participation,
public information and training of technicians to operate repair and maintain the handpumps.
Village committees are responsible for collecting the funds needed to finance small repairs (CFAF
50,000 or US$200 equivalent a year per water point).
2.4          The main sector problems, however, are in the urban areas, where the water
supply authority, Office National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement (ONEA), cannot expand its
operations fast enough to satisfy the rapidly increasing demand caused by rapid urbanization.
With the financial aid of the CFD and KfW, existing facilities have been or are being upgraded.
They are, however, stretched to their maximum capacity. As all nearby water resources are fully
and even over-exploited, new resources have to be brought in from further and further away.
This results in costly and bulky investments.
B. Sector Organization
2.5          The Water Ministry was established in 1983, when the Government realized the
importance of water resource management in relation to economic development and reorganized
the water sector accordingly. The former Ministry of Rural Development was split into a
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, and a Water Ministry, solely responsible for water
resource management. The duties of the Water Ministry are divided among two main directorates
and four parastatals: (i) the Studies and Planning Directorate (DEP), responsible for
identification, planning and project implementation, including procurement; (ii) the Directorate for
Inventorying Water Resources, responsible for producing and maintaining a national inventory of
surface and groundwater resources (a water balance project is being undertaken with financing
from the Government of the Netherlands), (iii) the National Authority for Wells and Boreholes
(ONPF), responsible, as a contractor and in competition with the private sector, for the
construction of rural water supply systems; (iv) the National Water Authority (ONEA),
responsible for urban water supply and sanitation; (v) the National Authority for Dams and
Hydro-agricultural Structures (ONBAH), responsible for small dams and irrigation systems; and



4
(vi) the Fund for Water and Rural Equipment (FEER), currently responsible mainly for
environmental protection and anti-erosion measures linked to land management programs. In
principle, the parastatals are financially independent. The proposed project would focus
exclusively on the urban water supply sector, mainly through the provision of financial assistance
to ONEA to carry out the studies necessary to render ONEA capable of increasing its water
production and distribution capacity through a future Ouagadougou Water Supply Project and to
strengthen its capabilities to manage its finances and future bulky investment projects.
2.6          The National Water Authority (ONEA) was established on July 22, 1985, by
decrees No. 85/387 and 388/CNRIPRES/EAU. Its duties are to (i) create and operate all
facilities for storage, transport, treatment and distribution of raw and potable water for urban and
industrial needs and (ii) create and operate all facilities for urban sewerage and drainage. Under
the Urban Environment Project which is currently being prepared, it is envisaged to transfer the
responsibility for storm-water drainage to the municipalities, since it is more appropriately
planned and executed in conjunction with road projects that fall under municipal responsibilities.
As far as sewerage is concerned, ONEA currently does very little. In the absence of government-
run treatment plants, almost all sewerage is dealt with through individual solutions-mini-treatment
plants or septic tanks-even for large buildings. Virtually no sewage is treated. Much is, in fact,
discharged directly into drains or onto waste ground. A Sewerage Master Plan has recently been
completed and the UNDP/Bank-funded West Africa Regional Water Group is currently pilot
testing individual sewage methods in poor areas in order to design a more comprehensive
program which will be financed under the planned Urban Environment Project. The rest of this
report focuses, therefore, on ONEA's urban water supply activities.
2.7          At the moment, ONEA is dejure responsible for the water supply in 34 urban
centers, through five regional directorates. De facto, of the total population in these centers of
about 1.5 million, about 53% are served by ONEA through 37,071 house connections and 2,036
standpipes, of which about 80% have already been privatized. This system works very well
through a network of private standpipe operators who have a contract with ONEA to buy metered
water at the standpipe to be resold to individual consumers. The payment delays that ONEA used
to suffer when the standpipes were operated by the municipalities have been virtually eliminated
and waste has been dramatically reduced since it is in the operators' interest to maximize the
amount of water for which his clients actually pay. The rest of the population obtains its water
from traditional sources (wells, marshes, street vendors, etc.).
C. Government Sector Policy
2.8          The financial difficulties that have faced Burkina Faso during the past few years
have led the Government to redefine its sector strategy and objectives. The water and sanitation
sector in Burkina Faso is hampered by manpower and financial constraints which result in
deficient maintenance, weak wellfield management practices, premature degradation of existing
facilities, a backlog of expansion and poor levels of service. The Government issued in October
1992 a Water Sector Policy Letter specifying its new sector strategy and objectives (Annex 1). It
was agreed at negotiations that the Government will implement the program set out in the letter.
Failure to do so would constitute grounds for the Association to suspend disbursements (para.
7.3). The sector policy is now to provide potable water and adequate sanitation facilities as
quickly as possible to all urban and agglomerated rural population and, at the same time, reduce
the financial dependency of the water sector on Govermment subsidies. The strategy to achieve
these objectives is to strengthen the sector institutions in order to enable them to manage the



5
sector efficiently, including the coordination of foreign aid, and achieve the financial
independence of the sector through the reinforcement of cost recovery principles.
D. Water Resource Management
2.9          In Burkina Faso, the water sector ranks as one of the Government's foremost
priority concerns, a concern reflected in all facets of the country's development programs and in
the wide range of efforts being undertaken by the entire nation, with the aim of implementing the
National Water Policy effectively and consistently. Water management has thus become a
prerequisite for economic and social survival.
2.10         The major challenge facing the water sector is how to meet the already huge but
ever growing demand for water when available resources are limited, unevenly distributed, and
inexorably becoming more precarious as the ecosystem is steadily degraded. Major efforts have
already been made to compile improved data on the country's water resources, notably by
establishing a master potable water supply system plan, a geographic data system, observation
networks, and data banks. A "Water Balance" Program is underway in order to provide better
data to decision-makers. Surface water data is reasonably complete; groundwater data is still
incomplete. The priorities for water management and water use are set out in the Letter of Sector
Policy: first, drinking water provision; second, agricultural and environmental protection uses;
third, energy protection. The Directorate of Planning and Studies of the DEP, reviews project
proposals and signals priority conflicts to Cabinet for decision. In practice, conflicts have been
rare.
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.11         The rationale for IDA involvement in the urban water supply sector is to assist the
Government to master the critical water situation in Ouagadougou and improve sector
management. This would contribute to poverty alleviation by improving the living standards of
the population, mainly in the poorest suburbs of Ouagadougou. In addition, it would have a
positive impact on public health. Institutional reforms are difficult to achieve and need a long
term involvement. IDA's catalytic influence would encourage other donors to participate in
project preparation and financing, and its comparative advantage in multi-donor sector reform
operations makes it the appropriate lead agency. The objectives of this project, which would
make an effective contribution to the development process, would be extremely difficult to
achieve without IDA's involvement.
2.12         The amount of investments is very high and no single donor would be able to
fund the entire sector investment program. Even the program of detailed design and
environmental studies exceeds the intervention capacity of any individual donor. It is therefore
proposed that IDA takes the lead in this project, both in the study phase and in the second
investment phase. The specific rationale for granting the proposed engineering credit would be to
get involved in the sector on a small scale, so as to test both the willingness of the Government to
implement sector reforms and the capacity of ONEA to improve its technical and financial
management.



6
F. Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement
2.13         This is IDA's first involvement in Burkina Faso's water sector. The proposed
engineering credit draws heavily on the lessons learnt from other water supply projects undertaken
in the Sahelian region. The major problems identified in these projects have been government
interference, non-payment by government of its utility bills, and poor management and financial
accountability of the utility. A performance contract, to be concluded between the Government
and ONEA, includes clauses which, if respected, would resolve these obstacles. The Government
is clearly aware that IDA's involvement in the future Ouagadougou Water Supply Project is
dependent on the results of this up-front conditionality. As for the other ongoing operations in
infrastructure, the Public Works and Employment Project is performing commendably, the
Transport Sector Project is performing reasonably well, and there has been a recent turnaround in
the Urban III project. The main lesson learned from these operations is that management is the
key factor. The proposed project reflects this lesson in that the Government has been very
involved in project conception and preparation. This project will not only give IDA the
opportunity to assess the institutional capability but will also give it the chance to encourage its
development.
III. THE URBAN WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
3.1          The sub-sector investment program supports the objectives of the country strategy
by addressing the need to formulate and execute a priority investment program and to enable
sector institutions to manage sector development more effectively. The investment program is
dominated by the investment needs for Ouagadougou where limitations on locally available water
resources have imposed the need for a bulky investment to dam and transport water from the
Nakanbe River forty-six kilometers from the capital. This investment, even after optimization,
would absorb almost 80% of the approximately CFAF 50 billion urban water supply investment
budget. The second important investments are for two secondary cities water supply projects
financed by Danida and the KFW totalling CFAF 5 billion, and a project for Bobo Dioulasso at
just over CFAF 4 billion, partially financed by the KFW and for which complementary financing
is still to be identified. Overall, the biggest and the priority investment is for the Ouagadougou
component. The original estimated cost for the Ouagadougou water supply was of the order of
US$183 million. However, by rationalizing design criteria and water consumption targets, by
curbing the demand and spreading the investments over a longer period, it is estimated that
financial requirement could be limited to US$140 million for Ouagadougou. A feasibility study
for the Ouagadougou Water Supply Project (OWSP) was completed in July 1992 and financing is
needed for the necessary studies: environmental assessment and resettlement plan, final design and
preparation of bidding documents. IDA would propose to intervene in two phases: first, through
the Engineering Credit for the OWSP presented in this SAR and, second, through a future credit
to contribute to the financing of the OWSP itself.



7
A. Objectives of the Ouagadougou Water Supply Project (OWSP)
3.2          The OWSP would be an urban water sector investment operation for
Ouagadougou through which the Bank would assist the Government to:
(a)   strengthen ONEA (improve autonomy, accounting, long term planning,
realistic project design, efficiency of operation and maintenance, and
explore the prospects of privatization);
(b)   improve ONEA's financial situation by improving the collection rate
(agreement with Government on payment procedures and settlement of
arrears to ONEA), and by allowing ONEA to implement a realistic pricing
policy and set adequate tariffs in order to achieve full cost recovery;
(c)   improve service levels by increasing production and distribution capacity
(satisfy basic needs for the population and lift constraints for industrial
development);
(d)   improve efficient use of water resources (curb water demand and reduce
wastage); and
(e)   improve donor coordination and encourage donors to participate in
financing the investment plan.
B. Description of the OWSP
3.3          On the physical side, the OWSP would finance the expansion of the Ouagadougou
water production and distribution facilities; including the following works:
(a)   construction of a dam and intake works on the Nakanbe River near Ziga:
length 3,467 m; height 13 m;
(b)   transmission mains of 1,000 mm diameter comprising: (i) a raw water
force main between the intake and the treatment plant (2,200 m); (ii) a
treated water force main (5,400 in3, 15,150 m) between the treatment
plant and the Boudtenga storage facility; and (iii) a gravity main between
the Boudtenga storage facility and the Paspanga pumping station (29,000
m);
(c)    a treatment plant of 1,000 I/s (80,000 m3/day) capacity, built near the
dam;
(d)   reinforcement of the distribution network, including elevated storage
tanks.



8
C. OWSP Project Costs
3.4          Project cost estimates are based on a feasibility study for the Ouagadougou water
supply expansion carried out by consultants and completed in July 1992. For the other
components, cost estimates are based on other reports or IDA's estimations. Base prices are
expressed in January 1993 prices. For physical contingencies, 15% have been added. Price
contingencies for imported goods and services have been estimated in accordance with Bank
guidelines: 3.1% per annum for the period 1992-2002. Local price increases for the project
construction period (1995-2000) have been estimated at 4% per year. Prices are free of taxes.
OWSP Summary Cost Estimate
CFAF million        US$ million   % foreign
Ouagadougou Water Supply
Dam, intake:               4,881               19.52         77%
Transmission main:          7,765              31.06         70%
Treatment plant:            1,785               7.14         88%
Distribution network:      7,914               31.66         59%
Energy and pumping:          814                3.26         87%
Total Base Cost:           23,159              92.64         74%
Physical contingencies:     3,475               13.90        74%
Price contingencies:       4,670                18.68        74%
Total Project Cost:        31,304              125.22        74%
Training:                           250                 1.00        70%
Institutional Support:              500                2.00         90%
Studies:
Environmental assessment:    200                 0.80        90%
Final design:                772                 3.09        70%
Preparation bidding documents: 386             1.54          70%
Supervision of works:       1,621                6.48        70%
Grand Total:               35.033              140.13        74%
IV. THE PROPOSED OWSP ENGINEERING CREDIT
A. Credit Objectives
4.1          The objectives of the Engineering Credit are: (i) to finance the studies and
technical assistance needed for the preparation of the future project; (ii) to lay the groundwork to
improve the quality of entry of the future project, for successful implementation; and (iii) to test
both the commitment of the Government to the sector reforms that are required to sustain the
effective operation of the installations that would be financed under the OWSP and the capacity of
ONEA to improve water sector management before making further massive investments.



9
B. Credit Description
4.2          The proposed engineering credit would help to finance the preparation of the
Ouagadougou Water Supply Project. Specifically it would finance (a) consultant services for the
preparation of final designs and bidding documents and (b) consultant services for the dam and
transmission main components, the environmental assessment and resettlement plan. In addition it
would strengthen ONEA's institutional capacity to manage a project of this scale by financing (a)
a full time international expert on the management of large scale water supply projects, (b)
training for ONEA staff in project design and management, (c) the marginal costs of adding
additional office space to an ongoing construction project to accommodate the staff working on
the project, (d) office equipment and vehicles and (e) the incremental costs associated with project
management. Terms of reference for the environmental assessment and resettlement plan (Annex
2) have been reviewed by the Association and are judged acceptable. The future OWSP would be
located well upstream of the Bagre dam site on the Nakanbe river. Since the new dam is small
relative to Bagre, it would have little or no implications on the international waterway. This will
be confirmed by the environmental study. Terms of reference for the preparation of final designs
and bidding documents (Annex 3) have been reviewed by the Association and are judged
acceptable. For the latter study, the letter of invitation, the short list of consultants, and the draft
contract have been submitted to the Association which has no objection to the documents. Terms
of reference (TOR) for the external assistance in project management are attached as Annex 4.
C. Credit Amount
4.3          The Engineering Credit would be passed on by Government to ONEA on the
same terms as the IDA credit under a financing agreement acceptable to IDA and would finance
the following:
Local    Foreign    Total       %        %
Foreign   Total
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   C o sts
STUDIES
Environmental Assessment            0.10        .90      1.00      90%   15.3%
Final Design Bidding Documents      0.46      4.16       4.62      90%     70.5
Sub-total                            0.56       5.06      5.62      90%   85.8%
INSTITUTION BUILDING
Office construction                 0.06      0.00       0.06       0%      .9%
Office equipment/vehicles           0.00      0.12       0.12     100%    1.8%
TA for Project Management           0.05      0.45       0.50      90%    7.6%
Training for ONEA Staff             0.01      0.04       0.05      80%    0.8%
Incremental Operating Expenses      0.20      0.00       0.20     100%    3.1%
Sub-total
0.32      0.61      0.93    65.6%    14.2%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
0.88      5.67      6.55    86.6%    100%
.=  . 



10
D. Financing Plan
4.4            The Borrower will be the Government of Burkina Faso. The total amount of the
IDA credit will be passed on to ONEA on the same terms as the IDA credit under a financing
agreement acceptable to the Association. ONEA would bear the foreign exchange risk, but
Government would reserve the right to compensate ONEA partially for the costs associated with
any foreign exchange movement that would lead to what Government may consider to be
excessive tariff increases. The signing of the Financing Agreement would be a Condition of
Effectiveness (para 7.2 (a)). The Caisse Fransaise de Developpement (CFD) is preparing a grant
of FF 15 million, equivalent to approximately US$2.9 million of parallel financing which will
finance the final design and bidding document preparation for the treatment station and the
distribution network. Signing of the CFD grant agreement would be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 7.2 (d)).
E. Project Implementation/Monitoring
4.5           The proposed project would be executed by ONEA, whose project management
capabilities would be strengthened through the provision of technical assistance and basic
equipment (Annex 8 shows the implementation schedule). ONEA would be responsible for the
preparation of the future investment project and, later on, for its implementation using the
principles and the successful experience with specialized contract management in urban projects in
the Sahel. ONEA's operations will be monitored using the vehicle of a performance contract
which is discussed in the section on Institutional and Financial Aspects.
4.6          As mentioned earlier, one of the main objectives of the technical assistance credit
is to test Government's commitment to sector reforms and improve ONEA's management capacity
before making further massive investments. To assess results achieved, ONEA will prepare
quarterly and annual reports to be submitted to the Association no later than one month after the
end of the quarter and no later than March 31 of the following year respectively. The quarterly
report will include targets indicated in the performance contract and the results actually achieved.
Performance of ONEA will be monitored through the performance contract which contains all the
specific monitoring indicators that are required.
F. Auditing and Accounting
4.7          As noted below, ONEA has set up an adequate accounting system. It has not,
however, been subject to external audits by independent auditors. Rather, its accounts were
reviewed by the Government's Commissaire aux Comptes. Under the project, ONEA's accounts
will be audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Association and the audited accounts,
together with the auditors' report will be made available to the Association not later than six
months after the end of ONEA's fiscal year. Agreement has been reached on the Terms of
Reference for a multi-year auditing contract. Selection of auditors for a multi-year contract
satisfactory to the Association will be a Condition of Effectiveness (para. 7.2 (c)).
G. Procurement
4.8          Consultant services for studies, technical assistance and training will be procured
according to Bank guidelines dated August 1981. Procurement under parallel CFD financing will



11
follow CFD procedures and will be carried out simultaneously with the IDA procurement.
Contracts for construction, vehicles, materials and equipment, too small to warrant ICB
procedures (less than US$100,000 each), will be procured under LCB. Items or groups of items
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or less per contract may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers acceptable to the Association. The table below summarizes the project elements,
their estimated costs and the proposed methods of procurement:
(USS million)
Project Element                               Procurement Method
LCB/Shopping           Other              Total Cost
Environmental Assessment                                      1.00                 1.00
l ________________________________________                    (1.00)               (1.00)
Final Design Study and Bid                                    4.62                 4.62
documentation                                                (2.32)               (2.32)
Construction of a Project Office          0.06                                     0.06
(0.06)                                   (0.06)
Offiec equipment/vehicles                 0.12                                     0.12
(0.12)                                   (0.12)
Technical Assistance                                          0.50                 0.50
(0.50)               (0.50)
Training for ONEA staff                                       0.05                 0.05
(0.05)              (0.05)
Incremental Operating expenses            0.20                                     0.20
(0.20)                                  (0.20)
TOTAL:                                    0.38                6.17                 6.55
(0.38)             (3.86)               (4.25)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
H. Disbursements
4.9            For the preparation of the final design and bidding documents, the credit would
finance 100% of the foreign and local costs of the components financed by IDA. All contracts
for studies and technical assistance (about 90% of credit demand) will be subject to prior review
by IDA. Disbursements from the IDA credit will be fully documented, except for payments
under contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent, training and incremental operating expenses,
which will be reimbursed against certified statements of expenditures, for which documentation
will be retained by ONEA for review by IDA supervision missions and project auditors. Taking
into account that the proposed credit is a simple engineering and technical assistance credit, it is
expected that it would be fully disbursed within a two and a half year period. The closing date
would be June 30, 1996. The related disbursement profile shown below, in US$ million:



12
Disbursement Schedule
FY and sernester   Disbursements per      Cumulative          Percentage
semester
1994 I                           0.80                0.80              18.8%
II                           1.20               2.00              47.1%
1995 I                           1.30                3.30              77.6%
II                          0.65                3.95              92.9%
1996 I                            0.3                4.25             100.0%
Disbursement Table by Category
Category              Amount of Credit            Disbursement
l ______________________         (US$  million)             percentages
1. Studies
Environ. Assessment                          1.00                     100%
Final Design Study/Bid                       2.32                     100%
2. Civil Works                                0.06                      100%
3. Equipment/Vehicles                         0.12                      100%
4. TA for Project Mgt.                        0.50                      100%
5. Training                                   0.05                      100%
6. Incremental Operating                      0.20                      100%
expenses
TOTAL                                   4.25
4.10         The Government will establish, maintain and operate, in a commercial bank, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, a Special Account to which IDA will make an initial
deposit of about US$300,000 (estimate for about three months of expenditures). This Special
Account will be replenished by IDA monthly according to disbursement regulations and will
include a certification by the bank holding the account showing (i) account activity since the last
replenishment application, (ii) the account balance, and (iii) a reconciliation statement. Should
any disbursement made be disallowed by IDA, the Government will redeposit the corresponding
amount in the Special Account. Given the availability of the Special Account, applications for
direct payment and for reimbursement will normally be for US$30,000 (or 10% of the initial
deposit) equivalent minimum.



13
V. INSTITUTIONAL AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Institutional Overview
5.1          During the 1980's, ONEA pursued an expansion program for water supply,
without adapting its organizational and management system. This approach led to a situation
characterized by financial losses, a considerable decline in productivity of its personnel, as well as
an acceleration in the loss of its autonomy. To address this unacceptable situation, in 1990 the
authorities launched, with the help of Technical Assistance (GTZ), a restructuring program aimed
at getting ONEA on sound footing. The objectives of creating the maximum number of new
centers and increasing the number of private connections have been abandoned in favor of a
policy of strengthening the existing water supply systems. Thus the new policy consists of the
rational exploitation of the resources as well as their protection against pollution. In addition, to
safeguard all water sources, ONEA put in place in 1991 a program to control the quality of water
on a regular basis. ONEA has also established a preventive maintenance system, including
adequate stocks and equipment.
5.2           Tariffs were increased in 1991 by 25%. In 1992, the Council of Ministers
adopted a new tariff policy which included not only automatic annual increases until 1995, but
also a change in the tariff structure (the called-for tariff increases were implemented on schedule
in 1992 and 1993). A number of accounting measures have been introduced which have
significantly reduced the time it takes to prepare the annual statements. For example, prior to
1990, it took approximately 24 months to finalize the accounts. This was reduced to less than 4
months in 1992. It should also be noted that quality of the statements has improved considerably
as well.
5.3           Since 1992 the annual budget has been prepared on time and a monitoring system
(for costs, cash flow, etc.) has been set up. A working expense ratio target (operating expenses
not including depreciation to sales) has also been introduced in order to contain and reduce the
costs of operations. In 1992, a commercial section was established together with a definition of
its responsibilities. A complete revamping of the billing system is underway. In 1992, a
vigorous campaign was undertaken to clear up outstanding accounts receivable, especially large
customers including public and semi-public customers. The computerization of such functions as
accounting, personnel, stocks, fixed assets/depreciation is planned for 1993/1994. A management
information system is presently under development and will be operational by 1994, as is a
revaluation of assets exercise (under CFD financing).
5.4          A new organization chart for ONEA (Annex 5) has been established by the GTZ
technical assistance team, and submitted to the Bank who deemed it satisfactory. This chart
shows the staffing of each unit in 1993 and 1995. The objective is to reduce the number of
employees from 610 to 518 over a two year period. This reduction will be monitored during
implementation of the engineering credit.
B. Financial Aspects
5.5          Up to now, ONEA has been a loss making entity that has survived thanks to
Government subsidies and a low standard of service. Since 1986, ONEA made a loss every year,
with a peak of about CFAF 1.4 billion in 1990 (US$5.6 million). The revenue for the three last



14
years was, in CFAF million: 3.5 in 1989, 4.0 in 1990 and 4.0 in 1991. This compares to the
expenses of the same years: 4.2 in 1989, 5.4 in 1990 and 4.2 in 1991. Although the number of
employees decreased from 1990 to 1991, the personnel expenses jumped from CFAF 742 million
to CFAF 924 million. This was due to a new personnel statute and the implementation of a 13th
month of salary.
C. The Performance Contract
5.6          The water tariffs had not been adjusted between 1983 and 1991. A water tariff
study was carried out in 1990 by Consultants under KfW financing. It recommended to increase
the tariffs every year in order to gradually reduce the losses, and to cover 57% of the costs in
1990, 64% in 1991, 69% in 1992, 76% in 1993, 90% in 1994 and 100% in 1995. Until now,
these recommendations have been followed. The tariffs were increased in 1991, 1992 and 1993.
The decision to increase the tariffs as of June 1, 1993 was signed on January 19, 1993, and is
given in Annex 6.
5.7          A draft 1993-96 performance contract (Annex 7) was discussed during appraisal.
In particular, according to its statutes, ONEA should have the responsibility for the planning,
studies and construction of new works, which at the moment are the responsibility of the DEP,
within the Water Ministry. The Ministry could then concentrate on sector policy, sector
development, water resources management and rural the water supply sub-sector.
5.8          The performance contract, which will cover a three year period beginning on July
1, 1993, includes a number of provisions. The performance contract gives several targets which
will be monitored during implementation of the Engineering Credit. The more important ones are
the following:
(a)    Tariff increases, based on a tariff study, are to be implemented every June
1 through June 1995. These increases which are based on a new tariff
policy, involve rather substantial increases and will allow ONEA to break
even in 1995;
(b)    A rate of return covenant on net revalued fixed assets in operation should
rise from -3% in 1993 to -1.5% in 1994 and 0% in 1995. The target for
the year 2000, which will be specified in next performance contract,
should be 5%;
(c)    The average collection period for private customers will be reduced from
3 months in 1993 to 2 months at then end of 1995;
(d)   With regard to the payment of Government bills, the present performance
contract includes a provision that states that by October 31 of every year,
an estimate will be made based on the actual consumption of the previous
year. Based on this estimate, four equal bills will be established and the
Government will be required to settle the bill for each quarter no later
than March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31. In addition,
an action plan for the settlement of Government arrears is to be included.



15
(e)    The collection rate, excluding the Government's bills, should be raised
from 85% in 1993 to 90% in 1994 and 95% in 1995;
(f)    Ratios to reduce system losses such as volume of water billed to volume
of water extracted (75% in 1993, 76% in 1994, and 77% in 1995);
(g)    The number of house connections, standpipes and water points, per
employee of ONEA should be raised from 80 in 1993 to 90 in 1994 and
100 in 1995 (this together with the restructuring of the organigram (Annex
5) should lead to the reduction of staff from 610 in 1993 to 518 in 1995);
(h)    ONEA would only be responsible for towns of more than 10,000
inhabitants;
(e)    ONEA will have its accounts audited every year and will put in place by
end of 1994 a computerized management system.
The signing of a performance contract acceptable to the Association would be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Engineering Credit (para. 7.2 (b)).
5.9          Since the performance contract ends June 30, 1996, there is a provision that
another tariff study will be undertaken 6 months prior to its expiration, so that new tariffs and
targets can be proposed. The timing of this will correspond well with the preparation of the
OWSP. The respect of the performance contract by the Government and ONEA, as well as
meeting the targets specified above, would be criteria for the financing of future investments.
VI. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Justification
6.1          Without this engineering credit, the Government would be unable to proceed
further with the preparation of the Ouagadougou water supply project. The project would
contribute significantly towards the continued reorganization of the water sector, improving sector
management, financial accountability and resource allocation. It would also contribute towards
relieving the nation's debt problem by rendering the sector less dependent on budgetary
allocations and by making ONEA responsible for servicing the existing and new debt related to
the urban water supply sub-sector. Finally, the program, once implemented, would make an
adequate quantity of safe water available to urban dwellers and improve the general health
situation.
B. Risks
6.2          The risks involve primarily the Government's willingness and capacity to impose
financial discipline, to settle arrears in a timely fashion, to set regulations for prompt payment of
water bills and to continue to allow ONEA to increase its water tariffs periodically in order to



16
meet its financial obligations. The Government is very aware that a financially sound sector,
including ONEA, is a sine-qua-non condition for the further development of the sector. The use
of an Engineering Credit will allow the Bank to verify: (a) Government Commitment; and (b)
ONEA's capacity to respond before committing IDA funds to a massive investment program. To
minimize the risks, the Association would have the right to suspend disbursements (a) should the
Government not implement the program set out in the Water Sector Policy Letter or (b) if ONEA
should fail to perform its obligations under the performance contract or the financing agreement
(para. 7.3).
C. Environment
6.3          As this project is financing only the studies and detailed engineering for the future
project it is a category C. However, the future project will include a dam on the Nakanbe River
and up to 5,000 people will have to be relocated. The TOR for the environmental assessment
which is financed by this credit, have been reviewed by IDA. The ODs on the environment and
on resettlement have been complied with. The expansion of the distribution system will result in
an increase in the volume of water sold by water vendors and the amount of water stored at
home. This increases the opportunities for the accidental pollution of the water. In addition, the
production of wastewater will increase dramatically, and an increase in the disposal of wastewater
is a potential negative environmental impact. These aspects have also been included in the TOR
for the environmental assessment. Finally, the Development Credit Agreement will contain
clauses specifying the following with respect to the environmental assessment, including the
resettlement plan:
(a)   the objectives of the study should be made widely known so that all
interested parties can express their opinions;
(b)   the conclusions of the study should be circulated widely in a form and a
language that make it accessible to all interested parties;
(c)   the report should be made available to the public;
(d)   the points of view expressed by the population should be taken into
consideration; and
(e)   that the draft report should be forwarded to IDA for its review and
comments within 60 days of their receipt by Government;
(f)    within the framework of the resettlement plan for the population affected
by the OWSP, the Government will consult with the population concerned
according to mechanisms that respect their socio-cultural values in order
to permit them to retain their living standards and socio-economic
conditions. The Government should agree to forward the resettlement
plan to the Association for review within 60 days after its receipt by the
Government.
These clauses will ensure that the major issues relating to the environment and resettlement are
properly addressed in the reports.



17
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1          During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following points:
(a)    The Government will carry out the program contained in the Letter of
Sectoral Development Policy;
(b)    The performance contract between the Government and ONEA will be
implemented from July 1, 1993, and its conditions respected by both
parties (para. 5.7);
(c)    With regard to the execution of the study on the environment, including
the resettlement plan (para. 6.3), the following should be agreed to:
(i)   the objectives of the study should be largely diffused so that all
interested parties can express their opinions;
(ii)   the conclusions of the study should be circulated widely in a form
and a language that make it accessible to all interested parties;
(iii)  the report should be made available to the public; and
(iv)   the points of view expressed by the population should be taken
into consideration.
(d)    Terms of Reference for a multi-year auditing contract acceptable to the
Association (para. 4.7).
7.2          Conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   signing of a financing agreement acceptable to the Association between the
Government and ONEA (para 4.4);
(b)   signing of a performance contract, acceptable to IDA, by the Government
and ONEA (para 5.7);
(c)   selection of an auditor, acceptable to IDA, to audit ONEA's accounts
(para 4.7); and
(d)   signing and effectiveness of the grant agreement between the CFD and the
Government (para. 4.4).
7.3          Remedies. The Association would have the right to suspend disbursements (a) if
the Government should fail to implement the Letter of Sectoral Development Policy or (b) if
ONEA shall have failed to perform its obligations under the performance contract of the financing
agreement.
7.4          Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for an
Engineering Credit of SDR 3 million (US$4.25 million equivalent).






18
ANNEX 1
MINISTRY OF WATER                 BURKINA FASO
FATHERLAN OR DEATH, WE SHALL OVERCOME!
WATER SECTOR
POLICY LETTER
OUAGADOUGOU
OCTOBER 1992






19
Annex 1
Page 1 of 11
WATER SECTOR POLICY LETTER
INTRODUCTION
An underdeveloped, landlocked country, Burkina Faso, like all African countries in the Sudan-
Sahelian belt, is still deeply scarred by a drought that has been endemic for more than twenty years. Here,
more than in other countries, water is the mainstay of environmental equilibrium, which explains why
the vagaries of the climate have had such a disastrous and persistent impact on rural development and the
domestic economy. Water management has thus become a prerequisite for economic and social survival.
Indeed, for an essentially agricultural country, water is central to all development actions within
the boundaries of socio-ecological equilibrium.
In the context of implementing the "Seven-Year Broad Alliance Program for Development and
Democracy," the role of the water sector is paramount.
In Burkina Faso, the water sector accordingly ranks as one of the government's foremost priority
concerns, a concern reflected in all facets of the country's development programs and in the wide range
of efforts being undertaken by the entire nation, with the aim of implementing the National Water Policy
effectively and consistently.
I.    OVERVIEW OF THE WATER SECTOR
Burkina Faso's hydrographic system comprises three main watersheds: the Comoe, the former
Voltas, and the Niger. Absolute average annual resources are estimated at 10 billion and 6 billion m3
for surface and groundwater, respectively.
The country made major efforts to mobilize and develop these resources during the last decade
and, in particular, as part of the popular development plans and programs (1984-90). At the same time
there was a substantial improvement in know-how, management, and conditions for rational exploitation
of these resources.
However, given the limited exploitable resources and the immense and inexorably growing
demands (steep population growth), the shortfall remains complex and intractable. This is why a great
deal remains to be done in order to achieve the lofty goals of the National Water Policy.
Implementation of the water policy is focused on the following areas:
*     urban and industrial water supply;
*     village and pastoral water supply;
*     agricultural water supply;
*     sewerage.



20
Annex 1
Page 2 of 11
1.    Urban and industrial water supply
Responsibility for managing water supply to urban and semi-urban population centers is entrusted
to a government agency, the Office National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement (ONEA).
Prior to 1986, this agency managed nineteen (19) urban centers with an estimated combined
population of 750,000 inhabitants. At the end of December 1990, the number of centers served by the
Potable Water Supply (PWS) network rose to 41, with an estimated population of 1,350,000 and a
coverage rate of 57%. However, seven (7) of the 41 centers are still equipped only with stand-alone water
points.
During this period, specific per capita consumnption levels were:
Ouagadougou          : 40 I/day
Bobo-Dioulasso        40 I/day
Other centers        : 25 I/day
Expansion of this subsector, however, is beset by a host of constraints and difficulties that limit
its positive impact. The chief constraints are:
(a)   the scarcity and/or inadequate knowledge of exploitable water resources;
(b)   the strong population pressures in the cities and the chaotic growth of the urban centers;
(c)    limited financial, physical and/or human resources;
(d)   the high cost of PWS infrastructure works;
(e)   the overall operating deficit of the 41 PWS centers, which can be traced to operational
losses incurred in managing the secondary centers, inadequate pricing, and inappropriate
institutional and/or organizational measures on the part of the state management agency;
(f)   the absence of a master plan for the PWS centers;
(g)   the inadequacy and/or complete absence of steps to effectively implement sewerage
measures.
2.     Village and pastoral water su=lv
The village and pastoral supply system is used to provide water to villages and to rural and pastoral
areas. It has evolved as follows:
*     In July 1986 there were 14,598 modern water points (wells and boreholes), 7,020 of them
permanent, which provided 36% of the rural dwellers' water needs, based on the per capita target of 20
liters/day.



21
Annex 1
Page 3 of 11
*     The census carried out in March 1992 found 22,500 water points, 14,908 of them
permanent, scattered unevenly among the country's 7,245 villages, thus raising the coverage rate to 72%
for a rural population estimated at 8.5 million (average growth rate 2.7%).
*     During the same period it was observed that more and more water was being obtained
from boreholes, which are steadily growing in number and which rose from 49.6% in 1986 to 67.2%
in 1990. At the same time, sizable disparities in the distribution of water points were found among regions
and provinces, ranging from 31% (Poni province) to 115% (Ganzourgou province).
Implementation of the policy for supplying potable water to village communities is hampered by
the following main constraints:
(a)    a growing failure rate in the construction of new water points, due to:
*     inadequate knowledge of the hydrogeological context;
*     unsuitability of technical operating methods and equipment;
*     the likelihood that virtually all the best locations were used for the initial
installations.
(b)   the heavy population pressure in rural areas.
(c)   socio-cultural resistance. In fact, even where modern water points are available, in a
number of localities some villagers can still be found drawing water from their traditional
sources, posing a serious threat to individual and community health and hygiene.
(d)   inadequate maintenance of installations by beneficiary groups, which restricts their benefits
and shortens the useful life of the water supply facilities.
(e)   the precariousness of the water supply for grazing stock.
3.    Sewerage
Sewerage is undeniably of paramount importance for public health since it contributes to the pre-
servation and development of infrastructures and installations likely to promote economic and social
advancement.
In Burkina Faso, however, the actions and measures taken in this area are still highly embryonic
or simply nonexistent.
Action has so far been limited to the maintenance of community stormwater discharge works and
the construction of small gutters in the two main urban centers (Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso). It
has not been possible to carry out any sizable investment for almost a decade. However, a few regulatory,
institutional and financial measures (sewerage tax) adopted in early 1984 had raised hopes that fresh
progress might be made in this subsector.



22
Anex I
Page 4 of 11
A review of the general status of sewerage facilities shows that initial results have been faltering
and difficult owing to the following constraints:
(a)    the people's apathy and/or lack of health education with respect to sewerage measures;
(b)    despite the strong social component of sewerage in poor countries like Burkina Faso, it
does not attract lenders;
(c)    institutional problems stemming from the presence of a host of intermediaries in the
sewerage sector, with no coordinated action;
(d)    absence of a coherent national sewerage policy;
(e)    the need for extensive technical and financial resources to construct sewerage facilities;
(f)    the absence of a master plan for urbanization and sewerage, except in Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso.
4.     Agricultural water supplv
The importance of water supply to agriculture derives from the chronic vulnerability of rainfed
farming to climatic risks. Indeed, an analysis of the food situation in Burkina Faso shows that agro-
pastoral production is still as unstable as ever, despite the special attention paid to this sector as the engine
of the national economy.
Supplying water for farming by harnessing it with the aid of hydro-agricultural projects is seen
as the surest way to compensate for rain shortfalls and thereby ensure the security of the nation's food
supply, while preserving the ecosystem and providing an attractive return for the rural community.
Irrigable soils are found along the main watercourses and represent a potential of some 165,000
ha, or 2%  of usable farmland.  Existing hydro-agricultural projects currently total 16,750 ha, or
approximately 10% of the potential area.
The breakdown of developed areas by degree of water management is as follows:
*      10,500 ha fully managed;
*       1,250 ha partially managed (improved bottom-land);
*       5,000 ha plain bottom-land;
*      72,050 ha anti-erosion sites.
These areas are further broken down into "small and medium-scale irrigation" (less than 1,000 ha),
which are being developed around some 800 existing small dams, and "large-scale irrigation" (Sosuco
sugar cane, Sourou and Bagre plains).
Irrigation currently accounts for about three-fourths of the country's rice production and the bulk
of its truck crop produce, and also plays an important part in fruit growing.



23
Asn    1
Page 5 of 11
Irrigation similarly contributes to exports, notably of green beans, vegetables and fruit.
The attention paid to irrigation through various measures and the implementation of helpful
programs (strategy for upgrading and developing irrigated perimeters, subsequent mobilization of
financing, etc.) has encouraged considerable expansion in recent years.
Further development and expansion of irrigation, however, will depend on how successfully the
following constraints can be lifted:
(a)   the lack of exploitable water resources;
(b)   the impoverishment of the soils;
(c)   illiteracy among beneficiary groups;
(d)   limited knowledge of the hydro-agricultural potential;
(e)   the fact that water projects have made inadequate allowances for socioeconomic aspects;
(f)   inadequate or weak follow-up of irrigation operations (agricultural credit, supervision and
organization of marketing outlets for produce, etc.);
(g)   inadequate financial performance by hydro-agricultural projects.
I.    NATIONAL WATER POLICY AND ITS OBJECTIVES
The national water policy has two basic objectives:
(1)   to help foster continuous improvement in the physical and health conditions of the people
by bringing appropriate solutions to bear on water problems; and
(2)   to protect and restore the enviromnent by controlling the aggressive action of water, to
prevent it from becoming a constraint on socioeconomic development.
In short, the aim is to assure the long-term control and management of water resources within
the boundaries of socio-ecological equilibrium.
This policy must be based on a sound knowledge of water resources, which will be harnessed in
accordance with the following priorities, pursuant to the provisions of the Agrarian and Land Reform:
1.    earmark water on a priority basis for drinking and household needs, in order that all
citizens can see their health and living standards improve, enabling them to participate
in the country's development effort;



24
Annex 1
Page 6 of 11
2.    take account of the absolute need to become self-sufficient in food as quickly as possible,
in view of the extreme unreliability of the rainfall, with second priority going to water
for agricultural and pastoral use; and
3.    finally, manage water rationally in order to promote agro-industrial development and
energy resources and to contribute toward environmental protection.
III. OVERALL GOALS AND ACTION PLAN OF THE NATIONAL WATER POLICY
1.    Overall goals
Bearing in mind the country's socioeconomic realities, and within the framework of implementing
the "Seven-Year Broad Alliance Program for Development and Democracy," the broad goals of the
national water policy are:
(a)   to ensure permanent water resources within the boundaries of socio-ecological equilibrium;
(b)   to contribute toward the national economic reform and recovery policy;
(c)   to assist in implementing the Agrarian and Land Reform;
(d)   to involve beneficiary groups in the management of water supply facilities and increase
their accountability;
(e)   to help improve the social conditions of the urban and rural population;
(f)   to give priority to maintaining or refurbishing and to upgrading existing water supply
facilities;
(g)   to increase the effectiveness and management skills of the authorities involved in
administering the water sector;
(h)   to adopt the "watershed" approach as an appropriate framework for planning, mobilizing
and exploiting natural resources in general and water resources in particular.
2.    Urban and industrial water supplv
(a)    Specific goals
*     contribute toward the harmonious implementation of the master urbanization and water
supply plans;
*     help to raise the health standards of the people by providing acceptable potable water and
sewerage service;



25
Pge 7 of 11
*     incorporate economic rate of return criteria in new and follow-up activities financed under
the public investment program (PIP);
*     ensure financial break-even in the management of urban water supplies.
(b)    Action plan
The revised per capita objectives for the second Five-Year Plan 1991-95 are:
Ouagadougou         : 55 I/day
Bobo-Dioulasso      : 55 I/day
Other centers        45 I/day
The following actions will be taken:
--    draw up PWS master plans;
*     progressively implement new water pricing measures;
*     carry out institutional, structural and organizational adjustments within ONEA;
*     draft measures and prepare the necessary groundwork for the so-called secondary centers
to become economically and financially feasible;
*     strengthen water supply in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso;
*     open secondary PWS centers incorporating cost recovery criteria.
3.    Village and pastoral water suD1l1
(a)    Speific goal
*     help to improve the living conditions and stability of the rural population;
*     help to promote the continuous development of livestock fanming;
*     help to implement the 'village management" approach ("gestion terroir").
(b)    Action plan
The quantitative targets of the second Five-Year Plan 1991-95 are to raise the coverage rate to
92% by:
*     construction of 3,880 new water points;
*     rehabilitation of 1,020 water points (wells and boreholes combined);



26
Annex 1
Page 8 of 11
The following actions will be taken:
*      training of local staff and transfer of know-how;
*      preparation of the second version of Burkina Faso's master plan for Potable Water Supply;
*      compilation of 1:500,000 hydrogeological maps covering the entire country;
*      creation of a national water information center;
*      provide training and consciousness-raising for beneficiary groups in the maintenance and
operation of water supply facilities;
*      ensure uniform distribution of water points (planning) and standardization of equipment
in cooperation with beneficiaries;
*      identify appropriate technical methods and equipment for controlling and exploiting
aquifers;
*      ensure compliance with the pertinent standards;
*      rehabilitate and upgrade existing infrastructures.
4.     Agricultural water suDDlv
(a)    Specific goals
*      support the development of agricultural production and contribute to domestic self-
sufficiency in food;
*      with the aid of attractive returns, help to stem the drift from the countryside and promote
the socioeconomic development of the rural population;
*      help to preserve and restore environmental equilibrium;
*      make rural communities fully accountable for the technical, agricultural and financial
management of water supply projects;
*      complement the regional programs.
(b)    Action plan
The quantitative targets of the second Five-Year Plan 1991-95 are:
*      to construct 13 medium-sized dams;



27
,Ane 1
Page 9 of 11
*      2,713 ha under full water management;
*      2,342 ha plain bottom-land and anti-erosion sites.
The following actions will be taken:
*      adhere strictly to specifications for agricultural water supply installations;
*      implementation fully the "strategy for developing and upgrading irrigated perimeters,"
activities under which are being coordinated by the water sector;
*      rehabilitate and upgrade existing facilities;
*      proceed with construction of new irrigated perimeters;
*      improve the management and technical construction of infrastructure works;
*      assist in the training and organization of viable cooperative groups that will be made fully
accountable for the technical, agricultural and financial management of their operations;
*      introduce innovative technology to reduce the cost of infrastructure works for irrigation;
*      help to ensure consistent follow-up measures with respect to agricultural production;
*      treat hydro-agricultural schemes as integrated development poles.
5.     Sewerage
(a)    SRecific goals
*      draft a coherent and consistent national sewerage policy;
*      contribute toward the improvement of public health;
*      protect the environment.
(b)    Action plan
The objectives established for the second Five-Year Plan 1991-95 are:
*      prepare and implement the master urban development and sewerage plans for 17 principal
towns, including in particular Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.
The following actions will be taken:
develop sewerage programs targeted preferentially to areas with health problems;



28
Annex I
Page 10 of 11
*     adhere strictly to the provisions of the water regulations;
*     take systematic account of the sewerage angle in potable water supply projects;
*     seek ways to improve the coordination of activities;
*     heighten the awareness of aid agencies and mobilize external and domestic resources to
meet medium-term investment needs;
*     carry out a concerted campaign to provide the people with health education;
*     implement appropriate solutions to industrial effluents consistent with the situation of the
country as a whole.
IV. DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY FOR THE WATER SECTOR
Analysis of Burkina Faso's climatic, demographic, environmental, and economic conditions high-
lights the major challenge facing the water sector, one of the main pillars of the country's socioeconomic
development: how to meet the already huge. but ever growing. demand for water when available resources
are limited. unevenly distributed, and inexorably becoming more 2recarious as the ecosystem is steadily
.ieraded.
Major efforts have already been made to compile improved data on the country's water resources,
notably by establishing:
*     a master potable water supply plan;
*     a geographic data system;
*     observation networks; and
*     data banks.
Against this backdrop, even the best formulated goals and action plans will not solve the country's
water problems by themselves but will need to be designed as part of an overall strategy that includes
meaningful measures in the areas of human skills, institutional framework, regulations, and finances.
This development strategy for the water sector should be built around three overriding concerns:
1.    ensure reliable knowledge of water resources so that they can be mobilized efficiently;
2.    manage the resource rationally so as to ensure lasting equilibrium between its development
and the ecosystem.
Resource management calls for continuous monitoring and forward planning by the
Ministry responsible for water resources and should be linked to environmental control.



29
Annex 1
Page 11 of 11
3.    guarantee that the resource is permanently available to future generations, while ensuring
that its quality is preserved.
To satisfy these concerns, the following are called for:
1.    availability of appropriate tools for observing and monitoring water resources and the
ecosystem, within the framework of a multisectoral program of applied research tailored
to the country's socioeconomic realities.
2.    availability of human resources with the skills needed to design, execute, operate and
maintain the structures required to control and manage water resources, within the
boundaries of socio-ecological equilibrium; training continues to be a powerful means of
instilling these skills. This training will be organized at all levels -basic training,
ongoing training, and advanced training- so as to help build up a local body of expertise.
3.    the overriding need for an institutional and regulatory environment capable of stimulating
and maintaining sound and dynamic cooperation among the different sectors of the
economy, in the interest of balanced national development.
4.    the creation, by way of support, of an adequate financing mechanism based primarily on
government funds generated by the water sector itself, backstopped by the international
community. Future action will be planned with this in mind.
CONCLUSION
The national water policy faces a real challenge which can no longer be avoided: to contribute
to the pursuit of development that is in balance with the country's natural resources.
Such development, tailored to Burkina Faso's socioeconomic and environmental conditions, can
be achieved only within the framework of a multisectoral -indeed international- approach. All the
country's energies and knowledge will need to be brought to bear through appropriate publicity and
consciousness raising.
The national water policy dovetails with this new outlook, which alone offers the best guarantee
for the future.
MINISTRY OF WATER                                                        OUAGADOUGOU
BURKINA FASO                                                             OCTOBER 1992






30
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 7
MINISTRY OF WATER
GENERAL SECRETARIAT
DIRECTORATE OF STUDIES
AND PLANNING
NATIONAL WATER AND
SANITATION BUREAU
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
OF THE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT FOR THE
CITY OF OUAGADOUGOU
March 1993



31
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 7
I.    INTRODUCTION
To be able to cope with the increased demand for and the lack of
drinking water in the city of Ouagadougou during the dry season, on
November 2, 1984, the Government of Burkina Faso, using financing provided by
the Federal Republic of Germany, retained Lahmeyer Interna0tional to make a
feasibility study of water supply for Ouagadougou covering the period 1985-
2005.
This study proposes execution of:
-     A dam on the Nakamb6 River at Ziga (50 km from Ouagadougou)
-     A water offtake
-     A supply line
-     A treatment station
-     An expansion of the distribution system.
The main characteristics of the project are as follows:
Reservoir
*     Watersheds:    20,800 km2
*     Capacity:       200 million m3, of which 150 million m3 usable
Line
*     Nature:         2 cast-iron pipes, 1200 mm diameter
*     Length:         40,000 m
Treatment plant:            a facility for clarification, filtration and
disinfection of the water
Distribution and Storage:  - 15 water towers of 37,500 m3 capacity
- 147 km of lines by the year 2000
- 500 standpipes and 40,000 private connections
Implementation of the project in its different components as
described above will have an impact on the environment that must be clearly
determined in order to minimize its effects.
II.   OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY
*     To study the environmental impact of execution of the Ouagadougou
City Water Supply Project.
*     To propose solutions to the different problems identified.



32                              ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 7
III. REFERENCE DOCUMENT
These Terms of Reference are based on "World Bank Operational
Directive 4.00 Annex A: Environmental Assessments," and on national and
regional legislation for protection of the environment.
IV.   CONTENT OF THE STUDY
The object will be to justify in advance the choice of a water
supply project and its consequences on the multiple utilization of water
resources and to make a broadbrush study of the following effects:
IV.1 Physical impacts on natural resources
IV.l.1      Aspects connected with the areas to be used
The studies will focus on:
*     Definition of the zone concerned
*     Inventory and diagnostic study of the existing natural resources,
rare species to be protected (fauna, forest, flora) and
archeological remains
*     The possibilities of using the trees at Ziga for lumber
(construction of villages, workshops, other) or for fuelwood
*     Definition of an appropriate technology for charcoal production
*     The market for wood and determination of the means required
*     The feasibility of clearance
*     Any suggestions that could serve to limit degradation of soils and
vegetation
*     Protection measures for flora and fauna; transhumance, etc.
*     The existing road system, plus any additional roads needed once
the works have been completed
*     Compensatory measures for reestablishing populations of species to
be protected and conserving any archeological relics
*     Measures concerning the quality of the treatment of the raw water
and sludge.



33                             ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 7
IV.1.2      Aspect connected with hydrology and the risks of silting up of the
reservoir or breaking of the dam
The studies will include:
*     The regime of the watercourse
*     Estimation of evaporation losses, their influence on the quality
of the water stored and their downstream consequences
(salinization, flooding, etc.)
*     Estimation of possible eutrophication of the reservoir and its
influence on the quality of the water
*     The gathering of data on the river, from which information can be
derived on the depositing of solid matter
*     If necessary, a series of measurements of solids carried by the
Nakamb6
*     Estimation of erosion caused by agriculture and stockraising
*     If the stagnant stretch is cleared, treatment or removal of the
sediments
*     Proposals for the regular monitoring of the reservoir water
quality, a preventive research program on pollutant wastes in the
upstream watershed and surveillance of colonization by undesirable
aquatic plants
*     The type of treatment to make the water potable, quality standards
for potable water and utilization of sludge
IV.1.3      Influence of the Ziga dam on the filling of Bagre
*     Gathering of data on the Bagr6 dam
*     Estimation of the influence of the Ziga dam on the water inputs
and functioning of the Bagr6 dam, erosion of the bed and banks,
modification of the hydraulic regime, effects on agricultural
activities and changes in the aquatic ecosystem
*     Changes in downstream flow and their consequences
*     Estimation of resulting losses (environmental, financial).
IV.1.4      Risks in case of breaking of Ziga dam
*     Inventory of areas affected (villages, population, fauna,
vegetation, etc.)
*     Estimation of losses



34
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 7
*     Steps to be taken to reduce the risks and consequences to a
minimum.
IV.2 Social impacts
IV.2.1      Population-related aspects
The studies will focus on:
*     Listing of the villages and population concerned
*     Resettlement, size of affected population, identification of areas
for resettlement and possible compensation. An acceptable
rehousing plan shall be proposed.
*     A sociological survey on acceptability and participation by the
population in the resettlement operations (inventorying and
estimating of goods lost, reception by receiving communities,
public infrastructure to be strengthened, training, health status,
etc.). The report shall include the findings of interviews with
the people concerned.
*     Study of the occupations the people engage in and proposals as to
future activities the dam might generate.
*     The impact of the dam on land use and livestock
*     Study of the development and organization of fishery.
IV.2.2      Aspects connected with health risks
*     Assessment of diseases due to proximity of the dam (malaria,
schistosomiasis, etc.) in the villages around it
*     The risks of appearance of certain vectors as a result of the
hydraulic conditions that will be created at the level of the
spillway for example (simulium damnosum for onchocerciasis)
*     An information and awareness-rousing campaign among the people on
the benefits and risks connected with execution of the project
*     Proposals on associated measures
*     A program to monitor the impacts and measures to mitigate any
negative effects.
IV.2.3      Aspects connected with the impact of execution of the project on
the urban environment
*     Estimation of the increase in water consumption and its
consequences



35                                ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 7
*     Wastewater disposal and possibility of recycling wastewater.
V.    COMPOSITION AND DURATION OF MISSION
V.1   Composition of the mission
Number                       Mission members                         Duration
(man-
months)
1     Water supply and environment specialist-Mission leader           8
1     Socioeconomist                                                   4
1     Specialist in public health and tropical diseases                2.5
1     Botanist specialized in forest management                        2.5
1     Remote sensing and cartography specialist                        2
1     Hydrologist                                                      2
1     Zoologist                                                        1
1     Sociologist (woman) and team of interviewers                     6
I  Total    28
V.2   Duration of the mission
The total duration of the mission is estimated at eight months,
during which the consultant will perform the following services:
-     Make contacts with the different services and gather data and
documents
-    Visits to the field, surveys, processing and analysis of data
gathered
-     Discussion of the main conclusions with the technical services
concerned
-    Writing of the reports.
V.3   Reports
The consultant will submit to the promoters of the project monthly
reports on the progress of his work. Similarly, a report setting out the
study criteria is to be submitted three months after the start of the study, a
preliminary report six months later and the final version of the report after
eight months.



36                              ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 7
Number         Mission members            Duration   Unit cost   Total cost
man-months      CFAF         CFAF
Water supply and environment
1        specialist-Mission leader              8     6,000,000    48,000,000
1        Socioeconomist                        4      4,500,000      18,000,000
Specialist in public health
1       and tropical diseases                   2.5   4,500,000      11,250,000
Botanist specialized in
1        forest management                      2.5   4,500,000      11,250,000
Remote sensing and
1       cartography specialist                  2     4,500,000       9,000,000
1       Hydrologist                             2     4,500,000       9,000,000
1       Zoologist                               1     4,500,000       4,500,000
Sociologist (woman) and team
1        of interviewers                        6      6,000,000    36,000,000
Total                                          28                   147,000,000
Overhead 30X                                                         44,100,000
Travel                                                               10,000,000
Grand Total                                                         201,100,000
Rounded Total                                                       200,000,000






37
ANNEX 3
POTABLE WATER SUPPLY
FOR THE CITY OF OUAGADOUGOU
=  -- 0
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
-==0==---U
JANUARY1993



I



38
SUMMARY
I.  INTRODUCTION
I.1         GEOGRAPHY
I.2         SOCIOECONOMIC SITUATION
1.3         EVOLUTION OF THE PWS SYSTEM
II.  OBJECTIVES
I1.1        ENGINEERING ASPECTS
11.2        FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ASPECTS
III. PWS STATUS
III.1       STATUS OF FACILITIES IN 1992
III.2       CURRENT STATUS OF PROJECT
IV. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
IV.1        METHODOLOGY
IV.1.1      Formulation
IV.1.2      Overall mission
IV.1.3      Liaison with executing agency
IV.1.4      Procedure
IV.2        BASIC STUDIES
IV.2.1      Hydrological studies
IV.2.2      Geological and geotecnical studies
IV.2.3      Topogaphical studies
IV.2.4      Environmental study
IV.2.5      Design criteria



39
IV.3         DETAILED ENGINEERING
IV.3.1      Catchment
IV.3.2      Treatment
IV.3.3      Supply
IV.3.4      Storage
IV.3.5      Distribution
IV.3.6      Simulations
IV.4        ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL STUDY
IV.5        SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
V. REPORTS AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
V.1         GENERAL
V.2         PRELIMINARY REPORT
V.3         PROGRESS REPORTS
V.4         TECHNICAL REPORTS
V.4.1       Report on basic study and design criteria
V.4.2       Geological, geotechnical and topographical report
V.4.3       Detailed pre_iminary designs
V.4.4       Economic and financial study
* Socioeconomic report
* Economic and rmancial report
* Report on system management
V.5         BIDDING DOCUMENTS
V.6         APPROVAL OF REPORTS
V.7         IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE



40
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 21
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.1    GEOGRAPHY
Burkina Faso is a west African country of 274,800 km2 lying within the loop of the River Niger,
some 1,000 km from the Atlantic coast.
Ouagadougou, the capital, is the country's largest city. It is situated on the central plateau in the
middle of the country, at an elevation of 300 m. Its coordinates are: latitude 12-21' north and longitude
1 31 ' west.
It has a tropical climate of the Sudano-Sahelian type, characterized by alternating seasons of
unequal length: a short rainy season from June to September and a long dry season from October to May.
The city lies between isohyets 800 and 1000 mm.
The tropical regime of the hydrographic system reflects rainfall levels. It is essentially defined
by three main watersheds:
* that of the Niger in the north
* that of the Nakanbe, Nazinon and Mouhoun in the center
* that of the Comoe in the south-east.
Ouagadougou is located in that of the center.
1.2    SOCIOECONOMIC SITUATION
The "Reference Document" prepared in 1985 presents the socioeconomic situation of the city.
Economic activity in Ouagadougou is diversified, with the tertiary sector dominant (79%) over
the secondary (14%) and primary (7%).
At the time of the 1975 census, the city of Ouagadougou had 250,000 inhabitants.
The 1985 census showed a population of 431,000 inhabitants, giving a growth rate of 9% a year.
The growth rate for the country as a whole is 2.68% a year.
The urbanization rate in the city is growing rapidly, with large migratory movements from the
rural areas into the cities.
The breakneck pace of urbanization in the city of Ouagadougou is causing critical problems that
must be addressed without delay, the most important being that of potable water supply.
1.3    EVOLUTION OF THE PWS SYSTEM
The city of Ouagadougou's potable water supply consists of a conventional surface supply system
built about forty years ago.
The basic facilities at the time comprised an intake on Dam No. 3, a treatment station with a
capacity of 620 m3/hr situated at Paspanga, and a rudimentary network of distribution mains made of cast



41                                ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 21
iron and asbestos cement which supplied the city's chief administrative, commercial, religious and
residential centers.
The systemn has evolved considerably since then:
1951: Basic system
1970: Supply from the Loumbila dam added
1977: Construction of the Danish station
1984: Start of the Feasibility Study
1985: Construction of stand-alone water stations
1986: Rehabilitation of the Danish station
1987: Independent network at Pissy
1990: Start of reinforcement works - Emergency Measures
1991: Independent networks at Nioko I and Nioko II.
The Emergency Measures carried out from 1990 to 1992 had the effect of rehabilitating and
strengthening the system.
* Catchment  :      construction of a canal and pumping station to harness an additional 600 m3 of
raw water.
* Treatment  :      construction of a new treatment facility with a capacity of 400 m3/hr.
* Storage and
distribution  :   construction of 4 new water towers with a total capacity of 5,000 m3. Laying
of separate delivery mains and distribution networks 180 km long, with 188 water
hydrants.
The purpose of the Feasibility Study begun in 1984 by the consulting firm of LAHMEYER
International was to identify alternative solutions for supplying water to the city. After reviewing a
number of alternatives, it recommnended an approach to catchment, treatment, supply and distribution
which was written up as a Summnary Preliminary Project (SPP).
The results of the study were presented to a lenders' conference in Frankfurt, Germany, on
November 19 and 20, 1992. The lenders unanimously agreed on the technical and financial feasibility
of the project and on the need for a few adjustments.



42                                   ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 21
II.  OBJECTIVE
The purpose of the present study is to prepare an implementation blueprint to be used as a basis
for competitive bidding on and execution of a project to supply potable water to the city of Ouagadougou
in the time frame 2000 to 2005.
The study will comprise two parts:
* technical aspects
* financial and economic aspects.
II.1   TECHNICAL ASPECTS
The technical studies proposed consist in putting together a construction blueprint containing design
notes, plans and technical drawings, precise quantities, and the necessary bidding documents, for construc-
ting water supply infrastructure works to meet Ouagadougou's potable water needs through 2005.
11.2 FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ASPECTS
The study will make it possible to determine the repercussions of the project on the borrower's
financial situation and its impact in terms of organization and staffing.
It will also use economic analysis to determine the project's economic and financial rate of return
based on current and projected revenues and on the financing plan.
The different stages of the assignment are:
Stage 1 *    Preparation of the implementation plans and compilation of the bidding documents.
Stage 2  *    Publication of the documents, screening, negotiations, and drawing up of the draft
contracts, in cooperation with the Management.
The different stages may be covered by different procurement contracts.
III. PWS STATUS
Population
In 1990 the population of Ouagadougou was estimated at 671,000 inhabitants. It is currently
(1992) estimated at 768,000, giving a growth rate of 7%. The following growth rates have been assumed
for project purposes:
*     from 1990 to 1995:   7% per year
*     from 1996 to 2010:   5% per year.



43
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 21
III.1 STATUS OF FACILITIES IN 1992
Existing system
The central system:
The central system comprises a surface water catchment facility, a treatment station, storage
reservoirs, and the distribution network.
* Catchment
Dams       Year   Commissioned    Capacity    Average annual   Usable volume
Built                  in m3 x 106   usable volume     in dry year
Ouagadougou    1934        1951             6.11          3.31            3.26
Loumbila       1947        1970            35.50         10.80            2.49
The intake at Ouaga comprises three 175 m3/hr pumps; the Loumbila intake consists of three
480 m3/hr pumps and a 600-mm cast-iron main 18 km in length.
* Treatment
Comprises the following facilities:
Units                        Date                       Cacity
Degremont                               1954                       620 r3thr
Static                                  1971                       200 m3thr
Danish                                  1977                       600 r3thr
KfW (Emergency Measures)                1992                       800 m3/hr



44                                 ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 21
Storage
Water             Date            Location          Height           Capacity
Towers                            (Sector)           in m              in m3
Rl                     1977            25                11               500
Kamsaoghin                              6                 9             1,000
Koulouba               1972             5                10             1,500
Gounghin               1965             9                               3,000
Cissin                                 16                10               500
Camp                                    9                10               500
Pissy                  1987            17                17               500
R2                     1992            28                28               500
R7                     1992            10                32             2,000
R8                     1992            29                22             1,500
R9              1      1992            16                15             1,000
* Distribution network
This comprises 500 km of primary and secondary distribution mains serving hydrants and branch
connections.
* Decentralized system
This comprises the Nioko 1, Nioko II and Pissy independent networks and the stand-alone water
stations.
Independent      Date          No. of       Throughput     Length of     Population
networks                     boreholes      in m3/hr    network (Im)   (inhabitants)
Nioko I           1992            5             77.0       44,392         52,000
Nioko II          1992            6             69.0       20,956         25,000
Pissy             1987            13           123.2       37,778         50,000
* Water stations
There are 28 water points scattered throughout the peripheral sectors.



45
ANN~EX 3
Page 6 of 21
111. 1 CURRENT STATUS OF PROJECT
In 1984, to meet the increase in demand and the lack of potable water in Ouagadougou during
the dry season, the authorities initiated feasibility studies that have just been brought to completion thanks
to financial assistance from KfW of the Federal Republic of Germany.
The cost of the project is estimated at CFAF 88 billion, of which CFAF 45 billion is for the first
stage (through 2000).
To mobilize the necessary financing, the project was submitted to a donors' conference held in
Frankfurt (FRG) on November 19 and 20, 1992.
The participating lending agencies:
*     praised the quality of the study carried out by LAHMEYER International.
-     found the cost of the project high.
*     stated that they were willing to finance the works.
*     recommended that the first stage of the project be tailored to ONEA's financial and
organizational capacity.
IV. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
IV. 1 METHODOLOGY
IV. 1.1 Formulation
The consultant will develop appropriate methods to ensure full implementation of the Study
within the lead times established for its services.
It will demonstrate the technical and financial validity of its bid using a methodology
appropriate to the situation. To this end, before starting the works, it will specify in detail the work to
be performed by its different agents and the resources and equipment to be brought on site for purposes
of the project. The entire study will be carried out in close collaboration with the Client.
IV. 1.2 Overall mission
The consultant will be fully accountable for all stages of the project up to final acceptance:
*     Preparation of the construction documents (comprising design notes, plans and
technical drawings, precise quantities, and economic and financial appraisal) and
compilation of the bidding documents.



46                                   ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 21
Publication of the bidding documents, screening, negotiation and drawing up of
the draft contracts in cooperation with the Management.
IV. 1.3 Liaison with executing agency
The consulting firm will be required to maintain continuous liaison with the executing
agency.
ONEA, which is the executing agency responsible for overseeing the engineering works,
will establish an executing unit to monitor and directly supervise the conduct of the studies and other
works.
The consulting firm will arrange for professional and technical staff from the executing
unit to participate in the tasks to be performed by the expatriate personnel, so as to maximize the scope
for transfer of technical know-how.
IV.1.4 Procedure
In performing its services under the implementation study the consultant will adopt a
similar procedure for all the different components of the system:
A:    Catchment
B:    Supply
C:    Treatment
D:    Storage
E:    Distribution
The consultant's specific assignments address the following aspects:
*     basic studies
*     detailed engineering
*     financial and economic study
*     system management
*     procedures for carrying out the works.
IV.2 BASIC STUDIES
The consultants will collect, compile, analyze and process the basic data required in order to carry
out the study. Existing data, notably from the Feasibility Study, will be supplemented as necessary by:



47                                  ANNEX 3
Page 8 df 21
field investigations
laboratory tests.
IV.2.1 Hydrological studies
The basic hydrological report in the Feasibility Study dates from September 1986; its
purpose was to evaluate different alternative approaches to solving Ouagadougou's water supply problem.
Briefly, this report contains the following:
*     Overview of the existing reservoirs, i.e. Loumbila, Ouagadougou, those in the
Loumbila watershed (3), and those in the Ouagadougou area (4).
*     new water supply alternatives based on:
- the Black Volta    (R. Mouhoun)
- the Red Volta     (R. Nazinon)
- the White Volta    (R. Nakanbe)
In the case of the While Volta variant, the consulting firm:
*     calculated average inflows.
*     calculated peak inflows.
*     estimated evaporation at the various potential sites.
*     compared the potential White Volta sites.
Pursuant to the supplementary TOR of 1988, the consulting engineers revised the water
inventory on the basis of a hydrological study that placed more emphasis on the sites at ZIGA I and II
and on Loumbila. The firm accordingly tabulated inflows, requirements and evaporation, and calculated
optimum sizing for the impoundment, which it put at 200 million m3.
For the implementation study, the consultant should check, update, and further refine the
data from the Feasibility Study, as follows:
(1) With respect to the watershed:
*     prepare an inventory of dams capable of affecting the filling of ZIGA, complete with their
characteristics and any necessary recommendations.
*     verify the surface area and include a location drawing showing existing stream-gauging
stations.
*     determine runoff coefficients, overall gradients, and the state of degradation of the hydro-
graphic system.
*     determine characteristic times, permeability, etc.



48                                 ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 21
(2) Inflows
The stream-gauging stations date from the 1950s. The time series used by the consulting
firm for the Feasibility Study comprise data from 1954 to 1983, that is, for approximately thirty years,
with data missing for some years.
The series should be supplemented with data from 1984 to 1992.
The data relate to rainfall and flows at the measuring stations. These data will be used
to update the calculations of inflows and flow rates.
For each case and for each structure the consultant will specify the average and maximum
inflows, flood discharges (flood hydrograph), evaporation and evapotranspiration, and entrained solids.
(3) Impoundment
The site chosen for the dam is ZIGA II on the middle course of the R. Nakanbe at
kilometer marker 1280, approximately 50 kmn east of Ouagadougou.
Conditions were evaluated as part of the Feasibility Study, but only in overall terms.
Implementation will require verification and refinement of selected data to permit fine tuning of the
structures, specifically:
*     data on the reservoir in terms of inflow and discharge rates.
*     effective and usable volumes
*     capacity of the reservoir
*     evaporation
*     flood stage of the project
*     sedimentation and silting
*     dead storage.
The consultant will also carry out simulations of reservoir operation and management,
and make recommendations regarding any supplementary works or measures to be put in place to permit
efficient management of the reservoir.
IV.2.2 Geological and geotechnical studies
The geological and geotechnical studies carried out under the Feasibility Study were mainly
concerned with the potential sites at Loumbila and Ziga, as well as with borrow sites.
The field investigations carried out on-site under the Feasibility Study comprised:



49                                     ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 21
*      visual reconnaissance visit
*      drilling of reconnaissance wells 3 to 10 meters in depth
*      test drillings along the alignment with coring to a depth of 10 to 30 meters
*      test drillings in cuts 3 to 5 meters in depth.
The laboratory tests, trials and analyses carried out during the Study comprised:
*      type of soil (identification)
*      density
*      water content
*      permeability
*      Proctor test
*      shear resistance
*      dispersivity
*      aggressiveness to concrete.
Deposits of materials identified within a 30- to 40-kilometer radius are:
*      sands and gravels: Kourikiaka, Basbedo, Sawana
*      clays: valley
*      aggregates for concrete: quarries at Wayen, Pissy, Ziniar6.
The geological and geotechnical studies to be carried out under the implementation study
are aimed at accurately determining:
*      the quality of the foundation and supporting soils of the dam and associated structures
*      the degree of permeability or imperviousness of the reservoir basin
*      the availability and quality of materials for fill and for mixing concrete.
On completion of these studies, the consultant will make a final decision regarding the
type of structure and the kind of foundation treatment required, specifically cememt grouting and its
characteristics (number, spacing, depths).



50                                     ANNEX 3
Page  11 of 21
Investigations on site will include:
*      geological photo-interpretation of the site and the surrounding area based on aerial
photographs taken by the Burkina Geographic Institute (IGB).
*      test drillings in cuts, reconnaissance boreholes varying in depth from 3 to 30 meters around
the sites of the structures (dikes, channel, spillway, intake, treatment and pumping stations, access roads,
main supply line, storage reservoir).
*      reconnaissance wells to investigate geological strata at the potential locations of borrow
materials.
Laboratory analyses of typical samples will be performed on a meaningful number of the
test drillings conducted, i.e. at least 10%, and will be used to obtain information on:
*      density
*      water content
*      particle size distribution
*      Atterberg limits
*      Proctor and Standard Penetration Tests (SPT)
*      permeability
*      resistance
*      shear
*      dispersivity
*      triaxial test
*      aggressiveness to concretes
*      organic content
*      soundness test
*      seismic surveys.
The criteria for selecting deposits will be a function of:
*      the quality of the deposit in terms of particle size distribution



51                                ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 21
*     the volume of material available in the deposit
*     the haulage distance between the deposit and the site of the dam.
The consultant could develop other additional methods of analysis if it considers them
necessary and will specifically examine the recommendations made in the Feasibility Study regarding the
supplementary investigations which were to be carried out but which were left open, namely:
*     risk of suffusion of the sands in the bed and flood zones
*     degradation of the foundation earth due to the dispersivity of cohesive soils under the
influence of an underflow current
*     aggressiveness to concrete of the soils and groundwater of the bed
*     availability of filter material vs. the use of geotextiles
*     heaving and changes in soil characteristics due to water absorption
*     adhesion of foundation layers to bedrock
*     physical and mechanical properties (bearing values) of the foundation soils of the
structures (dam, spillway, channel, stations, access roads, pipeline, observation wells,
portals, etc.).
IV.2.3 Topographical studies
As part of the Feasibility Study of Ouagadougou's PWS, the Client arranged for local
contractors to compile a 1:10,000 monochrome map of the Nakanbe valley (formerly the White Volta).
The map in question covers only a strip 2.7 km wide, with the R. Nakanbe in its center, bounded to the
north by the bridge carrying the Ouagadougou-Kaya highway and to the south by that carrying the
Ouagadougou-Koupela road.
A more accurate topographical survey to a scale of 1:2,000 was made along the axis of
the dam by the consulting firm of LAHMEYER, with the assistance of technicians from the National
Bureau of Dams and Hydro-agricultural Projects (Office National des Barrages et des Amenagements
Hydro-agricoles [ONBAH]).
The assignments as far as topography is concerned can thus be summarized as follows:
1.    Site conditions
The 1:10,000 monochrome map must be expanded to include the contiguous areas up to
0.5 kmn' on either side of the river and then enlarged to a scale of 1:5,000.
Y'    The original reads 0.5 m. A typo is suspected.



52                                  ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 21
The map should cover the entire reservoir area of the dam to permiit identification of the
villages to be relocated.
2.     Layout plan and situation drawings
These should cover the following:
*     the dike
*     the spillway
*     the channel
*      the treatment station
*      the pumping stations
*      the main supply line
*     the reservoirs
*     the ancillary structures.
3.     Grading
The precise elevations of the structures will need to be determined to enable the various
offsets to be calculated.
In the case of the main supply line, the access roads, flyover structures or crossings (over
depressions), and the power line, in particular, both the longitudinal profiles and the cross sections will
need to be calculated.
IV.2.4 Environmental study
Separate terms of reference have been prepared for the environmental study for the
Ouagadougou PWS project. This study is to be carried out in parallel with or before the implementation
study by a different consultant or through subcontracting.
The consultant awarded the implementation study will be required to collaborate with the
consultant for the environmental study and to take into account, and comment on, the findings of this study
when preparing the implementation study.
IV.2.5 Design criteria
The consulting firm will propose the design criteria on which the design of the project
is to be based.



53
ANNEX 3
Page 14 of 21
These criteria should be based on local operating conditions or standards deemed
satisfactory on the strength of earlier reports with respect to local experience or standard, recognized
engineering practices. These should be discussed and agreed with the Client.
The criteria must also take account of the recommendations by the round-table held in
Frankfurt in the Federal Republic of Germany on November 19 and 20, 1992.
The criteria will encompass the parameters relating to each component of the system,
namely:
*      catchment
*      supply
*     treatment
*     distribution and storage.
IV.3   DETAILED ENGINEERING
Each component of the system will be covered by:
*      a design note
*     detailed engineering plans and drawings
*     nprecise bills of quantity.
IV.3.1 Catchment
Catchment comprises the dam itself, its associated structures, and the intake.
It will be necessary to update the design features of the different structures by calculating:
*     for the reservoir: its capacity, dead storage, minimum operating level, normal design
elevation, and peak impounding head, height of the dike, and year-to-year regulation.
*      for the flood spillway: its length, height of overflow, and wire drawing
*     the stilling pond
*     the water intake
*      the positioning of the outlet works together with possible alternatives
*     evaporation.



54                                     ANNEX 3
Page 15 of 21
IV.3.2 Treatmnent
Treatment comprises the actual treatment structures (flocculator, clarification basin, filters,
tank), the upstream and downstream pumping stations, and appurtenant structures (service buildings, living
quarters, storage sheds, etc.).
It will be necessary to define:
*      raw water requirements
*      the capacity of the different structures
*      their type
*      reserves
*      electricity supply.
IV.3.3 Supply
Supply comprises the main supply line and different associated structures (observation well,
crossing structures or flyovers), and water handling devices (valves, air valves, outlets, etc.).
It will be necessary to define:
*      the minimum and maximum flows
*      the characteristics of the supply line (type, diamneter, length, quality)
*      the dynamic heads
*      the linings
*      alignments (longitudinal profile and cross section)
*      crossing structures (flyovers)
*      water hamner and protective measures
*      handling devices (valves, outlets, etc.).
IV.3.4 Storage
Storage comprises the different water reservoirs.
It will be necessary to determine:



55                                     ANNEX 3
Page 16 of 21
*      their volume (operating reserves, firefighting, etc.)
*      their distribution and architecture
*      their service pressures
*      their heights
*      their construction materials and imperviousness
*      the hydraulic equipment required
*      their stability.
IV.3 .5 Distribution
This is made up of the primary, secondary and tertiary networks at the various stages of
the project time frame.
These networks should be defined in terms of:
*      the alignments of the supply conduits
*      material and diameters
*      the profile of the conduits
*      their service pressures
*      the number of hydrants and their location
*      the networks' water handling devices
*      diagrams of joints
*      etc.
IV.3.6 Simulations
The consulting firm will carry out the following simulations:
*      operation of the dam (release, intake, evaporation) with details of year-to-year regulation
*      operation of the spillway, the stilling basin, and outlet works (wire drawing, flood
hydrograph, etc.)
*      operation of the station with the different regulating and control devices



56                                   ANNEX 3
Page 17 of 21
a      operation of the main supply line showing its control and handling devices
*      operation of the storage reservoirs and their controls
*      overall operation of the network
*      optimization and mathematical model of distribution
*      integration and operation of the proposed system
*      development of software for project management by the Client.
IV.4   ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL STUDY
The Feasibility Study calculated the capital and operating costs of the project and performed an
economic analysis under different scenarios. The cash flow was calculated for:
*      the existing system plus Stage I and Stage II
*      the existing system plus Stage I
*      Stage I
*      Stage II.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out to assess performance in the event of deviations in the factors
(change in water prices, lower network efficiency, more modest consumption).
The consultant will be required to make a financial and economic reappraisal of the resized project.
It will calculate detailed estimates of:
(a)    Project costs
*      basic costs
*      unit costs
*      capital costs
*      costs of existing facilities
*      operating costs
*      additional costs (financing and related charges)
(b)    Cost prices



57                               ANNEX 3
Page 18 of 21
*     the dynamic financial cost per m3 of water
*     the dynamic economic cost per m3 of water.
(c)    The internal rate of return
*     the internal financial rate of return
*     the internal economic rate of return.
(d)    Cash flow
The cash flow will be calculated using at least two different rates of interest.
The consultant will draw up a financing plan and will examine in particular the impact of the
project on ONEA's financial condition. It will also carry out a sensitivity analysis to test deviations in
various factors, such as: increase in the rate of losses (20 % instead of 15 %), more modest consumption,
and different movements in water prices.
IV.5 SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
The analysis performed in the Feasibility Study on the overall structure of ONEA and its personnel
will be updated, expanded and deepened since the project must be resized in keeping with ONEA's tech-
nical and financial capacity.
The consultant will accordingly need to carry out a diagnosis:
*     of its institutional framework: it will be necessary to review the general framework within which
ONEA is evolving, to identify potential impediments to satisfactory project implementation and manage-
ment, and to propose improvements.
*     of ONEA: its organization, technical capacity, human resources, financial situation, etc. This
diagnosis will also be accompanied by suggestions of an organizational, technical, financial and personnel
nature designed to enable ONEA, in liaison with the Ministry of Water, to successfully execute the project
and manage the facilities to be constructed. With particular reference to staffing, the consultant will
determine any additional requirements and will propose a program to train existing personnel and to recruit
the new staff required to execute the project and manage the system in the future.
V. REPORTS AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
V.1   GENERAL
The project promotor and its financial partners attach great importance to adherence to the lead
times for preparing and submitting the different reports required during the study. The working language



58                              ANNEX 3
page 19 of 21
will be French, and all documents and reports will be drafted in French. An English translation will also
be required.
With the exception of the progress reports, the preliminary version of each report will be submitted
simultaneously for review and approval to the executing unit -10 copies- and to the financing group-
2 copies. The preliminary versions of the technical reports will be discussed and agreed with the executing
unit within six (6) weeks following their submission. The technical reports will be revised and submitted
in final form to the executing unit in the Ministry of Water -10 copies- and to the lender - 2 copies-
one month after approval of the provisional version.
V.2   PRELIMINARY REPORT
The initial report will be submitted within one month following the start of the study. It will
present the consultant's work program and define the scope of the study, with comments on the TOR and
a work program for each task. It will specify the submission dates for (the preliminary version of) each
of the technical reports and will name the experts (with their professional experience) actually assigned
to work on each task.
The timetable proposed for carrying out the study will be broken down into tasks and sub-tasks
and presented in graph form.
V.3   PROGRESS REPORTS
These reports will be submitted in five copies to the executing unit within the Ministry of Water
and in one copy to the lender. They will be prepared monthly. The reports will give a concise account
of the work done and in progress, the number of staff, the time devoted to each task, and an exhaustive
list of any problems encountered that are likely to lead to delays in carrying out the study, together with
the remedies advocated. The reports will indicate the status of billing, in addition to a recapitulation of
the reports [to date].
V.4   TECHNICAL REPORTS
V.4.1 Report on design criteria
The consultant's report will reflect all the consequences of the decisions taken during the
1st Conference of Lenders for the Ouagadougou PWS Project, held in Frankfurt on November 19 and 20.
The basic data obtained will be supplemented and presented in this report, together with
the consultant's comments and suggestions regarding pertinent proposals.
It will also record in this report all the design criteria reviewed, refined or agreed with
the executing unit.
V.4.2 Geological, geotechnical and topographical report



59                                  ANNEX 3
Page 20 of 21
This report will present the findings of the geological, geotechnical and topographical
investigation program covering the sites of the project's main components, notably the dam, the treatment
station, the access roads, the main supply conduit, and the reservoirs.
It will be sufficiently accurate to allow structural design work to proceed, together with
the necessary final plans.
V.4.3 Detailed preliminary designs
This report will contain an exhaustive recapitulation of the design of the structures
proposed, complete with their different design features. It will also include, for each component, detailed
preliminary drawings, together with design notes.
These detailed preliminary designs will include architectural plans, structural drawings,
drawings of electrical and mechanical installations, and drawings for the civil engineering works and
pipelines.
The detailed preliminary designs will be presented as separate reports for each structure:
-      the damn and associated structures
-      the treatment station and pumping stations
-      the main supply line
-      the water towers
the distribution network
V.4.4 Economic and financial study
This report will be in three sections:
*      a socioeconomic section
*      an economic and financial appraisal
*      a section on system management.
V.5    BIDDING DOCUMENTS
The documents will be drawn up in confornity with the provisions of the "international contract
conditions applicable to contracts for works and services" published by the International Federation of
Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). They will comprise:



60                                 ANNEX 3
Page 21 of 21
*     notice of prequalification
*     prequalification package
*     bidding package, consisting of:
- instructions to bidders
- submission and attachment
- model agreement
- model guarantee
- model performance bond
- contractual conditions
- plans and drawings
*     confidential estimate of costs (5% margin of uncertainty)
V.6   APPROVAL OF REPORTS
The maximum lead time for approval of any report is two months. If no comment is forthcoming
from the execution unit within two months following its submission, a report shall be deemed approved
as presented, provided, however, that it shall have been submitted no later than the date specified in the
preliminary report.
V.7 IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE
The works set forth in the present Terms of Reference shall be completed within fifteen (15)
calendar months from the date of the authorization to commence the works:
T            = date of signature of the contracts and authorization to commence the works
T + Ilmonth  = start of the Study
T + 2        = Preliminary Report
T + 6        = Report on Design Criteria
T + 8        = Geological, Geotechnical and Topographical Report
T + 10 n    = Economic and Financial Study and Report on System Management
T + 12 "    = Detailed preliminary designs
T + 15 "    = Bidding Documents.



61
ANNEX4
PROJECT ADVISQR
Job Description
Position:    Advisor to ONEA's Development Department Director.
Qualifications Water engineer with a good knowledge of design, implementation, operation
and maintenance of large urban water supply systems.
Experience:   10 years of management of urban water supply projects.
Responsibilities:
(a)    Advise the Director of the Development Department
(b)    Ensure preparation and review of designs, studies and documentation needed
for project execution
(c)    Arrange for review and, where applicable, for approval of documentation by
ONEA, other agencies of the Government of Burkina Faso, IDA and other
financing agencies
(d)    Prepare and coordinate with consultants, ONEA, Government agencies and
the co-financiers, the bidding process
(e)    Oversee actively in the supervision of works and develop procedures for
monitoring and reporting on project implementation
(f)    Advise on the selection of staff for operation and maintenance functions
(g)    Assist in preparing instructions for operation and maintenance of the water
sypply system
(h)    Participate in the implementation of the training program for ONEA's staff
(i)    Prepare quarterly progress reports on project implementation for ONEA, IDA
and other cofinanciers
(j)   In carrying out this assignment, the project advisor will to the maximum
extent possible, train local counterpart staff



STAFFING
New ONEA Organization Chart
Target Year 1993
Sedio AParogramog                           t Gwl                            orrl OFI
D   | Opsabrr     &|
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Faal I n |   ,Direlrt                                                                                 Hjiman P |oumW
| CwVra Wodmliop   J   i    F                                                                                                              l at
Water ProducOon,                                                                                    Personral5m5It    ACOIflflg1s
S 1nkation Service                              GU&* SwuOW                                          ProdioA dmin Cssrae                                               i   Operat1
Servic    Fiwnar      T,nra             Srvc           Seink c
gI I 2-       u   DwII =.,            ,                 I       ef
1                 I I                                 r         Isu IIs I                                                                                  c '
SeO1              Stat                               A501D Mac
Lasw..2!0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sife ysz
100
~~~*5 Sedion ~~~~~~~~~~~~100 - 250
250 - Soo
SW0- 1000
1000 - 1500
>1500
I_I
arp.w53926






ANNEX 6
63
Page 1 of 5
MINISTRY OF WATER
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY,
TRADE AND MINES
DECREE No. 93/0001
MICM/EAU FIXING THE SELLING
PRICE OF WATER PRODUCED AND
DISTRIBUTED BY THE NATIONAL
WATER AND SANITATION BUREAU
(OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'EAU ET
DE L'ASSAINISSEMENT (ONEA))
THE MINISTER OF WATER
THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY,
TRADE AND MINES
Having regard to the Constitution of June 2, 1991
Having regard to Decree No. 92/160/PRES of June 16, 1992,
appointing the Prime Minister
Having regard to Decree No. 92/161/PRES of June 19, 1992,
establishing the composition of the Government of Burkina Faso
Having regard to Order No. 77-007/PRES of March 1, 1977,
regulating the price system
Having regard to Order No. 74-051/PRES of August 9, 1974, on the
establishment, prosecution and prevention of offenses in
connection with prices, together with its amendment No. 77-
001/PRES/CODIM of January 7, 1977
Having regard to Decree No. 85/387/CNR/PRES/EAU establishing the
National Water and Sanitation Bureau (Office National de l' Eau et
de L'Assainissement -- ONEA)
Having regard to Decree No. 85/388/CNR/PRES/EAU approving the
Statute of the National Water and Sanitation Bureau
Having regard to the Decision of the Council of Ministers adopted
at its session of April 24, 1992,



64                               ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
HEREBY DECREE AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE 1:  The selling price of the water produced and distributed by the
Office National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement (ONEA) in the
towns served by ONEA is hereby fixed as detailed in Annexes I, II
and III attached to this decree.
ARTICLE 2:  Violations of the provisions of this decree, which will enter into
effect as of June 1, 1993, will be punished in accordance with
current economic legislation
ARTICLE 3:  This decree revokes all previous provisions contrary to it,
specifically those of Joint Decree No. 00022/MICM/EAU of June 26,
1992.
ARTICLE 4:  The Director General of the Office National de l'Eau et de
l'Assainissement and the Inspector General of Prices and Economic
Affairs are hereby charged, each in his particular sphere, with
ensuring application of this decree, which shall be registered,
published and communicated wherever necessary.
Ouagadougou, January 19, 1993
THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY,                           THE MINISTER OF WATER
TRADE AND MINES
(stamp)                                           (stamp)
/s/ Zephirin DIABRE                              /s/ Seni Macaire NARE



65                                 ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
ONEA TARIFFS
EFFECTIVE DATE JUNE 1, 1993
TARIFFS FOR SALE OF WATER
GENERAL WATER TARIFF:
(a)  Potable water sold to standRige concessionaires:           CFAF 127/m3
No ceiling amount
(b)   Potable water sold through individual supply Roints:    CFAF 64/m3
(postes d'eau autonomes)
No ceiling amount
(c)   Potable water sold to consumers
1.    Consumption of from 0 to 10 m3:                     CFAF 134/m3
2.    Consumption of from 11 to 25 m3:                    CFAF 209/m3
3.    Consumption of from 26 to 50 m3:                    CFAF 390/m3
4.    Consumption of from 51 to 100 m3:                   CFAF 441/m3
5.    Consumption of 101 m3 and above:                    CFAF 461/m3
(d)   Raw water:                                                CFAF 202/m3
No ceiling amount
MINISTER OF INDUSTRY,                                      MINISTER OF WATER
TRADE AND MINES
(stamp)                                                  (stamp)
Isl Zephirin DIABRE                                    /I/ Seni Macaire NARE



ANNEX 6
66
Page 4 of 5
ONEA TARIFFS
EFFECTIVE DATE JUNE 1, 1993
TARIFFS FOR SALE OF WATER
II. COST OF SETTING UP METERING EOUIPMENT
a. ADVANCE ON CONSUMPTION:
METER DIAMETER           ADVANCE
15 mm            CFAF 12,275
20 mm            CFAF 18,635
25 mm            CFAF 25,250
30 mm            CFAF 31,865
40 mm            CFAF 45,495
50 mm            CFAF 59,325
60 mm            CFAF 73,155
80 mm           CFAF 100,815
100 mm           CFAF 128,475
150 mm           CFAF 197,625
200 mm           CFAF 266,775
b. METER INSTALLATION CHARGE:
-     Meter of diameter smaller than or equal to 30 mm:             CFAF 860
-     Meter of over 30 mm diameter:                              CFAF 1,600
c. STAMP DUTIES:
-     On original:                                                 CFAF 200
-     On copy:                                                     CFAF 200
THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY,                                  THE MINISTER OF WATER
TRADE AND MINES
(stamp)                                                  (stamp)
/s/ Zephirin DIABRE                                     /s/ Seni Macaire NARE



ANNEX 6
67                               Page 5 of 5
ONEA TARIFFS
EFFECTIVE DATE JUNE 1, 1993
TARIFFS FOR SALE OF WATER
III. MONTHLY CHARGE FOR METER MAINTENANCE AND RENTAL
Regardless of meter diameter:           CFAF  380/month
IV.   METER CALIBRATION CHARGE
-    Meter diameter smaller than or equal to 30 mm:             CFAF 2,000
-    Meter diameter over 30 mm:                                 CFAF 5,000
V.    PENALTIES FOR LATE PAYMENT
-     For one bill overdue:                                     CFAF 1,000
-     For two or more bills overdue
* Meter diameter smaller than or equal to 30 mm:          CFAF 2,000
* Meter diameter over 30 mm:                              CFAF 5,300
MINISTER OF INDUSTRY,                                     MINISTER OF WATER
TRADE AND MINES
(stamp)                                                 (stamp)
/s/ Zephirin DIABRE                                    /s/ Seni Macaire NARE






ANNEX 7
68
Page 1
DRAFT
CONTRAT-PLAN
Between
The Government of Burkina Faso
and
Office National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement



69                              ANNEX 7
Page 2
CONTRAT-PLAN
The present contrat-plan is the first to be concluded between the
Burkina Faso Government and ONEA, a societe 6tatique.
The indicators contained in the contrat-plan reflect the
constraints of the general framework and ONEA's development objectives, while
at the same time offering the opportunity for gathering data as a basis for
computation.
I.    General covenants
Article 1 - Partners
The partners to the contrat-plan are the Burkina Faso Government,
represented by the Water Ministry, and Office National de l'Eau et de
l;Assainissement (ONEA), charged with the construction and exploitation of
water and sanitation infrastructures (liquid and solid waste treatment and
disposal) in urban and semi-urban areas.
Article 2 - Duration
This contrat-plan is concluded for a period of three years running
from July 1, 1993 to June 30, 1996. No later than May each year, the partners
will be required to submit a report to the monitoring committee containing
data for verification of the preceding year's indicators. Renewal of the
agreement shall require submission of a proposal by ONEA in January 1996.
Projections for indicators from 1996 onwards shall be based on data for the
years 1992 to 1995, available in April 1996.
Article 3 - Overall framework/Constraints on water sector development
Development of the water sector is characterized by an
increasingly severe water shortage resulting from the rapid rate of growth of
the urban population, and the lack of increase in available water resources,



ANNEX 7
70                                  Page 3
which are increasingly threatened by pollution. Moreover, the performance of
the PWS and Sanitation departments has not kept up with development of the
general framework, which has led to the deterioration of services in this
sector.
Following are the main thrusts of the policy to improve water
supply and sanitation in urban centers:
-     expansion of the legislative framework covering the PWS and
Sanitation sectors;
-     protection of available water resources and maximum efficiency of
exploitation;
-     reduction of water wastage;
-     making available of existing water resources, primarily for water
supply;
-     maximum efficiency of water distribution.  In the event of chronic
water shortage, public standpipes will receive priority;
-     application of Water Regulations [Rfglme de 1 'Eau] concerning
controls and priorities in the area of resource exploitation;
-     introduction of rationing arrangements to handle foreseeable water
shortages;
-     guarantee of potable water quality;
-     establishment of financial equilibrium within the sector,
particularly for ONEA;
-     increase in the sector's cash flow [capacltd d'autoflnancement],
particularly that of ONEA, and creation of a fund to finance new
projects;



ANNEX 7
71                                  Page 4
-     development of sanitation activities at all ONEA centers, to which
all payments of sanitation charges will be allocated in full;
-     increase in ONEA's productivity.
II.   Commitment bv ONEA
Article 4 - Exploitation and protection of water resources
ONEA undertakes to ensure maximum efficiency of exploitation of
the water resources available to it, and to cause measures to be taken for
their protection and conservation. To this end, it shall prepare, monitor and
enforce annual resource exploitation programs in all centers complying with
its requirements.
In addition, it shall oversee the exploitation of surface water
resources and groundwater resources (boreholes) by private individuals in
urban and semi-urban environments, once a framework of responsibilities has
been drawn up by the Water Ministry (see Article 18).
Borehole Rrotection indicator:
Number of boreholes observing
recommended flow
(1)   Borehole protection rate
Total number of boreholes in service
Article 5 - Output of PWS facilities
Output of the PWS facilities shall be continually upgraded until
an acceptable level is reached.
Indicator for output of facilities
Water volume billed
(2)   Total output of facilities
Gross pumping volume



72                             ANNEX 7
Page 5
Water volume billed
(3)   Distribution output
Water volume ex pumping station
Water volume ex pumping station
(4)   Production output
Pumping volume
(5)   Metering rate                  No. of nonoperational meters
Connection meters in service
Operating charges (net of depreciation)
(6)   Operating expenditure rate
Water sales
Article 6 - Maintenance
To achieve maximum efficiency of exploitation of the facilities,
ONEA undertakes to introduce a maintenance plan that should be operational by
April 30, 1994 at the latest.
Article 7 - Service to the public
The following table shows the numbers of private connections (to
meet programmed customer growth rates), standpipes, and standalone water
points planned by ONEA for the next three years:
1993           1994           1995
Private connections                    39,676          41,263         42,914
Standpipes                              1,020          1,042          1,145
Standalone water points                  34              34             60
In centers where available exploitable water resources already
meet water needs, ONEA undertakes to promote private connections.



73                             ANNEX 7
Page 6
Article 8 - Water quality
Action shall be taken to improve water quality and to make quality
control mechanisms more effective. For this purpose, ONEA shall prepare a
report no later than March 31 each year on the various analyses performed
(bacteriological and physico-chemical). The benchmark standards to be used
are those recommended by WHO.
Water guality indicator:
Number of tests meeting standards
[dans les normes]
(7)   Water quality rate
Number of tests conducted
Number of tests conducted
(8)   Test performance rate
Number of tests planned
The water quality control program shall be submitted no later than
November 30 each year, and shall define the number and regularity of water
quality tests and specify sampling sites.
Article 9 - Investments
ONEA shall plan investments for the new centers and extensions for
existing centers, provided that a financial rate of return is assured and
adequate water resources are available. Priority areas of investment are:
-     increase in exploitable water resources
-     increase in capacity and technical output
-     increase in service rate
-     guarantee of renewals of facilities
-     guarantee of water quality



ANNEX 7
Page 7
ONEA shall make every effort to establish an investment fund to
increase its cash flow [capaclt6 d'autoflnancement] for future projects. The
amount of annual allocations will be directly linked to net income for the
year.
ONEA may in no case finance investments that are not linked to
improvement of its assets or to an increase in water resources, and shall not
make financial or material contributions or provide expertise for projects
unrelated to its activities. It shall also refrain from all types of
participation in other companies.
ONEA undertakes to achieve a self-financing rate [taux
d'autofinancement] of lOX in fiscal 1996. This self-investment rate shall
represent an annual average measured over a period of three years and shall be
computed on the basis of increases in fixed assets subject to depreciation.
ONEA undertakes to submit an updated long-term (7-year) investment
plan to the Water Ministry no later than January of each year.
Article 10 - Sanitation
Following the establishment of its sanitation department, ONEA
undertakes to implement a phased program to involve all of its centers in its
sanitation activities.
The proceeds of payments for sanitation services shall gradually
be made available for the operation of those services until full coverage is
reached in 1995.
Indicator of allocation of sanitation Dayments:
Sanitation service expenditure
(9)   Sanitation absorption rate
Payments for sanitation services



75                               ANNEX 7
Page 8
ArtLcle 11 - Customer management
ONEA undertakes to improve the quality of its commercial
management in general and customer relations in particular. Actions to be
taken in this area are listed below:
-     improve metering and reading on private connections
-     improve billing and collection procedures
-     reorganize the follow-up of arrears, in particular through
quarterly summaries of customer accounts
-     substantially raise the level of familiarity with computerized
billing and customer account management systems
-     improve customer service:  equipping of windows and agencies,
staff training in customer relations, procedures for handling
complaints, consolidated billings for customers with multiple
connections, etc.
organize a sensitization campaign to alert the public to the
dangers of wastage and vandalism
clear all unrecoverable customer accounts.
Customer credit indicator
Private customer account balance
(10)  Private customer portfolio ratio
One-twelfth of annual billings
Bill collection indicator
(11)  Collection rate net                   Payments
of administrative costs
Billings



76                                ANNEX 7
Page 9
Article 12 - Pricing
ONEA shall continue to apply the pricing policy for the period
1992-1995 approved in Council of Ministers on April 24, 1992.
It shall submit a new draft water and sanitation pricing policy no
later than June 30, 1995, if the in-depth review shows this to be necessary.
If not, a tariff formula shall be used (see annexed specifications).
Article 13 - Revaluation of assets
ONEA shall cause a legal revaluation of its assets to be performed
no later than December 31, 1994.
Article 14 - Financial equilibrium
Strict application of the covenants of the present contrat-plan
will help ONEA to achieve financial equilibrium by 1995.
Profitability indicator:
Net oper. income net of debt interest
(12)  Financial rate of return
Net value of average revalued assets
Should future statements of account show a profit, such profit
shall be allocated in its entirety to the investment fund to be established by
ONEA.
Article 15 - Personnel
ONEA undertakes to pursue its present human resources policy
(hiring freeze, attrition, other than in cases of force majeure, etc.).
Staff groductivity indicators:
PCs + ((St.pipes+wtr.pts) x 4)
(13)  PWS staff productivity ratio
Staff - (San.staff+assets & AWs)



77                               ANNEX 7
Page 10
Km of system
(14)  Network/employee ratio
PWS staff
ONEA undertakes to achieve an acceptable ratio of personnel
expenditure to turnover.
Personnel expenditure indicator:
Wage bill + indirect costs
(14)  Expenditure ratio
Turnover
ONEA shall submit a workable staff motivation system by the end of
1993, encompassing new pay and grading arrangements.
Article 16 - Internal audits and management information system
ONEA shall perform regular financial, accounting, and procedural
audits of all its centers. It shall install a management information system
no later than December 31, 1994, comprising management charts, cost accounting
based on the general accounts, and a reliable and regular system for
monitoring operating costs, in order to determine the costs of each service
provided by the different departments, as well as cost prices and sale prices
per m3 of water per center.
Article 17 - Organization chart and human resource management
With the establishment, no later than September 30, 1993, of a new
organization chart based on the conclusions of the various studies, ONEA will
initiate a true system of human resource management, with job descriptions,
management charts, career development plans, a viable training plan, etc.



78                              ANNEX 7
Page 11
Training indicator:
Intern hours per year
(16)  Training rate
Staff
III. Commitment by the Government
Article 18 - Exploitation of water resources by private individuals for urban
PNS
Under the present contrat-plan the Government undertakes to
enforce regulations whereby ONEA has the exclusive right to use the water
pumping facilities. This inventory [sic - initial reference to Inventory
moved In this update to next paragraph - Translator] will identify by name
each of the boreholes for which the Government has granted exceptional
operating authority subject to the installation of a meter by ONEA. At the
same time, the Government undertakes to enact the necessary measures to ensure
that prior authorization shall in future be obtained before any new borehole
is exploited.
ONEA shall take inventory of all boreholes in urban and semi-urban
areas no later than December 31, 1993, and [shall submit] a pricing proposal
for the exploitation of groundwater by private individuals. The Government
undertakes to make arrangements for its adoption and application (of the
pricing system] no later than December 31, 1994.
Article 19 - Taxation
The Government undertakes to put in place a system to reimburse
ONEA for customs duties and charges on equipment for extensions and renewals
and on imports of chemicals with effect from January 1, 1994 (see annexed list
of equipment).



79                              ANNEX 7
Page 12
The same applies to taxes on profits for allocation to investment
funds.
Article 20 S- N   sector development policy
The government undertakes not to require ONEA to make investments for
the establishment of new centers, if studies have shown that they would not
show a financial return and hte local population is less than 10,000
inhabitants.
Article 21 - Collection by ONEA on billings to Government and the
Etablissements publics
Government consumption
The Government's annual potable water consumption shall be
estimated on October 31 each year on the basis of actual consumption over a
12-month period (from July 1 of the preceding year to June 30 of the current
year). On this basis, four equal bills shall be prepared. ONEA is to receive
payment of the amount of each bill not later than March 31, June 30, September
30, and December 31 of the consumption year.
A fifth bill (or credit [avoir]) will be prepared on March 31
following the consumption year concerned, showing the outstanding balance,
which is to be paid by May 31, or two months after its submission.
Etablissements publics
ONEA is authorized to shut off water supply to any public
enterprise or dtablissement public whose cumulative payments are more than
three months overdue. Service will not be restored until the arrears have
been paid in full.



80                               ANNEX 7
Page 13
By way of exception, this authorization shall not apply to the
establishments named on the annexed list.   The Government is bound by
agreement to substitute for those establishments should they default on their
payment obligations.
Article 22 - Onlending of grants and loans
The Water Ministry will include ONEA in all negotiations and
meetings concerning donor-financed urban PWS Supply and Sanitation projects.
Should the rate of exchange fluctuation exceed 5X, the Government
undertakes to compensate ONEA or to authorize an increase in water charges, to
enable it to cover increases in reimbursements of loans and grants onlent by
the Government to ONEA. A decision on coverage of these exchange rate
fluctuation risks shall be taken by the Government by the end of 1993.
Article 23 - Government contribution to ONEA's financial restructuring
The Government will assume responsibility for all ONEA's arrears
to SONABEL incurred through March 31, 1992, in the amount of CFAF 1.8 billion.
Article 24 - Personnel management
The General Manager of ONEA has full authority over all aspects of
personnel management, including matters related to seconded staff. He shall
be at liberty to decide on all recruitments, promotions, penalties and
dismissals within the framework of current labor legislation. He shall also
be free to appoint his close co-workers, with a view to successful achievement
of the objectives of this contrat-plan.
t/    This list and the maximum potential annual amounts shall be submitted
for IDA's approval before the contract is signed.



81                              ANNEX 7
Page 14
To ensure continuation of the actions initiated within the
framework of ONEA's restructuring, the Water Ministry will provide supporting
action to ensure stability of the management team.
Article 25 - Sanitation
The Ministry undertakes to seek a decision in Council of
Ministers, no later than 1993, on the responsibilities of the various agencies
active in the sanitation sector. Within this framework, the Ministry will
define its own responsibilities and those of ONEA.
Artclel 26 - Water resources
The Government undertakes to perform a scientific assessment of
water resources and to set up the various monitoring bodies required.
The Water Ministry undertakes to submit the rationing plan
proposed by ONEA for adoption by the assembly or authority concerned.
IV.   MONITORING AND EVALUATION COMMITTEE
Article 27 - Monitoring Committee
Performance of the present agreement will be monitored by a
committee comprising the following members:
-     three members appointed by the Water Ministry, or one member
appointed by each of the ministries representing the Government on
ONEA's Board of Directors;
-     three members representing ONEA, appointed by its General Manager,
including one SYNTEA member;
-     two observers appointed by each party to the contrat-plan.
The monitoring committee shall meet once a year (July or August),
and shall draw up a report evaluating the performance of each party.



82                            ANNEX 7
Page 15
The report shall include the performance indicators for the
preceding year, and a progress report on each article of the contrat-plan. It
shall be transmitted officially to ONEA's Board of Directors for inclusion in
its agenda.
Should the prevailing economic, financial, or social conditions
alter in such a way as to affect performance of the present agreement, the
monitoring committee will be required to hold a special meeting, [? words
omltted - Translator] which will be recorded in an amendment duly signed by
the partners.
Done in Ouagadougou, this ..... day of ....., 1993.
For ONEA                      For the Government of Burkina Faso
The Water Ministry
The Ministry of Planning and Finance
The Ninistry of Commerce, Industry, and Nining



84                              ANNEX 7
Page 17
Number of boreholes observing
recommended flow
(1)  Borehole protection rate
Total number of boreholes in service
(a) - The borehole protection rate is a measurement indicating that
activities to determine the maximum pumping volume have been
carefully monitored, and that exploitation of the boreholes has
been monitored without any risk of overexploitation [sic].
The numerator of the fraction represents the number of boreholes
in service for which the volume pumped is lower than the
exploitable volume originally estimated without having damaged the
borehole [sic].
The total number of boreholes in service is all those in service
in a given calendar year.
(b) - The resource exploitation program contains estimates of
exploitable quantities and flows. At present, center managers are
required to report monthly on the dynamic levels of each borehole
in service. The ONEA hydrogeologist regularly establishes the
dynamic level and the maximum flow to be respected. The rate is
computed using those estimates and the operating data from the
technical reports.
1993        1994         1995
Borehole protection rate       65%           75%          90%
Water volume billed
(2)   Total output of facilities
Gross pumping volume



ANNEX 7
85                                Page 18
Water volume billed
(3)   Distribution output
Water volume ex pumping station
Water volume ex pumping station
(4)   Production output
Pumping volume
No. of nonoperational meters
(5)   Metering rate
Connection meters in service
Operating expenses (excl. amortization)
(6)   Operating expenditure rate
Water and sanitation revenues
(b) - The volume of water billed is obtained from billings, and the
different volumes of water pumped, produced, etc. from the monthly
technical reports.
The number of nonoperational meters will be determined from the
meter readers' cards, and the number of connection meters in
service from the centers' reports.
The operating expenditure rate comprises all water and sanitation
operating expenses, including overhead, but excluding amortization
expenses and the tax on earnings. Water and sanitation revenues
exclude receipts from connection works.
Data on operating expenses may be obtained from the accounting
service, and on water and sanitation revenues from customer
management.



90                            ANNEX 7
Page 24
Wage bill + indirect costs
(15)  Expenditure ratio
Turnover
(a) - The expenditure ratio indicates whether the company is
overstaffed, or whether the level of personnel expenditure is
disproportionate in relation to the company's other expenditures.
(b) - In addition to gross wages and employer contributions, the
numerator includes allowances, medical costs, clothing costs, and
training costs.
1993        1994         1995
Personnel expenditure ratio    30X          25X          20X
Intern hours per year
(16)  Training rate
Staff
(a) - The training rate indicates efforts made by the company to upgrade
the skills of its staff through training.
(b) - The data are taken from the Human Resources Management report.
1993        1994         1995
Training rate             35          37           40
(Training hours/
ONEA employee)



91                          ANNEX 7
Page 25
Annex concerning Article 19
EguiRment for extensions and renewals: chemicals
-     pipes and accessories
-     faucets
-     standpipe equipment
-     meters, pumps, motors and spare parts
-     chemicals for water treatment
-     pumping infrastructure
-     equipment to measure and regulate flow, pressure, and dosing
Annex concerning Article 21
List of subscribers whose water supplY may not be cut off by ONEA
Government, specifically:
-     Ministries
-     State hospitals and clinics
-     The government-owned homes of certain political figures (the President,
the Prime Minister, the President of the Assembly, Supreme Court
Justices)
-     Military facilities (including fire stations)
-     Airports
Industrial facilities:
-     SONABEL (production center)
Communes:
Commune clinics
Commune markets
Public toilets
Other:
Fire hydrants



92                           ANNEX 7
Page 26
TARIFF REVISION FORMULA
Pn - Pn-i x 0.10 + 0.20 Mn + 0.20 Sn + 0.20 En + 0.20 An + 0.10 Fn
(CFAF)                            __
Mn-i      Sn-i       En-i      An-i      Fn-1
in which:
Pn    :    Price per m3 of water to be charged during the year concerned
Pn-1  :    Price per m3 of water charged during the preceding year
Mn    :    Represents average taken from the industrial products index
published by the statistics office of Burkina (or, if not
available, by the French statistical service) at the end of the
preceding year
Mn-1  :    Represents that average at the start of the preceding year
Sn    :    Represents the wage at the end of the preceding year received by a
team composed of one Bi, one B2, and four C2 employees (ONEA
grading system)
Sn-i        Represents that wage at the start of the preceding year
En    :    Represents the average price per high-voltage kWh at the end of
the preceding year
En-i  :    Represents that average price at the start of the preceding year
An    :    Represents the amount of amortization allowances for the year
concerned
An-i  :    Represents that amount for the preceding year
Fn    :    Represents the amount of financial costs for the year concerned
Fn-l  :    Represents that amount for the preceding year.
The above revision formula will be applied when the variation
exceeds 5%. To this end, a specific file will be prepared and submitted to
the Council of Ministers for review prior to application.



93                            ANNEX 7
Page 27
Summary of tariff policy approved in Council of Ministers
on April 24, 1992
Final product              Tariffs   Tariffs   Tariffs    Tariffs    Tariffs
1991      1992        1993       1994        1995
Gross vater                  186        194        202         211        220
Potable water                90         107        127         151        180
- standpipes
- connections:
tranche
0 -  10 m3                113       123         138        147         158
11 -  25 m3                120       158         209        276         374
26 -  50 m3                250       312         390        486         603
51 - 100 m3                320       376         441        517         603
>100 m3               350        402        461         529         603
number of tranches        5         5           5           5          3
- water points              46         54         64          76          90
Customer management/
charge                        *         380        380         380        380
A Depending on meter diameter.



94                         ANNEX 7
Page 28
TOTAL INVESTMENT
CFAF 106
YEAR
ONEA             External              Total
1993                635                3,210              3,845
1994                820                4,379              5,199
1995                830               11,295              12,125
1996                845               12,900              13,745
1997                850               10,800              11,650
1998                815                4,560               5,375
1999                845                3,580              4,395
1_2000              950                1,550              2,500
|_TOTAL            6,590               52,244              58,834



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1 9 9 3            1 9 9 4                     1 9 9 5                      1 9 9 6
O N D  J F MA M J J A S ON D  J F MA M J J A S O N D  J F M A M J J A S O N D
En      i rornrAssessment               - 
Fwn D.Bign Sbady & B docume     - -  - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - -
Tcdwa A     nce                      - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - -    
CiWodw                       - - -
U'
z
Xo



