Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2519 BUR
Development Credit Agreement
(Ouagadougou Water Supply Engineering Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 15, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2519 BUR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1993, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
October, 1992, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve an adjustment of the Borrower's water supply sector (hereinafter referred to 
as "the Program");
(B)
the Borrower has declared its commitment to the execution of the Program, 
and has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(C)
the Project will be carried out by the Office National de l'Eau et de 
l'Assainissement (ONEA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to ONEA the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in this Agreement;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Francaise de Developpement 
(CFD) a grant (the CFD Grant) in an amount equivalent to $2,900,000 to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the CFD 
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CFD; and 
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and ONEA pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Financing 
Agreement;
(b)
"Performance Contract" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and ONEA pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Performance 
Contract and any new performance contract; and 
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
Page  3
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2003, and ending February 15, 2033. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2013 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. ONEA is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
ONEA to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, shall take or cause to 
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ONEA to carry out the Project, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the 
carrying out of the Project by ONEA. 
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall pass on the proceeds of the Credit to ONEA, 
Page  4
under a financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ONEA, on the 
same repayment terms as those of the Credit, and under such other terms and conditions 
as shall have been approved by the Association; including, but not limited to, 
provisions to the following effect: 
(i)
ONEA shall assume all Project-related obligations of the Borrower 
or ONEA 
under this Agreement, or arising thereunder; and
 
(ii)
ONEA shall carry out its obligations under the Financing Agreement 
with due 
diligence and efficiency, and shall promptly inform the 
Borrower and the 
Association of any Condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with 
the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, 
or the performance by ONEA 
of its obligations arising under this Agreement or 
the Financing 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into a performance contract with ONEA, covering 
a three-year period beginning on July 1, 1993, and on terms and conditions which shall 
be satisfactory to the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financing Agreement and 
the Performance Contract in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Financing Agreement or the Performance Contract, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ONEA.
Section 3.04. (a) For purposes of Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
have an Environmental Assessment (EA) prepared in consultation with affected groups 
and other interested parties, and transmitted to the Association, for review, not 
later than sixty days after it is received by the Borrower. 
(b)
To this end, the Borrower shall ensure that: (i) such affected groups and 
other interested parties shall be provided with such information as they may require, 
and in a timely manner and in such form and language as to make such information 
accessible to, and meaningful for, such parties; including: (A) prior to preparation 
of the EA, a summary of its purposes and objectives; and (B) after the preparation of 
the EA, a summary of its  conclusions; (ii) such affected groups and other parties  
shall be duly invited to express their views, and such views duly taken into account 
and reflected in the EA; and (iii) copy of the EA shall be made available at a public 
place accessible to all such parties for their review and comment.
Section 3.05. For purposes of Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall have a 
resettlement plan prepared, giving details of the proposed magnitude, and the 
provisional time table and budget, for the proposed resettlement. Such resettlement 
plan shall be prepared in close consultation with the affected persons or groups of 
persons, and with due regard to their socio-cultural values, living standards and 
socio-economic conditions, and shall be transmitted to the Association, for review, 
not later than sixty
days after it is received by the Borrower.
Section 3.06. Pursuant to Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall submit quarterly and annual reports on the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, and the status of compliance by the 
Borrower and ONEA with their respective obligations under the Financing Agreement and 
the Performance Contract. Such reports shall be submitted not later than one month 
after the end of the relevant quarter, or three months after the end of the relevant 
annual period, as the case may be.                       
Page  5
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ONEA to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of ONEA. 
(b)
The Borrower shall cause ONEA to:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
ONEA to: 
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.  
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause ONEA:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
and 
Page  6
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
technical practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
ONEA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Financing Agreement or the Performance Contract. 
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that ONEA will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Financing Agreement or the Performance Contract.
(d)
The Decrees establishing ONEA (Decrees No. 85/387 and 388/CNR/PRES/EAU of 
July 22, 1985) shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as 
to affect materially and adversely the ability of ONEA to perform any of its 
obligations under the Financing Agreement or the Performance Contract.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ONEA or for the suspension of 
its operations. 
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:  
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms thereof, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
hereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the 
Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to performany of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following  additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (a), (c), (d) or (e) of Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur; and 
(c)
any event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Page  7
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Financing Agreement has been duly executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and ONEA;
(b)
the Performance Contract between the Borrower and ONEA has been duly 
signed;
(c)
the Borrower has selected independent auditors, acceptable to the 
Association, to audit ONEA's accounts in accordance with the requirements of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement; and
(d)
the CFD Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered, and all 
conditions precedent to the effectiveness thereof have been fulfilled, except for any 
condition pertaining to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Financing Agreement 
and the Performance Contract have each been duly authorized or ratified, as the case 
may be, by the Borrower and ONEA, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and ONEA 
in accordance with their respective terms.
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower:
Ministcre des Finances et du Plan
B.P. 7050
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Telex:
5555 SEGEGOUV
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  8
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Yara Thomas Kambou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Studies                    2,100,000      100%
(2)   Civil works                   50,000      100%
(3)   Vehicles and                 100,000      100%
      Equipment
(4)   Technical assistance         300,000      100%
(5)   Training                      50,000      100%
(6)   Operating costs              150,000      100%
(7)   Unallocated                  250,000
                                 _________
         TOTAL                   3,000,000
                                 =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" means the 
incremental operating costs arising under the Project on account of: (a) local 
contractual staff salaries and allowances; (b) office supplies and utilities; and (c) 
maintenance of vehicles and fuel.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
Page  9
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to finance detailed engineering and other 
project preparation activities for the proposed Ouagadougou Water Supply Project, and 
to strengthen the capacity of ONEA to undertake the implementation of such proposed 
Ouagadougou Water Supply Project.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives: 
Part A:
Studies
 
1.
Preparation of engineering designs and bidding documents for the proposed 
Ouagadougou Water Supply Project.
2.
Preparation of an Environment Assessment in respect of the proposed Ouagadougou 
Water Supply Project, including an enviromental mitigation plan, a resettlement plan 
for affected persons or groups of persons, and a review of any riparian issues 
involved in the proposed construction of a dam on the Nakambe River.
Part B:
Institutional Support
 
1.
Establishment of a unit within ONEA to be responsible for overall coordination 
of implementation of the Project, including the matters referred to in Sections 3.04, 
3.05 and 3.06 of this Agreement.
2.
Construction of offices for the unit referred to in Part B.1 of the Project.
 
3.
Provision of technical assistance and training, and acquisition of equipment and 
vehicles, to strengthen the capacity of ONEA to execute and manage large investment 
projects.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
(a)
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(b)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when the contract is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(c)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Page  10
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 (a) hereof, goods manufactured in Burkina Faso may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, and civil works, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $60,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association review or 
Page  11
approval requirements shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor 
to the employment of individuals, to single-source hiring of firms, to assignments of 
a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Association, and to amendments of 
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above. 
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of 76,000,000 CFA Francs 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
Page  12
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
