Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3450 
Operation Name 
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT IV 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (35%); Health (20%); Sub-
national government administration (15%); Other social services 
(20%); General energy sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P106502 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 
Date PID Prepared 
November 12, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 20, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 27, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Cape Verde’s performance in social indicators outpaces most African nations. The country’s good 
economic performance (GDP per capita of US$ 2,100 in 2005) and successful public programs 
increased access to education and healthcare, paving the way to Cape Verde’s graduation to middle-
income status in January 2008. Cape Verde is considered to be on track to meet the MDGs due to its 
high growth and strong performance on several social indicators. Poverty has declined 8 percentage 
points between 2001 and 2006
1
,
and the human development index has increased from 0.63 in 1990 to 
0.72 in 2003.  Adult literacy rates are high as 79 percent (97 percent among the youth) and life 
expectancy at birth (69) is the third highest in Africa.  Political openness has accompanied this 
economic and social progress.  Since the adoption of a multi-party system in 1991, there have been 
three national elections and two orderly changes in government.  A free press and media further 
support the building of an open society.  The last presidential and legislative elections took place in 
early 2006. 
Cape Verde faces a number of challenges.  With the country’s graduation in 2008 to middle income 
country, pressures on access to concessional external financing may arise. With regard to remittances, 
as the income gap and the ties with the diaspora decrease, remittances may decline over time.  
Furthermore, the country is highly dependent on oil imports (including for water desalination, which 
accounted for about 75 percent of water production by 2003) which, in a context of a continued 
increase in prices may cause some fiscal risks. In addition, income inequality has risen and as rural 
populations flee entrenched poverty, 
urbanization is putting pressure on basic services.
 
Finally, the 
capacity of the environment to support large-scale expansion in tourism, industry and construction 
may be at risk if not adequately managed. 
The PRSC operations are central to the CAS, accounting for about 60 percent of the IDA 14. This 
emphasis on programmatic lending is consistent with Cape Verde’s performance in implementing the 
previous CAS, its level of institutional, economic and political development, its strong and sustained 
performance in recent years, and the recommendations of core diagnostic work (PER, CFAA, CPAR). 
The CAS deems the PRSC to be the preferred lending instrument to (a) provide predictable resource 
1
These estimates are based on changes over time between 2001 and 2006 in an asset index of well-being, with corrections for 
changes in inequality over time. 
Page  2
flows, particularly important gi
ven Cape Verde’s reliance on donor financing; (b) strengthen public 
administration and public expenditure management systems, with spill-over benefits to non-IDA 
resources; and (c) harmonize donors and reduce the potential distortions and transaction costs of 
external assistance. IDA’s assistance strategy is also in line with the GPRSP priorities. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed PRSC-4 is a one-off operation that aims to support the last year of implementation of the 
Government’s Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy, as presented in the Growth and Poverty 
Reduction Strategy Paper (GPRSP), and to contribute to Cape Verde’s effort to attain its Millenium 
Development Goals (MDGs). The proposed PRSC-4 builds on results achieved under the first series and 
will continue to engage the Bank in a policy and technical dialogue in three of the five pillars of the 
GPRSP, already supported by the first PRSC cycle, based on the division of labor with other IDA and 
donor projects. The three pillars to be supported are the following: 
(a) 
promote good governance –especially effectiveness and equity– through reforms in public 
expenditure management, civil service and decentralization;  
(b) 
develop human capital, with a focus on health; and 
(c) 
strengthen the effectiveness and sustainability of the social protection system. 
 
Continuing the approach of the three previous PRSCs, this fourth operation is prepared in close 
coordination with other budget support partners, following a Memorandum of Understanding signed 
with the Government.  The design of the proposed PRSC-4, embedded in a 3 year matrix agreed with the 
Authorities and donors, was prepared under extensive consultation with the various stakeholders under 
the Government’s leadership. This consultative and harmonized approach minimizes the burden on the 
limited Government capacity and ensures Government ownership of the supported reforms.   
3. Preliminary description 
 
The Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-4) will support the last year of implementation of 
Cape Verde’s first Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRSP). As the second GPRSP is still 
under development, this one-tranche operation will be a transitory operation between the first and the 
second series.  The financial support provided through the fourth PRSC will further narrow the gap 
between the cost of implementing key elements of the GPRSP and the resources available from the 
Government’s own domestic revenues and other donor support.  The policy dialogue and a results-based 
framework under PRSC-4 focus on the following pillars of the GPRSP:  (i) to promote good 
governance; (ii) to develop human capital in the areas of education and health; and (iii) to improve the 
effectiveness and sustainability of the social protection system. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
PRSC 4 falls under the DPL OP BP 8.60, and as for PRSC 1, 2, and 3, and therefore no environmental 
assessment is required. Due diligence and pro-activity on environment policies have been carried out in 
collaboration with the Spanish and Austrian cooperations which targets their budget support towards 
environmental issues. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
Page  3
International Development Association (IDA) 
6.0 
 Total 
6.0 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Manuela Francisco 
Title: Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-8209 
Fax:  
Email: mfrancisco@worldbank.org
 
