                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR0000980



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-44340)



                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT


                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.2 MILLION
                      (US$ 10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE

                                    FOR A

             FOURTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT



                                 June 29, 2009




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate as of June 26, 2009)

                Currency Unit = Escudo (CVE)
                    US$ 1.00 = CVE 78.5

                       FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1 ­ December 31



            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFDB       African Development Bank
ADR        Alternative Dispute Resolution
APR        Annual Performance Review
BDEO       Base de Dados Estatisticos e Operacionais
           (Statistical Data Base)
BSG        Budget Support Group
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Review
CWIQ       Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DECRP      Documento Estratégico de Crescimento e Redução da Pobreza
           (Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy), also referred to with
           the English acronym GPRSP
DGP        General Directorate for Planning
ESW        Economic and Sector Work
EU         European Union
FMS        Financial Management System
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GPRSP      Document for Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction (PRSP)
HIV/AIDS   Human Immune-deficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficient
           Syndrome
IDA        International Development Association
IFMIS      Integrated Financial Management and Information System
IMF        International Monetary Fund
INPS       Instituto Nacional da Previdencia Social (National Institute for
           Social Protection)
JSAN       Joint Staff A Advisory Note
MCA        Millennium Challenge Account
MDGs       Millenium Development Goals
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MOFP       Ministry of Finance and Planning
MOU        Memorandum of Understanding
MTEF       Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NGOs   Non Governmental Organizations
NOSI   Nucleo Operacional du Sociedade da Informacao (Operational
       Nucleus for Information Systems)
PDO    Project Development Objective
PEM    Public Expenditure Management
PER    Public Expenditure Review
PFM    Public Financial Management
PRSC   Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSI    Policy Support Instrument
STAD   Secretariado Tecnico de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento (Technical
       Secretariat for Development Assistance)
TdC    Tribunal de Contas (Independent General Audit Office)
TF     Trust Fund
TTL    Task Team Leader
VAT    Value-added Tax




             Vice President:   Obiageli K. Ezekwesili (AFRVP)
          Country Director:    Habib Fetini (AFCF1)
            Sector Director:   Sudhir Shetty (AFTPM)
           Sector Manager:     Antonella Bassani (AFTP4)
         Task Team Leader:     Manuela Francisco (AFTP4)
       ICR Primary Author:     Karen Hendrixson (Consultant)
                                       CAPE VERDE
                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
                                AND RESULTS REPORT (ICRR)



                                                  CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 18
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 22
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 23
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 27
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 28

Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 29
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 31
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 33
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 34
MAP # 33383
A. Basic Information
                                                                          POVERTY
Country:                Cape Verde              Program Name:             REDUCTION
                                                                          SUPPORT CREDIT IV
Program ID:             P106502                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-44340
ICR Date:               06/29/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF CAPE
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          VERDE
Original Total
                        XDR 6.2M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 6.2M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date                Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/20/2007     Effectiveness:                              09/30/2008
Appraisal:            04/17/2008     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             07/08/2008     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2008       12/31/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                         Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem        No                     Quality at Entry        None


                                                i
Program at any time                                (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                               Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  45                    45
Health                                                             15                    15
Other social services                                              10                    10
Sub-national government administration                             30                    30


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                             17                   17
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                              16                   16
Managing for development results                                    17                   17
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                    33                   33
procurement
Social safety nets                                                  17                   17

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili          Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Habib M. Fetini                     Madani M. Tall
Sector Manager:            Antonella Bassani                   Antonella Bassani
Program Team Leader:       Manuela Francisco                   Manuela Francisco
ICR Team Leader:           Manuela Francisco
ICR Primary Author:        Karen L. Hendrixson


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 (i) Promote good governance: through public expenditure management reforms, civil
service reform and decentralization, and improvement in the monitoring and evaluation
system.



                                                 ii
  (ii)Develop human capital, with a focus on health: strengthen capacity to deal with non-
communicable diseases, improve management of health human resources, and increase
financial sustainability of health services with special attention to contributory schemes.
  (iii) Improve social protection: decentralize and rationalize service delivery, improve
management and planning instruments by implementing the social protection strategy,
and support the implementation of the National Action Plan for disabled people.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
Not applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target   Formally      Actual Value
                                              Values (from     Revised       Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval        Target       Completion or
                                              documents)       Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :      See Table 1 in the Main report.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                 Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                              Values (from                   Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                          Revised
                                               approval                     Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                    Target Years
Indicator 1 :      See Table 1 in the Main report.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      See Table 1 in the Main report.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %


                                                iii
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                               Actual
        Date ISR
No.                         DO                  IP         Disbursements
        Archived
                                                           (USD millions)
  1    12/16/2008       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              9.46


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                       iv
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Concept Review1

Despite its small size (population around half a million) and remote archipelago nature (10
islands on the west coast of Africa), Cape Verde's solid economic performance (GDP per capita
of US$2,705 in 2007) and successful public programs had increased access to education and
health care paving the way for Cape Verde's graduation from least developed status in January
2008. Poverty declined from 37 to 27 percent between 2001 and 2007, 2 and the human
development index increased from 0.72 in 1990 to 0.75 in 2006. Other positive characteristics
included high adult literacy rates (approximately 84 percent in 2006) and the third highest life
expectancy at birth (71) in Africa. The country was considered to be on track to meet the MDGs
by 2015 owing to Cape Verde's high growth and strong performance on several social
indicators.3

This economic and social progress was accompanied by political openness, including the
adoption of a multi-party system in 1991, followed by three national elections and two orderly
changes in government, and a free press and media. Cape Verde's strong economic performance
and good governance attracted sizeable inflows of external finance for investment and
development. The country also signed a compact with the US Millenium Challenge Corporation
(MCC) in 2005, providing grant financing over five years of around US$110 million.

Nonetheless, Cape Verde's overall economic progress masks important geographic variations.
Rural areas generally lag behind national averages, and the more isolated rural islands (such as
Fogo, Brava, and Santo Antão) have significantly higher rates of poverty. Moreover, rural
poverty in these isolated islands is more entrenched owing to high transport costs, limited access
to quality education and health care, isolation due to bad roads, and low agricultural productivity.

In order to sustain economic growth, alleviate these inequalities and enable the poor to engage in
the opportunities made possible by the country's economic growth, the Government of Cape
Verde developed an integrated set of poverty interventions. These measures were set forth in
Cape Verde's Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (GPRSP, subsequently known as
GPRSP-I), which was completed in November 2004. To support the GPRSP-I, the Bank
developed over 2004-07 a series of three one-tranche Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSC-
1-3). This series of operations was implemented in the context of a harmonized and coordinated
budgetary support effort with Cape Verde's other key development partners (this harmonized
effort is discussed below in Section 2.2 "Major Factors Affecting Implementation").


1
  Preparation of the operation started in Q2 CY07 and, while all prior actions were implemented by end CY07, the
operation was appraised in April 2008 and submitted for Board approval in July 2008 due to lack of IDA resources
in FY08.
2
  These estimates are based on changes over time between 2001 and 2006 in an asset index of well-being, with
corrections for changes in inequality over time.
3
  MDG education targets have already largely been met, and health indicators are on track, with the exception of
immunization rates where more efforts are needed. Meeting the provision of water and sanitation will entail
significant investment, but urbanization will facilitate meeting this goal.


                                                       1
Strong economic growth and important social gains were made under PRSC-1-3. 4 Annual
average GDP growth was an estimated 8 percent from 2005-2007, and unemployment fell to
18.3 percent in 2007, down from 24.4 percent in 2005. Inflation reached 5.4 percent in 2006, but
dropped to an estimated 4.4 percent in 2007. Fiscal policy was consistent with macroeconomic
sustainability and debt sustainability. Significant policy reforms were enacted, including an
overhaul of the non-contributory pension scheme, which enabled an increase in the number of
beneficiaries, and a revision of the Local Finance Law, leading to an increase in central
Government transfers to the local level. A number of important social gains were also made,
including, inter alia, improved service delivery for the poor through improvements in
infrastructure (e.g., restoration of houses and building of schools), and expansion of access to
basic services such as primary education. 5

Despite these gains, Cape Verde still faced a number of challenges as this prior series of
operations drew to a close. The country remained highly dependent on remittances from the
Cape Verdean Diaspora (accounting for 9.2 percent of GDP in 2007). Agriculture (accounting
for 5.6 percent of GDP in 2007) was severely constrained by the scarcity of water, lack of
rainfall, soil type, and problems with inter-island means of reliable transport. Industrial growth
was constrained by high factor costs and an absence of economies of scale. The country also
remains highly dependent on oil imports (including for water desalination, which accounts for
about 75 percent of the water supply). Moreover, despite the country's notable economic and
social gains, income inequality had risen and rural-to-urban migration to flee entrenched poverty
was putting pressure on basic services. Finally, there was a potential risk of environmental
damage if large-scale tourism, industry, and construction were not adequately managed.

Furthermore, some of the ongoing reforms in the country, some of which supported by the first
series of PRSCs and the PRSC-4, were complex and lengthy (as noted by the authorities in
Annex 4). They required consensus across many stakeholders, and were subject to political
interference at the times of elections. Moreover, some of the laws that supported the reforms
required approval of two-thirds of the seats.6 In addition, lack of institutional capacity in some
areas, and high turnover of senior officials reduced the pace of reforms.

It was in this context that the PRSC-4 was developed as a stand-alone operation to both
contribute to Cape Verde's efforts to reach the MDGs and to support the last year of the GPRSP-
I implementation as the GPRSP-II was concluded by end May 2008 and this operation was
approved by the Board on July 8, 2008.7 PRSC-4 was a single tranche credit of SDR 6.2 million
(US$10 million equivalent), available upon credit effectiveness (August 2008). As such it both
bridged two series of operations ­ PRSC-1-3, in support of the GPRSP-I, and the PRSC-5-7,
which is being designed to support the GPRSP-II ­ and enabled the policy dialogue between the
4
  Discussed in the ICRR for PRSC1-3.
5
  Other significant reforms include an expansion in early education; a reduction in the percentage of teachers without
pedagogical qualification; the opening of new early childhood development centers; the introduction of new
insurance schemes for potentially vulnerable groups; the establishment of entities for the defense of children's
rights; and a reduction in regional disparities in the number of doctors.
6
  The party in power does not hold two-third of the seats.
7
  Waiting for the GPRSP-II to initiate a new series of PRSCs would have led to the interruption of the dialogue with
the authorities and other development partners on important reforms and impeded IDA to disburse for the budget of
CY08.


                                                          2
Government and donors to continue while the Government prepared the GPRSP-II and an
infrastructure master plan.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Like the PRSC-1-3 preceding it, PRSC-4's policy development objectives (PDOs), dialogue, and
results-based framework were closely aligned with three of the GRSP-I's five pillars. These
PDOs were:

    (i) Promote good governance: through public expenditure management reforms, civil service
         reform and decentralization, and improvement in the monitoring and evaluation system.
    (ii) Develop human capital, with a focus on health: strengthen capacity to deal with non-
         communicable diseases, improve management of health human resources, and increase
         financial sustainability of health services with special attention to contributory schemes.
    (iii) Improve social protection: decentralize and rationalize service delivery, improve
         management and planning instruments by implementing the social protection strategy,
         and support the implementation of the National Action Plan for disabled people.

As with the first series of operations, PRSC-4 supported only three of the GPRSP-I's five pillars
in accordance with the division of labor with other IDA and donor projects. 8 Due to the
transitory nature of the operation, the authorities agreed to narrow the scope of PRSC-4
(compared to the PRSC-1-3) in that it excluded both the education component and the sub-
component on justice. These were excluded because the donor dialogue had matured and
support was being provided through other instruments. Key indicators were identified for the
prior actions and they are detailed in Table 1 below.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

The PDOs and indicators were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

As noted above, the objectives and policy areas supported by this operation corresponded
directly to three of the five pillars in the Government's GPRSP-I. The key issues to be addressed
in each of these areas were as follow:

    (i) Promote good governance. The 2003 CFAA, 2003 PER, and 2006 PER and CPAR
        identified critical weaknesses in the public expenditure management system, most
        notably large stocks of arrears, significant delays in closing and auditing accounts and
        poor planning among others. In addition, although public administration in Cape Verde
        provided quality services, the country's insularity created challenges to responsive

8
 The pillars that were not supported by the PRSCs were Pillar 2 (Promote Competitiveness to Improve Economic
Growth and Employment Creation) and Pillar 4 (Improve and Develop Infrastructure, Promote Land Use Planning
and Protect the Environment). These were supported, however, by Bank and other donor projects and the Bank's
2005 Country Assistance Strategy was aligned with all five pillars.


                                                     3
   service delivery and citizens perceived public administration as inefficient. Moreover,
   sustainability was at stake because the overall wage bill represented about 12 percent of
   GDP and more than 30 percent of public expenditure. Finally, there was continued need
   for a results-oriented M&E system to ensure data for monitoring progress and evaluating
   the impact of the poverty reduction strategy.

   Accordingly, a key policy area addressed by PRSC-4 was public expenditure
   management reform, including clearing the stock of arrears; increasing funding for
   priority sectors ; strengthening budget execution and reporting; strengthening external
   controls; and improving procurement policies and practices. The operation also focused
   on civil service reform and decentralization. Reform areas included approval of the
   law on civil service by the Council of Ministers; and advancing state reform and state
   restructuring. Development of a results-based monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
   system was also an area of focus with the objective of ensuring timely access to relevant
   data to monitor progress; evaluate the impact of the poverty reduction strategy; and make
   any program or other modifications as needed.

(ii) Develop and upgrade human capital. While Cape Verde's health service coverage rate
     was good (72 percent) relative to other African countries and the country was on track to
     achieve the MDGs, these good indicators masked significant regional disparities that
     were based on an unsustainable financial framework. Accordingly, the Government's
     reform agenda focused on health outcomes and access to health services, principally in
     addressing inequities in health outcomes; strengthening the effectiveness of human
     resources in the health system; addressing the increase in non-communicable diseases
     through health prevention and promotion programs; and improving the efficiency of
     health financing. The operation focused on supporting the approval of a strategy for non-
     communicable diseases due to a significant increase in these incidence. Cape Verde lacks
     specialists and diagnostic equipment to diagnose and treat some non-communicable
     diseases, in particular in remote areas. As result, the country has to rely on medical
     evacuations, both within and outside the country, with important budgetary implications
     (evacuations represented 4.8 percent of the health budget in 2007). Furthermore, there is
     a limit on the number of evacuations to Portugal (300 patients per year) and thus an
     important objective of the government was to build capacity in dealing with non-
     communicable diseases.

(iii)Improve the effectiveness and sustainability of the social protection system. Although
     Cape Verde had a relatively well developed social protection system and significant
     progress was made in reforming social security under PRSC-1-3, additional reforms were
     still necessary to increase efficiency, equity, and coverage, as well as to address specific
     gaps. The previous PRSC series focused primarily on the reform of the non-contributory
     pension system; as that was successfully implemented, PRSC-4 focused on the approval
     of a National Action Plan for Disabled People and the establishment of a Steering
     Committee to monitor its implementation.




                                             4
1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

Not applicable.

1.6 Other Significant Changes

There were no significant changes in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements, or
funding.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)

The matrix in Table 1 below lists the prior actions for PRSC-4 and their implementation status.
These actions represented a sub-set of the Government's program of reforms as detailed in the
harmonized joint matrix used by the Bank and Cape Verde's other budget support donors and the
Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP).9 They were selected because they were (i)
deemed essential to the successful implementation of the Government's reform program; (ii) the
Bank had a comparative advantage in supporting the Government in these areas and/or support
was not being provided by other donors;10 and (iii) they excluded areas where the dialogue with
the Government had matured, progress was satisfactory, or Bank support was being provided
through other instruments (e.g., justice).

As seen in Table 1 below, all of the nine prior actions were satisfactorily completed before
program approval. In addition, most of PRSC-4's outcomes were met satisfactorily; the
exceptions were the benchmarks regarding (i) the share of the 2008 budget devoted to education;
and (ii) the number of procurement units that were made operational. (The specific PRSC-4
outcomes shown in the Table are discussed below in the context of the progress achieved under
each policy area.)

In addition to satisfactorily meeting most of the PRSC-4 outcomes, reform performance overall
was also largely satisfactory in each of the key policy areas, although there were continued
delays in implementing the Budget Framework Law and progress in the social protection area
was limited. The most important policy results include the following:

        Macroeconomic Performance: Real GDP growth was an estimated 7.8 percent in 2007,
        primarily as a result of strong public and private investment directed towards
        infrastructure development and tourism. Although recent global economic events have
        led to a slowdown in the volume of FDI, tourism, and remittances,11 GDP growth in 2008

9
 They exclude, for example, actions related to the environment. While the joint matrix includes numerous
environmental policy actions and benchmarks, these were not used as prior actions because they were being
addressed through the efforts of other budget support partners.
10
   Austrian, Dutch and Spanish cooperations focus their dialogue on environmental issues. EU covers education and
all other sectors but environment. World Bank and Africa Development Bank cover all sectors but environment and
education.
11
   Preliminary estimates indicate that tourism receipts declined by about 6 percent in 2008, compared to 2007, and
FDI declined by 53 percent. Remittances fell by 17 percent in 2008 compared to the previous year.


                                                        5
            is estimated to be 5.9 percent, down slightly from the previously projected 6.5 percent.
            Inflation ­ which is driven by the cost of imports, primarily food and fuel ­ edged
            upward, however, reaching 6.8 percent in 2008, compared to 4.8 percent in 2006 (and 0.4
            percent in 2005). Government fiscal policy continued to be consistent with
            macroeconomic stability and debt sustainability, and higher than expected tax collection
            and continued expenditure control brought the 2008 fiscal deficit (including grants) down
            to 1.2 percent of GDP (versus a high of 5.0 percent of GDP in 2006). In addition, the
            domestic debt-to-GDP ratio was reduced from 33 percent in 2005 to 15.8 percent by end-
            2008. External debt remained low at 41.5 percent of GDP. While the slowing in transfers
            and tourism flows led to an estimated widening of the external current account deficit in
            2008 to 18.1 percent of GDP, no financing gap occurred and gross international reserves
            at end-2008 were estimated to be equivalent to 4.0 months of prospective imports
            (compared to 2.8 months at the end of 2005). The IMF's fifth PSI review was
            successfully completed in December 2008, and Cape Verde met all quantitative
            assessment criteria for end-December 2007 -- including exceeding some by wide margins
            -- and steady progress was made in implementing the structural assessment criteria.

            Since the closing of the operation, macroeconomic performance continued to be sound.
            Nonetheless, due to the high degree of integration of the Cape Verdean economy with the
            rest of the world, especially with the Euro area, growth is expected to decelerate as a
            result of a decline in external inflows. While remittances flows continue performing well
            (increase of 3 percent in 2008 and increase of 10 percent in the first quarter of 2009
            compared to the same period in 2008), tourism and FDI flows have declined, especially
            FDI. Whereas tourism revenues increased 8 percent in 2008 they declined by
            approximately 30 percent in the first quarter of 2009 compared to the first quarter in 2008.
            FDI increased by approximately 4 percent in 2008 but decreased sharply in the first
            quarter of 2009 ­ by 65 percent compared to the first quarter in 2008. Reflecting the
            decline in tourism and FDI flows, international reserves are expected to decline from 4
            months of prospective imports by end 2008 to 3.9 by end 2009. The Authorities plan to
            expand significantly public investment in infrastructure which will partially offset the
            decline in private consumption and investment and exports. As a result, government
            projects real GDP growth to stand between 4.7 and 5.7 percent.12 Due to the increase in
            the PIP envelope and lower-than-expected revenues the fiscal deficit is projected to reach
            8.8 percent of the GDP, whereas the 2009 budget law projected a deficit of 5.5 percent.




12
     IMF projects a rate of 3.5 percent.



                                                     6
                           Table 1: PRSC-4 Prior Actions, Outcomes, and Indicators
                                                         Base Year
  PRSC-4                                                (2006, unless         2008                     Achieved
Prior Action         Outcome          Indicator           otherwise        Benchmarks
                                                         indicated)

               Pillar I: Promote Good Governance, Reinforce Effectiveness, and Guarantee Equity

                                              Public Finance Management
Met. 2008          Education and     Share of the      Education ­ 24%     Education ­     Met
draft Budget       Health sectors    budget as % of    Health ­ 6%         29%13           Health ­ 8%
Law takes into     have adequate     GDP               Social Protection   Health ­ 8%     Social Protection ­ 1%
account, inter     funding (within   (education,       ­ 1%                Social
alia, adequate     the limitations   health, and                           Protection ­    Not Met
funding for the    of the budget     social                                1%              Education ­ 22.7% (Based on the
priority sectors   constraint)       protection)                                           third quarter accounts. Final 2008
(education and                                                                             accounts are not available yet)
health)
                                                                                           Nonetheless, education
                                                                                           expenditures increased in absolute
                                                                                           terms:
                                                                                           2006: 5459 million CVE
                                                                                           2007: 5688 million CVE
                                                                                           2008: 5800 million CVE
                                                                                           2009 (budget): 6540 million CVE
Met.               Central           Outstanding       64                  16               Met: 16
Implementation     government        stock of
of the plan for    reduces the       arrears (%)
arrears            stock of debt
clearance          towards the
continued as       private sector,
evidenced by       municipalities
the reduction of   and Institutes
the outstanding
stock to 40
percent
Met. Audited       Improved          Number of         5                   2                Met: 2
State General      impact of         years before                                          Audited 2007 accounts are being
Accounts for       external          presentation of                                       finalized and are expected to be
2001-2005          controls          the audited                                           sent to the national Assembly end-
submitted to                         accounts to                                           June.
Parliament                           the Parliament
                                                                                           There was also notable progress
                                                                                           with the municipal accounts. The
                                                                                           auditing of the 2001-2005
                                                                                           accounts of the Municipality of
                                                                                           Boavista were completed, and the
                                                                                           following are under way (with
                                                                                           financing secured):
                                                                                           Sao Vicente (2001-2006)
                                                                                           Sao Nicolau (2001-2006)
                                                                                           Sao Filipe (2001-2006)




13
   Note that the education benchmark for 2008 was set using preliminary data and assumed a 2 percent increase over the 27
percent achieved in 2007. This preliminary data was widely inaccurate, however, and subsequent data showed that the education
sector's actual budget share in 2007 was only 24 percent -- producing a benchmark that was unrealistically high and would
require a 5 percent increase in expenditures to be achieved.


                                                               7
                                                            Base Year
  PRSC-4                                                   (2006, unless      2008                   Achieved
Prior Action           Outcome           Indicator           otherwise     Benchmarks
                                                            indicated)
Met. Decree          Improve           Number of          0                6             Not Met: 0
creating the         procurement       procurement
Procurement          systems           units (UGAs)                                      Secondary legislation on the
Regulatory           through           in place and                                      Procurement Code has been
Agency is            enforcement of    operational                                       published. Four UGAS will be
published            laws,                                                               initiated once ARAP management
                     regulations,                                                        is nominated. It is expected that
                     and processes                                                       the four UGAs will be fully
                                                                                         operational by the end of the year.
                                                                                         The UGAs will be in the
                                                                                         Ministries of Health, Education,
                                                                                         Infrastructure and Finance (the
                                                                                         UGA in the Ministry of Finance
                                                                                         will handle procurement for the
                                                                                         sectors without UGAs). In line
                                                                                         with the current State Reform (that
                                                                                         aims at rationalizing the State) the
                                                                                         Authorities decided to implement
                                                                                         four UGAs, instead of six.
                                             Civil Service and Decentralization
Met. Minister        Enhance           Number of          0                1             Met: 1
of State reform      effectiveness     Institutes fully
approves the         and efficiency    integrated                                        The National Institute of
diagnostic           in the State      with the                                          Administration and Management
report on State      Administration    University of                                     (INAG) has been incorporated into
restructuring                          Cape Verde                                        the University of Cape Verde. The
                                                                                         process has been launched for
                                                                                         three other institutes (INIDA,
                                                                                         INDP and INERF), and it is
                                                                                         expected that they will be
                                                                                         integrated with the University of
                                                                                         Cape Verde by end-2011.

Met. Council         Professional      Staff turnover     36%14            Reduced by    Met
of Ministers         and merit-        in senior                           5%
approves the         based civil       positions                                         29% of senior staff in 2008
draft Law on         service created   (non-mobility)
Civil Service
                                                  Monitoring and Evaluation
Met. Extend          Improved          Number of          STAD -1          STAD -4       Met
NOSI Database        capacity to       staff with         Sectors ­ 0      Sectors ­12
to STAD as           monitor the       training to        INE- 6           INE- 20       54 sectoral technicians were
evidenced by         GPRSP             monitor and                                       trained (including training in
(i) completion                         evaluate the                                      MTEF and construction of
of the                                 GPRSP                                             information systems). Also 3
installation; (ii)                     implemen-                                         persons from STAD.
training of the                        tation
team; (iii)                                                                              Almost all staff from INE have
database                                                                                 been in constant training.
contains project                                                                         Staff from NOSI (1) and MCA (2)
information to                                                                           have also received training.
allow budget
performance
evaluation


14
     Not available at the time of the Board presentation.


                                                                  8
                                                    Base Year
  PRSC-4                                           (2006, unless    2008                        Achieved
Prior Action       Outcome          Indicator        otherwise   Benchmarks
                                                    indicated)
                                 Pillar III: Develop and Upgrade Human Capital
                                                       Health
Met. Strategy   Measures to       Number of        0                  5             Met: 5
for non-        control NCD       interventions
communicable    have been         on NCD                                            Five intervention strategies were
diseases        implemented                                                         implemented during 2008, as
approved by                                                                         planned.
Council of
Ministers
            Pillar V: Improve the Effectiveness and Sustainability of the Social Protection System
                                                  Social Protection
Met. Action     Children with     Enrollment       2000:              +10%           Not ascertainable
Plan for        special needs     rate of          2,044
Disabled        receive better    handicapped      children15                       The authorities have only recently
People is       education         children                                          started to monitor this indicator
approved by     services          (under 15                                         and have estimated that public
Council of                        years old)                                        institutes have 1,508 children with
Ministers and                                                                       special needs. The 2000 baseline
steering                                                                            included both public and private
committee has                                                                       institutes and population of all
been                                                                                ages, and information of
established                                                                         enrollment in private institutes is
                                                                                    currently not available.




Under the policy area of "promote good governance," the following was achieved:

        Public finance management: As with the first PRSC series, there continued to be delays
        in adopting by the Council of Ministers the Budget Planning Law as there was little
        progress in adopting the draft Budget Framework Law and the Organic Law on the Court
        of Auditors (TdC) by the Parliament. This legislation is critical to establish the legal and
        institutional framework for the ongoing public finance management reform. Although
        the Budget Framework Law was approved by the Council of Ministers in 2006 (approval
        was a prior action for budget support in 2006), and was discussed in the Parliament in
        late 2007, there was a lack of agreement on the implementation of the timeframe.
        Likewise, while the legal framework to strengthen the mandate of the TdC and improve
        the transparency and accountability of public resources has been approved in general16,
        Parliament has not yet adopted the law and the concomitant implementation decrees.
        Internal controls also remained weak owing to the continued shortage of human resources
        at the General Inspectorate for Finances (IGF).



15
  This figure does not cover children only as uncorrectly stated in the matrix of the Program Document (that was
based on information available to the government and Bank at that time). It includes disabled population of all ages
enrolled in school.
16 The law has been approved in the generality (generalidade), meaning the law as a whole, but has not been
approved in the specificity (especialidade), meaning article by article.


                                                          9
   There was also continued improvement in external controls, a focus of the PRSC-4, as
   the amount of time needed before the audited State General Accounts could be submitted
   to Parliament was reduced to two years; similarly, there was also notable progress in
   auditing several municipal-level accounts (see Table 1). Likewise, progress in arrears
   clearance -- which was also a key area of focus of PRSC-1-3 -- continued under PRSC-4,
   with the reduction of the outstanding stock of debt to 40 percent. Under the 2008 budget,
   a provision of CVE 1,289 million reduced the outstanding stock to 16 percent, meeting
   the PRSC-4 benchmark, with a complete clearance anticipated for end-2009. Elimination
   of these arrears is a key element of the public finance management reforms. Budget
   execution, has been strengthened through its deconcentration to sector ministries, which
   enabled line ministries and some institutions to commit and liquidate. In the beginning,
   following the deconcentration of the liquidation, ELECTRA faced some difficulties in
   collecting the payment of the bills, however, this was resolved shortly after.

   Progress in the area of procurement, advanced, although slowly (as it was under PRSC-
   1-3). The national procurement law (a PRSC-3 prior action) passed by Parliament in July
   2007 came into force in January 2008, creating the basis for transparent procurement
   transactions to be carried out by a designated procurement unit. A number of steps were
   taken towards the implementation of the law, including approval by the Council of
   Ministers of the text for the creation of the regulatory authority (the Regulation Entity for
   Public Acquisitions, ARAP), and the publication in December 2008 of the accompanying
   implementing regulations. The effective and full implementation of the Procurement
   Code will not be possible, however, until the Organic Law for the TdC is adopted by the
   Parliament. Moreover, ARAP is not yet operational, as the nomination of the
   management team has been delayed due to lack of qualified human resources. The
   PRSC-4 benchmark of establishing six operational Units for Procurement Management
   (UGAs) was not met but four UGAs will established once the management of ARAP is
   nominated. UGAs are expected to be fully operational by year-end. These entities will be
   established in the Ministries of Health, Education, Infrastructure, and Finance.

   Civil service reform and decentralization: The key areas of civil service reform under
   PRSC-4 were institutional restructuring and revising the law on civil service. In the area
   of institutional restructuring, the key recommendations in the report of the Commission
   for the Rationalization of the State (CRE) were initiated, including the redefinition and
   rationalization of the organizational structure of line ministries. In order to enable more
   coordinated expenditure planning and execution, the Government also created a new
   mandatory internal management structure for each ministry ­ the Office of Management
   and Budget (DGPOG) -- which harmonizes the central structures of ministries by
   integrating the functions of the Directorates for Administration and Finance and the
   Directorates for Studies and Planning. Other institutional restructuring efforts include the
   separation of research from policy implementation functions by transferring research
   institutions from line ministries to the University of Cape Verde. To this end, the
   National Institute of Administration and Management (Instituto Nacional de
   Administração e Gestão, INAG) has been incorporated into the University, to be followed
   by the transfer of three other entities by end-2011. In addition, the Government's
   inspection function is being improved through the establishment of a new inspection unit.



                                            10
           In the area of civil service reform, the Council of Ministers adopted a revised Basic Law
           on Civil Service (Lei de Base da Função Pública) in January 2008. The Law included a
           number of changes that would create a more professional and merit-based civil service.
           While adoption of the Basic Law met the trigger requirements, submission to Parliament
           has been delayed to ensure that the accompanying secondary legislation and
           comprehensive fiscal impact assessment of wage reform implementation is first
           completed. Staff turnover in senior positions has also been reduced from 36 to 29 percent,
           exceeding the PRSC-4 benchmark.

           Finally, in the area of decentralization (an area that is part of the broader dialogue with
           the authorities but was not covered by this operation in particular), the Framework Law
           on Decentralization ­ an issue still outstanding from the previous PRSC series -- was
           revised and resubmitted to Parliament to reflect the newly reached consensus that
           decentralization would not include political regionalization but would strengthen the
           regions as planning units and inter-municipal cooperation. Nonetheless, municipal
           elections and the preparation of the finance law have to date prevented the inclusion of
           this law on the National Assembly's agenda. Strengthening municipal management
           capacity and communication, another element of decentralization, continued through
           the implementation of a "Municipal Information System" in twelve municipalities in
           2008.

           Monitoring and Evaluation: In order to avoid duplication, program performance in the
           area of M&E is reviewed below in Section 2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design,
           Implementation, and Utilization.

Under the policy area of "develop and upgrade human capital" the following outcomes were
achieved:

           Education: Owing to the significant progress made in the education sector under PRSC-
           1-3, education was no longer an explicit component under PRSC-4. Nonetheless, it
           remained an important element of the Government's poverty reduction program and
           PRSC-4 continued to monitor outcomes in this sector. As noted above, education
           spending as a share of the 2008 budget was 23 percent, 17 apparently below the
           benchmark goal of 29 percent. In fact, however, the benchmark itself was set
           inappropriately high, using inaccurate preliminary data. It had been set by assuming a
           two percent increase in expenditures over the 27 percent allocated in 2007; subsequent
           data, however, showed that actual expenditures were 24 percent. While preliminary data
           (through the third quarter accounts) indicate that education expenditures did not increase
           in their budget share by 2 percent, the actual shortfall is not as significant as seemingly
           indicated by the benchmark.

           Moreover, the outcomes related to education sector financing under PRSC-4 were
           positive by a number of other measurements. Education expenditures actually continued
           to rise in real terms, growing from 5,688 million CVE in 2007 to 5,800 million CVE in
           2008, with 6,540 million CVE budgeted for 2009. Other key outcomes include (i) decline
17
     Based on third quarter accounts. Final 2008 accounts are not yet available.


                                                           11
        in the failure rate in secondary education, from 8.4 percent in 2006/7 to 8.2 percent in
        2007/8; (ii) increase in the number of primary school teachers with pedagogical training
        (from 73 percent in 2004 to 84.6 percent in 2007/8) and; improvement in the access of
        students to secondary school thanks to the effective management of supporting programs
        (the number of students receiving support rose from 14,976 in 2006/7 to 15,900 in 2007/8.

        Health financing: Substantial progress was made in the area of health financing and
        strengthening the financial sustainability of the health services. Health sector
        expenditures accounted for 8 percent of the 2008 budget, meeting the PRSC-4 benchmark.
        A Public Expenditures Tracking Survey was also prepared in 2008 enabling the in-depth
        identification of the flow of funds from the central level toward every health unit.18 In
        the 2008 budget, each regional health directorate was able to develop its own budget,
        which included the resources generated by that directorate. As a result, budgeting
        management and expenditures tracking were significantly improved. In addition, updated
        health tariffs and recovery cost fees were implemented in every facility and are producing
        positive outcomes.

        Health resources: The availability of health personnel at the decentralized level
        continued to improve under PRSC-4: for example, 4 specialists, 17 general practitioners,
        4 nurses, and 27 technicians were deployed in the second quarter of 2008. The Ministry
        of Health still needs, however, to produce a multi-annual action plan that links planning
        with output and appropriate personnel deployment, and addresses the issues of motivation,
        incentives, and performance management.

        Priority health programs: Additional progress was made in the area of priority health
        programs, with routine immunization coverage rising to 80.3 percent in 2007, up from
        73.6 percent in 2006.19 There were also a number of successful interventions in the area
        of maternal health, including the distribution of emergency obstetrical care kits and the
        introduction of obstetrical registers, contributing to a stable maternal mortality rate of
        42/100,000 live births. The Integrated Management of Child Illnesses pilot program was
        efficiently introduced and the end of the pilot phase in mid-2008 laid the groundwork for
        the national scale-up of the program. Less positively, a new national immunization plan
        launched in 2007 was stalled owing to insufficient financing by WHO for new antigens.

        Capacity to deal with non-communicable diseases (NCDs): Cape Verde's capacity to
        handle NCDs was strengthened under PRSC-4. The Council of Ministers approved a
        new national strategy on NCD in December 2007, and five intervention strategies were
        implemented in 2008. These were: (i) approval of protocols to prevent chronic diseases
        (diabetes, alcoholism and hypertension); (ii) raise awareness through media (TV and
        radio) on means to prevent those diseases; (iii) preparation of a plan for mental health;
        (iv) training nurses on cancer prevention; and (v) signature of a protocol for
        hemodialysis treatment. In addition, a national field survey is being finalized and its
        results will enable the development of new clinical protocols of care for high blood

18
 The survey was financed by the PRSP Trust Fund.
19
 This improvement corrected previous data and was realized through new population projections provided by the
National Statistics Institute (INE).


                                                     12
        pressure, diabetes, and rheumatic fever, as well as the basis for training personnel to use
        these protocols.

There was slower progress, however, in the policy area of "improve the effectiveness and
sustainability of the social protection system," as follows:

        Decentralization: The replacement of the existing operational and legal framework for
        the decentralization of social protection services with a new decree was not completed
        because it was dependent on Parliament's adoption of the Framework Law on
        Decentralization, which has still not occurred, first owing to the political debate
        surrounding it (the Law was approved by the Council of Ministers in November 2007,
        and parliamentary adoption was expected in 2008) and then because of the Municipal
        elections.20 A TOR was developed, however, for a legal consultant to prepare a draft
        Decree that is consistent with the decentralization law that was sent to Parliament. In
        addition, the annual update of the Social Map (Carta Social) ­ which was a significant
        achievement of the prior set of operations -- was delayed until 2009, owing to a lack of
        funds.

        Disability: Under the PRSC-4, the Council of Ministers approved a National Action Plan
        for Disabled People in November 2007 and a steering committee to guide implementation
        of the plan was established. Although the process of hiring a Coordinator for the
        National Action Plan was not completed, the outcome of improving the education of
        children with special needs is not ascertainable, with more than 1,500 students enrolled in
        public institutions in 2008 (data for private institutions are not available). In addition,
        specialized teacher training was established in several municipalities, including programs
        in Braille and sign language, and several dedicated teaching rooms were established for
        children with special needs such as auditory deficiencies.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

PRSC-4 continued to be characterized by the same strengths that informed the first series of
operations. These were: Government ownership; sound background analysis; strong and
focused program design; and highly effective donor coordination. These are each discussed in
turn.

Government Ownership: The design of PRSC-4 was embedded in a three-year matrix 21
developed by the authorities and budget support donors and was prepared following extensive
consultation with various stakeholders under the Government's leadership. PRSC-4 supported
reform measures that were integral to the GPRSP-I, which itself was built on a well-articulated
set of strategies and priorities that addressed Cape Verde's main development challenges.22 The

20
   The adoption of the Framework Law on Decentralization was originally anticipated under the first PRSC series,
but was delayed by the political debate as to whether or not a regional administrative and/or local Government level
should be created.
21
   The joint policy matrix between the budget support partners was developed in the context of PRSC-2.
22
   These inputs included the Major Planning Options (GOP), the National Development Plan (NDP), and the Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2002).


                                                        13
GPRSP-I received a positive assessment through a joint IMF/IDA Staff Advisory Note in April
2005.

Soundness of Background Analysis:         PRSC-4 was informed by the conclusions and
recommendations of a wide variety of analytical work. Much of this work provided the
analytical basis for the design and focus of the reform program supported by the first PRSC
series, 23 and was supplemented by additional subsequent analysis; for example, the public
expenditures agenda was designed based on the high priority actions identified in both the 2003
and 2006 PER and CFAA action plans. Similarly, the integrated CFAA/CPAR in FY03, PER
(FY06) and PER (FY08) provided the underpinning for public financial management reforms.
Furthermore, the ICRR for PRSC1-3 provided useful information on lessons learnt.

Strength and Focus of Program Design: PRSC-4 supported a small and strategic subset of the
GPRSP policy and reform agenda; was built closely on the first PRSC series; and focused on the
reforms proposed under the GPRSP-I that were still not completed or which emerged as
priorities for the Government since undertaking the implementation of its poverty reduction
program. As noted, PRSC-4 was embedded in the three-year Joint Matrix covering the 2007-09
period, thus ensuring its cohesiveness with the operations that preceded it. The design was also
prepared following extensive consultation with various stakeholders under the Government's
leadership. This consultative and harmonized approach both minimized the burden on the
Government's limited capacity, and ensured Government ownership of the supported reforms.
Finally, the PRSC-4 explicitly incorporated the lessons learned from the three previous
operations.24

This operation was consistent with the Bank's FY05-08 assistance strategy for Cape Verde as
outlined in the 2005 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).25 The CAS was aligned with all five
pillars of the GPRSP-I, and the PRSC-4 (like PRSC-1-3) supported three of those pillars. The
use of the PRSC instrument enabled the Bank to consolidate its lending operations and engage in
policy and technical dialogue in these three areas, 26 and was complemented by Bank support
through ongoing investment operations in the areas of energy, transport, private sector
development, and HIV/AIDS. Finally, this operation contributed to the outcomes of the CAS,
notably: (i) improved transparency of public expenditure and empowerment of oversight
institutions; (ii) clarified framework for municipalities; (iii) improved ability to manage public


23
   The analytical work supporting the first PRSC series include a Public Expenditure Review (PER, FY04); a
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA, FY03); a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR,
FY04); a Development Policy Review (DPR, FY05); a Poverty Assessment; a Study on the Role of the State; and a
study on the likelihood of achieving the MDG goals, among others. Notably, the assessments underlying the reform
program supported by the PRSCs were also used by the other budget support donors as the analytical basis for their
assistance, thereby ensuring a complementarity in approach among the budget support partners.
24
   These were: (i) enhance Government ownership and donor coordination through the use of budget support; (ii)
better link sectoral and cross-cutting issues; and (iii) find ways to provide technical assistance at short notice for
capacity building.
25
   The first PRSC and the CAS were presented to the Board simultaneously, indicating their close alignment.
26
   The CAS identified the PRSCs as a strategic lending instrument to (i) provide predictable resource flows,
particularly important given Cape Verde's reliance on donor financing; (ii) strengthen public administration and
public expenditure management systems; and (iii) help harmonize donors and reduce the potential distortions and
transaction costs of external assistance.


                                                         14
sector reform across institutions; and (iv) improved sustainability, access, and quality of health
services.

Program design included a policy matrix in which the result indicators were closely linked to the
supported policy actions, and the indicators themselves were drawn directly from the GPRSP and
the CFAA/CPAR action plan, reflecting the close alignment between the Bank's operations and
the Government's priorities. The joint matrix used by the budget support partners was governed
by the principles of simplification (fewer triggers and fewer activities) and harmonization (a
common matrix used by all the partner donors). Accordingly, the joint matrix was used by the
budget support partners as the basis for dialogue and disbursement in their respective operations
(discussed further below). The joint matrix contained three overarching general assessment
indicators (requiring positive assessments in the macroeconomic, poverty reduction, and public
finance spheres), 22 medium-term objectives and 26 indicators, reflecting the fact that it spanned
many sectors. The PRSC-4 operation is a subset of the Joint Matrix, thus the number of prior
actions was limited to nine (see Table 1 above).

Effectiveness of donor coordination: Effective donor coordination continued to be a key
hallmark of the PRSC-4. The strong coordination between the Bank, the Netherlands, and the
EU that began with the initial preparation of PRSC-127 was formalized in the context of PRSC-2
with the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) agreement governing the improved
harmonization among the Budget Support Group (BSG) donors and the Government.28 The BSG
carried out joint appraisal and supervisory missions during PRSC-2 and PRSC-3; adopted a joint
policy matrix (as discussed above); conducted bi-annual review missions; and jointly prepared
and discussed Aide-Memoires following each mission. Beginning with PRSC-3, the BSG was
expanded to six donors.29

This close cooperation and supervision continued and harmonization was further strengthened
during PRSC-4. The BSG was again expanded when the Portuguese Cooperation joined, first as
an observer in December 2007 and then as a formal member in 2008. PRSC-4 was prepared in
close coordination with the other budget support partners, following the MOU signed with the
Government. Finally, PRSC-4 was prepared in close coordination with the IMF and IMF's PSI
reviews. To ensure consistent dialogue and advice to the Cape Verdean authorities, the Bank's
and Fund's work was also closely coordinated in the areas of operational overlap (e.g.,
addressing fiscal risk).


27
   At that time, the Netherlands and the EU were also preparing budget support operations and these two donors and
the Bank all used the same analytical basis (including the findings of the PERs, the CFAA, and the CPAR) for
harmonizing their policies and operations. Additionally, the Bank and the Netherlands ­ in consultation with the EU
­ carried out joint pre-appraisal, technical, and appraisal missions during the initial preparation of the PRSC series to
ensure harmonization of budget support, particularly in the areas of overlapping fiduciary requirements.
28
   The "Partnership Framework between Budget Support Partners and the Government of Cape Verde for the
Provision of Budget Support" agreement was signed in April 2005. Under this framework, the parties agreed to
conduct joint reviews; to harmonize indicators and prior actions; and to synchronize budgetary assistance with
Government budget cycles in order to reduce the Government's transaction costs associated with this assistance.
29
   When the African Development Bank (AfDB), Austria, and Spain joined the group (first informally, by
participating in the discussions, and then formally, through signing the MOU). The first joint mission of all six
budgetary partners took place in December 2006.


                                                          15
Relevance of Risks Identified and Mitigation: The risks were correctly identified for this
operation. For PRSC-4, three possible risks were identified and appropriate mitigating measures
were implemented. These were:

         Capacity weaknesses could slow reform progress: The limited number of technical staff
         and the high turnover of senior staff in several key ministries were recognized as a
         potential risk; indeed, these capacity weaknesses had already affected implementation
         progress under PRSC-1-3. Accordingly, a number of offsetting measures were
         incorporated into PRSC-4. In the short term, this risk was mitigated by: (i) technical
         advice from the PRSC team; (ii) the provision of US$3.5 million by the budget support
         partners to finance capacity building and technical support; and (iii) provision of a
         technical assistance Trust Fund (TF) by the Bank targeted at key shortcomings.30 In the
         medium- to long-term, this risk was to be offset by the PRSC-4 component on civil
         service reform; accordingly, PRSC-4 included a prior action on "Council of Ministers
         approves the draft Law on Civil Service," with the expected outcome of creating a
         professional and merit-based civil service.

         Decline in external concessional support could occur at a faster pace than expected:
         This decline was anticipated to result from Cape Verde's graduation to middle-income
         status in January 2008. To offset this reduction in support, the Bank took a lead role in
         helping to harmonize and secure resources to guard against a slowdown in reforms or
         fiscal slippages resulting from the domestic financing of these reforms. In any case, this
         risk did not transpire as concessional assistance did not fall in 2008.

         Fiscal risk from the accumulation of contingent liabilities: This accumulation could
         emerge if public or semi-private companies were not run efficiently. This risk was
         chiefly mitigated through PRSC-supported dialogue on fiscal risk, although a number of
         previous measures undertaken in PRSC-1-3 also to some extent addressed this risk.31 In
         addition, the fiscal risks emerging from the energy sector were at the center of the IMF's
         PSI program with Cape Verde. Although ELECTRA did incur some tariff deficits from
         the non-payment of bills, Cape Verde's 2008 fiscal performance was in line with the
         Government program supported under the PSI arrangement with the IMF.

Risks stemming from the global crisis: The impact of global crisis in the Cape Verdean economy
is expected to be moderate thanks to sound macroeconomic policies which have helped to build
fiscal space and international reserves. The country will face, however, lower economic growth,
due in part to a decline in external demand and foreign direct investment. Mitigation measures


30
   The Bank established two PRSP Trust Funds under PRSC-1-4; each totaled nearly US$500,000. Activities
financed by the TFs included: (i) assisting the Government in designing and implementing appropriate M&E tools;
(ii) capacity building for strategic planning in education testing, social protection, and health financing; and (iii)
improving governance through a more strategic use of human resources in civil service and targeted assistance to the
Court of Auditors.
31
    Control of contingent liabilities was a key focus of the PFM reforms undertaken in the first PRSC series. Other
mitigating measures included an inventory of existing contingent liabilities; a plan for settlement of arrears and
prevention of contingent liabilities; and revision of the automatic pricing mechanism for petroleum products.


                                                         16
pursued by the Government are continued fiscal discipline, a cautious monetary policy and close
monitoring of external financial developments.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

M&E Design: As originally designed, M&E under the GPRSP-I was a national integrated
approach that was to be built on existing systems and information technology platforms that were
well advanced. This intended approach was overly ambitious, however, and M&E
implementation was not adequate to its design for much of the PRSC-1-3 period. 32 During
preparation of the PRSC-4, work proceeded on M&E design in the form of a final report towards
setting up an institutional framework for a M&E system for the GPRSP-II. The findings of this
report will also be used by the General Directorate of Planning (DGP) and the Technical
Secretariat for Development Assistance (STAD) to develop a needs assessment which will serve
as the basis for designing a M&E capacity building program.

M&E Implementation: While M&E implementation was weak under the previous series of
operations, it began to strengthen near the end of the series, and this improvement continued
under PRSC-4. Despite some delays, the results of the QUIBB 2007 survey were made available
in 2008, thereby providing data which will be important to the elaboration of the first GPRSP-II
progress report. Building on the successful implementation of the Social Map (Carta Social)33
under PRSC-3, a consultancy for establishing a comprehensive M&E system for the Social Map
was also launched. Moreover, M&E has become a top Government priority: it is strongly
reflected throughout the GPRSP-II, and the M&E pilot project outlined in the program contains a
wide range of output and input indicators that can be monitored as program implementation
proceeds.34

M&E staffing and capacity building also improved in a number of ways. Staffing at the STAD ­
the institution responsible for producing progress reports and evaluating the global and sectoral
impact of poverty reduction efforts -- improved through the hiring of an economist, as well as
through ongoing collaboration with the National Statistical Institute (INE) for the hiring of a new
statistician. As detailed in Table 1, M&E training met the benchmarks for 2008, including the
provision of training to 54 sectoral technicians as well INE staff, STAD and NOSI.35 The DGP,
however, continued to suffer from both human resource constraints and limited M&E training
(only two staff members have been exposed to some basic M&E training).



32
   As noted in the ICRR on PRSC-1-3: PRSC "program design...overestimated the adequacy of M&E capabilities.
Beginning with the CAS, Cape Verde's capability, willingness, and sense of urgency to develop an effective and
integrated M&E system was overestimated, and the inadequacy of Government efforts to establish the M&E system
quickly became apparent by PRSC-2."
33
   The Carta Social is a geo-referenced database of all social infrastructure and services that fall under the mandate
of the Ministry of Labor, Family and Solidarity (e.g., preschools and day-care centers, hospices, centers for the
handicapped). Creation of the Carta Social was a condition of PRSC-1, as it was needed for the efficient use of
available facilities and rational planning of investments.
34
   The range of indicators is so extensive, in fact, that the Joint IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note on the GPRSP-II
notes that it "could benefit from some streamlining."
35
   NOSI is the Operational Nucleus for Information Systems (the national agency for the coordination of
governmental IT operations).


                                                         17
M&E Utilization: Some areas of M&E utilization remained weak under PRSC-4 and the M&E
framework needs further improvement before effective utilization can occur. As noted in the
2008 Joint IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note, the GPRSP-II lacks links between the sectoral
strategies and the clear and measurable indicators needed to monitor and evaluate the program's
implementation. In addition, the indicators for the GPRSP-II, the Transformation Agenda, and
the General Joint Matrix for Budget Support need to be better aligned, before effective M&E
utilization can occur. Institutional collaboration and coordination also needs to be strengthened,
both between agencies and within the Ministry of Finance. Utilization in the education sector is
also weak; statistical annuaries for 2006 and 2007 were not available owing to the weaknesses in
the M&E system and the lack of a systematic approach for following planned actions and
GPRSP-I indicators.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

PRSC-4 will be followed by a second three-year series of PRSCs designed in support of the
Government's GPRSP-II. The first of this second series (PRSC-5) is currently under preparation
and is scheduled for Board presentation in the first quarter of FY10. This proposed second series
is anticipated to cover 2009-2011, and will focus on two policy areas: good governance
(including fiscal policy, PFM, procurement, M&E, and statistics and state modernization), and
competitiveness and growth (including human capital, trade, tourism, financial services, tax, land
management, and energy issues).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

As with the previous series of operations, the objectives, design, and implementation of this
operation were highly relevant to Cape Verde's development priorities as expressed in the
GPRSP-I. The support provided through this operation in particular, and the PRSCs in general,
was appropriate to country circumstances in that it was consistent with Cape Verde's level of
institutional, economic, and political development;36 was warranted by the country's strong and
sustained performance in recent years; and was consistent with recommendations of core
diagnostic work (PER, CFAA, CPAR). Finally, the PRSC-4 was closely aligned with the
GPRSP-I objectives and supported the implementation of the final year of that program; in
addition, the reforms supported by this operation and the preceding series laid the framework for
the country's next stage of poverty reduction through the GPRSP-II.

As noted, the PRSC-4 was also highly consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy for Cape
Verde as outlined in the CAS. A single stand-alone operation was appropriate as a bridge
between the PRSC-1-3 and the subsequent PRSC-5-8, as it supported the Government's final

36
  The provision of budget support through a harmonized framework was particularly appropriate to Cape Verde,
given the country's small size, because such a framework reduced the transaction costs inherent to dealing with
multiple donors. It was also appropriate because Cape Verde's small open economy is vulnerable to external shocks,
and there was a risk that foreign assistance inflows could cause distortions in public administration if they were not
properly channeled through Government systems (or at least harmonized with them).


                                                         18
year of implementation of the GPRSP-I, while enabling the new series of operations to be based
on the forthcoming GPRSP-II and the Country Partnership Strategy for FY09-12 (presented to
the Board in April 2009).

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations
and outcomes)

PRSC-4 had the following three PDOs :

      (i) Promote good governance: through public expenditure management reforms, civil
          service reform and decentralization, and improvement in the M&E system.

      (ii) Develop human capital with a focus on health: strengthen capacity to deal with non-
           communicable diseases, improve management of health human resources, and increase
           financial sustainability of health services with special attention to contributory
           schemes.

      (iii) Improve social protection: decentralize and rationalize service delivery; improve
            management and planning instruments by implementing the social protection strategy;
            and support the implementation of the National Action Plan for disabled people.

As discussed in detail in Section 2.1 (Program Performance) above, PRSC-4 made
commendable progress in meeting these objectives, with the notable exception of procurement,
as the effective and full implementation of the Procurement Code will not be possible until the
Organic Law for the TdC is adopted by Parliament.

Linkage between the Bank's interventions and outcomes: As budgetary assistance, the PRSC-4
funds did not earmark specific activities to be financed, so it is not possible to establish a direct
causal linkage between the Bank's assistance and specific outcomes. Moreover, it is not possible
to disaggregate the impact of this operation from that of other Bank projects, other donor efforts,
and Government initiatives.37 However, the operation did enable the Government to finance
activities that were directly supportive of poverty reduction, such as improving the availability of
health personnel at a decentralized level. Perhaps more importantly, the Bank continued to play
a key and catalytic role in coordinating the BSG. This operation enabled a continuation of the
ongoing policy dialogue between the BSG and the Government that helped to ensure that the
operation's objectives were met and that continued progress on poverty reduction can take place
under the GPRSP-II.




37
  For example, the activities supported by PRSC-4 also complemented other interventions to reduce rural poverty,
such as the US-financed MCC ($110 million) and the Bank-financed transport project, both of which finance rural
infrastructure.


                                                      19
3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

This operation is rated satisfactory. The credit's objectives, design, implementation, and
outcomes were highly relevant to Cape Verde's development priorities, and country
circumstances and were highly consistent with the Bank's strategy and goals as outlined in the
CAS. These outcomes are also highly relevant to Cape Verde's and the Bank's medium-term
development priorities in that the reforms achieved under PRSC-4 (and previous series of
operations) have laid the framework for the next stage of poverty reduction in the context of the
GPRSP-II. As discussed, solid progress was made in meeting the operation's development
objectives, and key outcome targets were satisfactorily achieved. Finally, satisfactory progress is
being made in strengthening the Government's M&E capacity to monitor efforts to address
poverty, which was a weakness of the previous series of operations.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


Poverty: It was anticipated that the PRSC-4 would have a significant and positive impact on
poverty reduction by helping the government make a more efficient use of its resources,
improving civil service performance and implementing more rigorous procedures for resources
allocation and monitoring. In particular:

     (i)     the strengthening of public expenditure management would enhance efficiency,
             transparency, and accountability in public resource use;
     (ii)    the expansion of health infrastructure, particularly in remote areas, would increase
             access to quality health services for the poor; and
     (iii)   basic social protection to the poor would be strengthened and extended.

In addition, it was anticipated that the PRSC-4 would result in either improved overall well-
being of vulnerable people as a result of better governance and more efficient and equitable
government services, and in gains for specific groups such as disabled children, because of
efforts to offer them basic services adapted to their needs. As the disabled are disproportionally
represented among the poor, providing them with greater access to education should contribute
to increase their chances to escape poverty.

As a stand-alone operation, it is difficult to measure the impact of the PRSC-4 per se on poverty.
In general, the rapid growth that occurred in Cape Verde since the early 1990s has led to a
significant decline in poverty (the share of the population with consumption under the poverty
line fell to 26.6 percent in 2007, down from 36.7 percent in 2001-02.38 This economic growth




38
  Based on data obtained from two household surveys: the 2007 Core Welfare Indicators Survey (CWIQ) and the 1988-80 and
2001-02 IDRF survey (Inquerito As Despensas E Receitas Familiares)


                                                         20
continued during the period of the PRSC-4 implementation (real GDP per capita stood at 3.4
percent in 2008).39

In addition, the PRSC-4 focus on ensuring adequate funding for education, health and social
protection impacted on poor's access to health care and vulnerable groups' access to education.
As noted above, there were measureable improvements in the availability of health personnel at
the decentralized level, which benefited particularly the rural poor. Continued improvements in
teacher training and primary school enrollment also tend to benefit the poor. Finally, increases
in routine immunization coverage probably benefitted the poor disproportionately as this group
tends to have the lowest rates of immunization.

Gender and Social Development : During the period of implementation of the PRSC-4 gender
parity was achieved for boys and girls in terms of access to primary and secondary school. In the
area of maternal health, interventions such as the distribution of emergency obstetrical care kits
and the introduction of obstetrical registers contributed to a stable and low maternal mortality
rate. Nonetheless, the PRSC-4's impact on the poor in the area of social protection was probably
limited as there were few measures implemented in this area. The official decentralization of
social protection services that was envisioned by the authorities as a result of the Framework
Law on Decentralization has still not occurred owing to continued delays in the Law's passage;
nonetheless, many of these services have been effectively decentralized as the Government has
subcontracted them out through ten agreements with NGOs to provide services at the local level.
In addition, an update of the Social Map ­ which identifies the providers of social protection
services and thereby creates the conditions for the improved efficiency of service delivery ­ was
not completed in 2008, thus somewhat undermining its effectiveness and reliability. On the other
hand, implementation of the PRSC-4 can be linked to an increase in the school enrollment rate of
handicapped children under the age of 15, as well as the introduction of specialized teacher
training programs in the context of the Action Plan for Disabled People.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Substantial institutional strengthening occurred under the prior series of operations.40 As a one-
year, stand-alone operation, PRSC-4 was not likely to have a profound impact on institutional
strengthening, but a number of positive institutional changes did occur. For example, the
institutional rationalization is occurring through the separation of research functions from policy
functions, through the transfer of research institutions from line ministries to the University of
Cape Verde. To strengthen the inspection function of Government, a new inspection unit is also
being established under the Prime Minister to enhance the quality of inspections and rationalize
work (including reducing the number of inspections per sector). Furthermore, the focus on
strengthening external controls has reinforced the role the Court of Auditors, significantly
improving the transparency and accountability of public resources. Finally, the draft law on Civil


39
     There is no poverty data for the period after 2007.
40
   These included, inter alia, establishment of a National Pensions Center; strengthening of the capacity of the
National Statistics Institute; establishment of a Large Taxpayers Unit, supported by a modern IT system; improved
treasury management at the Ministry of Finance; strengthening of the technical and vocational training sub-sector;
and establishment of an Integrated Financial Management and Information System.


                                                           21
Service will promote a merit-based civil service and enhance public administration delivery
quality.

Finally, while the Macroeconomic Unit at the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration ­
which was one of the institutional-strengthening achievements under the previous series ­ got off
to a weak start owing to a lack of resources and an over-extension of its responsibilities, its
performance in macroeconomic monitoring and management improved under PRSC-4 and will
strengthen Cape Verde's macroeconomic planning in the medium- to long-run.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

Substantial progress has been made in deconcentrating budget execution to sector ministries,
thanks to the very efficient financial integrated system in place.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

There are several risks to sustainability. These include: (i) a decline in the tourism, foreign direct
investment, and remittances needed to fuel growth as a result of the global economic slowdown;
(ii) the fiscal threat posed by ELECTRA; (iii) delays to pass into law several significant reforms
needed to establish the basis of the legal and institutional framework needed for the ongoing
MTEF and the PFM reform processes (e.g., Budget Framework Law); (iv) the negative economic
and environmental threat posed by the Government's lack of a clear strategy on sustainable
tourism development and for dealing with the significant scale of illegal sand extraction;41 and
(v) capacity weaknesses.

Despite these potential risks, the risk to development outcome for PRSC-4 is rated moderate.
While the credit was a stand-alone operation, its reform measures were enacted as part of a
progressive and integrated series of reforms that were sequentially introduced under the prior
series of PRSCs. As such, PRSC-4's measures are integrated into a broader set of reform
measures, thereby enforcing their sustainability. In addition, there are a number of factors that
mitigate against the specific risks outlined above. They are:

        Cape Verde's strong record of fiscal discipline, proactive economic management and
        cautious monetary policy is supplemented by the buildup of foreign exchange reserves in
        recent years; the country's standing line of credit with the Central Bank of Portugal
        (equivalent to about one month of imports); and its access to budget support from the
        BSG. In addition, the Government has indicated its intent to continue with economic

41
  While environmental governance is not part of the Bank program with the Government, it is closely monitored in
the context of the BSG, and is thus part of the policy dialogue between the Government and its development
partners.


                                                      22
         monitoring under the IMF's PSI program until 2013.42 This monitoring will focus on
         reducing macroeconomic risks, providing a margin of safety against exogenous shocks,
         and addressing the prospects of a longer-term decline in highly concessional external
         support. Macroeconomic performance remained satisfactory in 2009, despite the global
         slowdown. The fiscal risks posed by ELECTRA will be mitigated by several factors,
         including the IMF's PSI program, which will continue to address the risk of contingent
         liabilities. In addition, an upcoming Bank energy project will focus on the financial
         sustainability of the energy sector, and a time-bound action plan will be articulated and
         implemented under the PRSC-5 to clear ELECTRA's arrears to suppliers within four
         years.
         The Government's commitment to continued poverty reduction through the GPRSP-II,
         which was finalized in mid-2008 and will cover the 2008-11 period, and which builds on
         the reforms enacted to date.
         The results-focused dialogue between the Government and donors, including the Bank, in
         the context of both the next series of PRSCs and other donor budgetary support to aid
         implementation of the next phase of the Government's poverty reduction program.
         The GPRSP-II's alignment with the budgeting process, thereby better ensuring that the
         program's poverty-related objectives can be financed.
         The development and implementation of a well-balanced infrastructure master plan, in
         the context of the GPRSP-II, to help ensure that tourism growth occurs in a sustainable
         fashion.
         The continued provision of external technical assistance from the Bank, the IMF, and
         other donors for capacity building.

Finally, the continued use of the BSG and a joint policy matrix will continue to reduce
transaction costs for the Government, helping it to offset capacity constraints and keeping free
administrative resources that can be focused on further poverty reduction efforts.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

PRSC-4 was a well-designed operation that followed ­ and was highly integrated with ­ a series
of credits that were developed in close cooperation with the GPRSP-I process and which were
based on a highly participatory exercise. As noted in Section 3 above, PRSC-4 was highly
consistent with Bank and donor priorities and was developed in close concert with the
Government and the other BSG partners. The Program Document was closely linked to the
harmonized donors' joint matrix which clearly specified the operation's medium-term objectives,
policy measures and actions, indicators, and benchmarks.

42
  The Cape Verdean authorities have requested an extension of the PSI for at least four more years until 2013 (i.e., a
one-year extension of the current PSI followed by a new three-year program).


                                                         23
The prior actions were directly drawn from this matrix, and reflected areas where the Bank had a
comparative advantage. These actions were appropriately limited in number, ensuring that they
could be feasibly met in the short-term. The Program Document did not just specify the prior
actions but also made explicit both the indicators and the outcome of each action, reflecting a
clearly thought out and well-integrated series of policy measures. PRSC-4 also explicitly
incorporated the good practice principles on conditionality into program design and
implementation, 43 and as noted, this design also incorporated the lessons learned from the
previous series of operations.44

The use of budgetary support through a harmonized donor framework was highly appropriate to
country circumstances, as it both reduced the transaction costs and distortions inherent to
international assistance to a small-size country, as well as improved the functioning of the
national budget system. While PRSC-4 ­ like the operations preceding it -- was not fully aligned
with the Cape Verdean budget cycle, this misalignment dates to the PRSC-1, and the 2006
elections prevented the realignment of this operation with the budgetary calendar. Consequently,
the lack of alignment does not reflect a weakness in PRSC-4 program design; moreover, this
non-alignment was mitigated by announcing the total amount of Bank support at the beginning
of the preparation of the 2008 budget, enabling the Government to include this amount in its
annual budget preparation.

PRSC-4 was prepared in close coordination with the IMF and the IMF PSI reviews, and the
Bank worked closely with the Fund in areas of operational overlap to ensure that consistent
technical advice was provided to the authorities. Finally, there was strong staff continuity from
the PRSC-1-3 operations, including at the team leader level, thus preserving the "institutional
memory" associated with these operations, as well as the working relationships with the
Government and other budget support donors. 45

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision was carried out in the context of the BSG, including through: (i) the joint matrix
between the BSG partners highlighting the main policy and result indicators supported by budget
support; (ii) bi-annual joint review missions; and (iii) preparation and discussion of joint Aide-

43
    These five principles ­ and the measures taken to ensure their incorporation into the program design ­ were set
forth in the program document. They were: reinforce ownership; agree up front with the government and other
financial partners on a coordinated accountability framework; customize the accountability framework and
modalities of Bank support to country circumstances; choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions
for disbursement; and conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-based
financial support.
44
   For example, the lesson regarding the need to find "ways to provide technical assistance at short notice for
capacity building" was addressed through the up-front establishment of a second TF. Similarly, the Bank customized
its support and dialogue to country circumstances; while the Labor Code was an originally identified as a policy area
to be addressed by the operation, the Bank demonstrated flexibility by dropping this area once the Government
achieved consensus on a Labor Code, even though some provisions of the Code were not optimal from a
competitiveness standpoint.
45
   The 11-member PRSC-4 team included seven staff members who had worked at a minimum on PRSC-3, and in
some cases on the prior PRSCs as well.


                                                        24
Memoires. The use of the joint streamlined matrix (which included all Bank prior actions)
provided a common basis for discussion, evaluation of progress, and disbursement; it also
facilitated and strengthened coordination. The bi-annual joint reviews enabled consensus
building and reduced transactions costs for the Government, and program reviews paid particular
attention to results by closely monitoring indicators in the matrix. The quality and thoroughness
of supervision was high, as evidenced by the highly detailed Aide-Memoires produced after each
joint review mission. On the Bank side, the quality of supervision was aided by the continuity
between the lending and supervisory teams, which ensured strong familiarity with the program
objectives and anticipated outcomes.

Under PRSC-4, the quality of donor harmonization and alignment continued to improve. There
was a formal division of labor between the BSG partners, 46 and by end-2008, the six
longstanding budget support partners (three multilateral and three bilateral) had completed seven
joint missions together (supplemented by Portugal as an observer in 2007 and as a formal
member in 2008). A review by the BSG partners of their performance concluded that all BSG
members better adhered to the mutual obligations articulated in the MoU and were better
prepared, thereby positively affecting the review process and the quality of engagement with the
Government.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

PRSC-4 was a well-designed and implemented operation. It was highly relevant to Bank and
Cape Verdean priorities and continued to build on the reform progress achieved under the
previous PRSCs, notably in the areas of financial management, civil service reform and M&E.
The continued harmonization of donor support and the further expansion of the BSG further
improved the predictability of budgetary support to the Government and the Bank has continued
to play a key role in harmonizing aid to Cape Verde through the BSG. The need for continued
capacity building support was anticipated upfront, and was addressed through the establishment
of a second Trust Fund. Finally, there was strong continuity in the PRSC team between this
operation and the previous series of operations, aiding project execution and stability, and
relations with the Government authorities and between the Bank and its BSG partners were
excellent. As Bank performance for both quality at entry and supervision was rated satisfactory,
overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

Note: According to the ICRR Guidelines, if Government and the implementing agency are
indistinguishable, particularly for DPL operations, a rating and justification is provided only for
Overall Borrower Performance, as is done in Section (c) below.



46
   Under the MoU between the BSG partners, there is a rotating chair with responsibility for assisting the
coordinator on the Government side to prepare the program for the supervisory missions, while the Bank serves as
the technical coordinator.


                                                      25
(a) Government Performance

Rating: (See Note above)

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: (See Note above)

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Government performance was satisfactory. PRSC-4 supported the implementation of the last
year of the GPRSP-I, which itself was built on a well-articulated, consistent, and analytical set of
strategies and priorities that directly addressed the country's main development challenges.
Government ownership was strong and the GPRSP-I had been developed through an intensive
consultation process and was widely disseminated throughout Cape Verde. Moreover, the
household survey, which provided much of the baseline information used to monitor results,
benefitted from an information campaign considered best practice; the sectoral strategies were
developed after open debate and consultations with both national and international stakeholders;
and civil society was often included in specialized bodies (e.g., the GPRSP Coordinating
Commission).

Economic growth remained strong under PRSC-4, fiscal policy was consistent with
macroeconomic stability and debt sustainability, and further progress was made on arrears
clearance. Government relations with the BSG partners continued to be excellent, and the
Government also exhibited a more focused approach during the PRSC-4 supervisory missions
(as evidenced by the provision of a comprehensive briefing in May 2008 on the major areas of
progress since the prior mission). There was also some improvement in M&E capabilities,
offsetting an area of considerable weakness in Government performance under PRSC-1-3.
Finally, GPRSP-II (2008) preparation was inclusive (although donors were not included in the
validation process); drew on the lessons learned from the implementation of the first poverty
program; and the Bank-Fund Joint Staff Advisory Note of the GPRSP-II concluded that it
provides a comprehensive and integrated strategy for achieving its poverty reduction goals.

Less positively, the automatic adjustment mechanism for petroleum products is still not applied
as required by law; several pieces of legislation important to improving the public finance
management legal framework have not yet been approved by the Parliament (e.g., the
Decentralization Law, the Budget Framework Law, and the Organic Law on the Court of
Auditors); and the quality of the secondary legislation needed for civil service reform remains an
area of concern. Moreover, despite persistent capacity weaknesses, the Government did not take
full advantage of the Bank's capacity-building TF. While this resulted in part due to problems in
capacity absorption, it also reflects an inability within Government to reach a decision on
priorities. For example, an activity on M&E and one on social protection were not implemented
(even though TORs were well advanced) because some other activities were competing for those
resources.



                                                26
Justification for Rating: ICRR Guidelines (Appendix A) identify nine criteria for rating
Government performance. Overall Government performance is rated satisfactory in accordance
with these criteria:

       Government ownership and commitment to achieving the development objectives was
       broadly strong.
       The enabling environment included supportive macro, sectoral, and institutional policies.
       Stakeholders and civil society were consulted extensively at the beginning of the GPRSP-
       I development, and again in the formation of the GPRSP-II.
       The Government had adequate readiness for implementation and capacity.
       Fiduciary requirements were met satisfactorily.
       Most implementation issues were resolved on a timely basis.
       The relationships and coordination with the Bank and other donors through the BSG were
       excellent throughout.
       The GPRSP-II should provide a comprehensive framework for continued growth and
       poverty reduction and transition to the next series of operations.
       While Cape Verde's performance on the ninth criteria -- M&E arrangements, including
       the utilization of M&E data in decision-making and resource allocation ­ remains weak,
       there has been some improvement in both the Government's capability and commitment
       to effective M&E.

6. Lessons Learned

A number of the lessons learned from the previous series of PRSCs are still applicable to this
operation. They are:

       Budget support has been catalytic in harmonizing aid to Cape Verde and budget support
       continues to be highly relevant to the Cape Verdean context. The use of budgetary
       support enabled the Government to finance key parts of the GPRSP that would be
       difficult to finance through an investment loan or single sector development policy
       operation. An additional advantage is the ability to embed sector policy within cross-
       cutting issues such as civil service reform, improved expenditure management, and
       decentralization to increase the sustainability and impact on service delivery.
       Budgetary support proved to be a powerful instrument to unify donor assistance and
       dialogue around a core set of policy actions Specifically, the provision of harmonized
       budget support through the BSG clearly reduced (although not eliminated, owing to the
       size of the missions) transaction costs for the Government through a reduction in the
       number of visiting missions and country-specific reporting requirements. This is
       particularly important for a small country like Cape Verde where the public sector can be
       easily overwhelmed by aid and requests from donors.

In addition, the following lessons can be added:

       Once established, a budgetary support group is itself a developmentally useful
       institutional mechanism for effectively addressing poverty reduction. Not surprisingly,
       the quality of coordination among budget support donors can ­ with good will ­ improve


                                               27
        over time: by the time that the six longstanding budget support partners had completed
        their sixth joint mission, the BSG members were better prepared and more clearly
        fulfilling their obligations under the MoU. Consequently, the improved harmonization
        had a positive impact on the quality of engagement and dialogue with the Government.
        Budget support is a sophisticated instrument which requires governmental capacity to
        design and implement reforms and to monitor their impact. The reliance on national
        systems also raises capacity issues at all stages of the budget cycle, which were
        compounded in the Cape Verdean context by the limited number of technical staff and
        the high turnover of senior staff in several core ministries. Offsetting these constraints
        requires a combination of capacity building and technical support.47
        Greater focus should be given to M&E implementation and utilization. PRSC-4 ­ and
        the PRSC series that preceded it ­ has not yet resulted in a fully functioning M&E system
        in Cape Verde. Accordingly, more attention needs to be given up front to the measures
        needed to ensure the effective implementation of M&E.48

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




47
   Accordingly, the FY09-12 Country Partnership Strategy for Cape Verde sets forth a broader menu of specialized
technical assistance, including in the areas of procurement, central government internal audit skills, and municipal
level technical and managerial capacity.
48
   This lesson learned has already been incorporated into the design of PRSC-5, under which effective statistics and
M&E are part of the set of prior actions, thereby elevating them to a higher level of importance.


                                                        28
       Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                       Responsibility/
        Names                                 Title                     Unit
                                                                                         Specialty
Lending
                                                                                Macroeconomics, Public Finance
Manuela Francisco           TTL, Country Economist                     AFTP4
                                                                                Management
Hélène Grandvoinnet         Sr. Public Sector Specialist               AFTPR    Public Sector Management
                                                                                Public Administration and
Tony Verheijen              Sr. Public Sector Specialist               AFTPR
                                                                                Decentralization
Maurizia Tovo               Lead Technical Specialist                 AFTH2     Social Protection & Labor
Ghislaine Delaine           Sr. Statistician                          AFTQK     M&E
Bourama Diaite              Sr. Procurement Specialist                AFTPC     Procurement
Eric Yoboue                 Sr. Procurement Specialist                AFTPC     Procurement
Stéphane Legros             Public Health Specialist                  WBIHD     Health
Luz Meza-Bartrina           Sr. Counsel                               LEGAF     Legal & Judicial Issues
Wolfgang Chadab             Sr. Finance Officer                       LOAFC     Disbursement
Judite Fernandes            Language Program Assistant                AFTP4     Team Assistant
Supervision
                                                                                Macroeconomics, Public Finance
Manuela Francisco           TTL, Country Economist                     AFTP4
                                                                                Management
Hélène Grandvoinnet         Sr. Public Sector Specialist               AFTPR    Public Sector Management
                                                                                Public Administration and
Tony Verheijen              Sr. Public Sector Specialist               AFTPR
                                                                                Decentralization
Maurizia Tovo               Lead Technical Specialist                 AFTH2     Social Protection & Labor
Ghislaine Delaine           Sr. Statistician                          AFTQK     M&E
Bourama Diaite              Sr. Procurement Specialist                AFTPC     Procurement
Eric Yoboue                 Sr. Procurement Specialist                AFTPC     Procurement
Stéphane Legros             Public Health Specialist                  WBIHD     Health



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                    Stage                                                       USD Thousands (including
                                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY08                                                      35                            184.10
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                                       6                             12.40
                                      Total                 41                            196.50




                                                           29
                  Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                  30
                  Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                        31
        Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

"The Government has two comments:


1. The Reforms in place are very complex which demand efforts not only from the
Government but also from all stakeholders, including the Parliament. Therefore, some of
Reforms in place demand more time to be implemented.

2.   We agree with the findings of the ICR."




                                               32
         Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

"I have read the Implementation Completion Report that you sent me and agree with the findings.
The working relationship we developed with the World Bank team in the framework of the joint
reviews in Cape Verde in 2008 was excellent and efficient."




                                             33
         Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents (in chronological order)


   Joint Mission Budget Support Group, Aide Memoire, 29 June, 2007.
   Concept Note, Proposed Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit, November 12, 2007.
   Joint Mission Budget Support Group, Aide Memoire, 6 December 2007.
   Joint Mission Budget Support Group, Aide Memoire, 30 May 2008.
   Program Document, "Proposed Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit," Report No.
   43495-CV, June 9, 2008.
   Joint IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note of the Second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper,
   Report No. 43927-CV, June 9, 2008.
   Corrigendum, Cape Verde ­ Second Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and
   Joint IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note, IDA/SecM2008-0429/1, July 2, 2008.
   Implementation Completion and Results Report, Cape Verde Poverty Reduction Support
   Credit 1, 2, and 3 (PRSC-1, PRSC-2, PRSC-3), Report No: ICR0000765, October 30,
   2008.
   Joint Mission Budget Support Group, Aide Memoire, 12 December 2008.
   "Cape Verde: Country Partnership Strategy for the Period FY09-12," Report No. 47750-
   CV, March 25, 2009.
   Program Document (Concept Version), "Proposed PRSC V ­ Growth Support," April 13,
   2009.




                                        34
                                                                       25°W                                                                   24°W                                                        23°W
                                                                                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                      RIBEIRA                                                                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                     GRANDE                          Ribeira Grande                                                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                        Vila das Pombas                                                                                                                    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                       Ribeira da Cruz                        PAÚL
                                                 Lajes                     Santo Antão
                17°N                         (1803 m)            Porto Novo                                                                                                                                                                                          17°N
                                 PORTO
                                 NOVO
                                                               Mindelo         SÃO VINCENTE

                                                                                                                       WIND
                                                                                 Calhau
                                                         São Pedro         Madeiral
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sal
                                              São Vicente                                  Santa Luzia
                                                                                                                                             WA R                                                      Espargos

                                                                                                                               SÃO NICOLAU                D IS
                                                                               Ilhéu Branco
                                                                                                               Riberia Brava                                   LAN                                       SAL

                                                                                                                                                                   DS
                                                                                       Ilhéu Raso                                                                                                                    Santa Maria
                                                                                                                Tarrafal        Preguica

                                                                                                                               São Nicolau



                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sal-Rei
                                                                                                                   AT L A N T I C                     OCEAN                                                                         Norte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Norte
                                                                                                                                                                                                   BOA VISTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Boa Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Povocão Velha
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Povocã
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Povocão Velha
                16°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16°N




                          CAPE
                          VERDE




                                                                                                                       DS
                                                                                                             I  SLAN
                                                                                                     W A R D TARRAFAL São Tiago
                                                                                                 LEE
                                                                                                                              SANTA                                                                    Maio
                       CAP E V E RDE                                                                           SANTA
                                                                                                                              CRUZ
                                                                                                                                                       Tarrafal
                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAIO
                                                                                                                                                                       Santa Cruz
                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                          CATARINA                                 Vila do Maio
                                                                                                                                                      Santa Catarina
                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                        Mosteiros
                                                                                                                            Igreja
                                                                                          Ilhéus Do                                  MOSTEIROS                         São
                                                                                                                                                                       São Domingo
                                                                                            Rombo                                                                                                                                                                    15°N
                        RIVERS
                                                                                                                Mt. Fogo
                                                                                                               (2,829 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                  SÃO                                   0      10     20      30 Kilometers
                        MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                          PRAIA DOMINGOS
                                                                               Brava                                                                    PRAIA
DECEMBER 2004




                                                                                              Furna




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 33383
                                                                                                        São
                        COUNTY (CONCELHO) BOUNDARIES                          BRAVA                   Filipe                     SÃO FILIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0           10          20          30 Miles
                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                  Fogo
                                                                       25°W                                                                   24°W                                                        23°W
