Report No. PID663
Project Name                     Ecuador-Agricultural Census and (@) ...
Information System Technical Assistance
Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       ECPE7135
Borrower(s)                      The Government of Ecuador
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
(MAG) and the National Statistics and
Census Institute (INEC)
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 1, 2002
Projected Appraisal
Date                             Not applicable (supplemental financing)
Projected Board Date             Planned for March 26, 2002
1. Country and Project Background
Ecuador's agricultural sector is a major component of the
national economy. The agricultural sector's contribution to GDP
has remained fairly constant over the last decade at
approximately 17 per cent. The incidence of poverty is higher in
rural areas than in urban areas. Since agriculture is the
economic base of most rural areas, the agricultural sector is
important for both economic growth and social equity concerns.
The World Bank recognized the importance of the agricultural
sector and the linkages between the sector and rural poverty,
and decided to help financing the Agricultural Census and
Information System Technical Assistance Project. The project was
designed to meet the continuing demands for information and
analysis from the public and private sectors and, as part of
that effort, to conduct the agricultural census. The census was
not viewed as an independent, one-shot data collection and
publication effort, but as an integral element in the
construction of a reasonably complete information service for
the agricultural sector.
2. Objectives
The proposed supplemental financing would finance analysis and
dissemination of data, to facilitate access to information to
small producers, peasants, and indigenous farmers. This would
allow the project to achieve its original objective of reducing
information asymmetries (unequal access to information depending
on social level, geographical location, ethnical background, and
other factors, which is considered one of the causes of
persistent poverty) and contribute to democratization of
information.



3. Rationale for the Supplemental Loan
All six general conditions for supplemental financing for
Technical Assistance Operations established under OP13.20 have
been met:
(a)     The cost overrun is due to exceptional circumstances beyond
the Borrower's control.
The cost overrun was due to the particularly acute social
unrest in the country during most of the project
implementation period. During 1998 inflation exceeded 50
percent and the banking system came under severe strain. In
2000 the economy was dolarized, causing transition
difficulties. Political and social unrest provoked twice a
change in the Presidency of the Republic (Abdala Bucaram in
February 1997 and Jamil Mahuad in January 2000) after protests
which paralyzed the country for several months. Given the
impossibility to travel in rural areas, data collection had
been postponed for more than one year (from November 1999 to
February 2001). This caused a cost overrun, mostly to update
the sampling frame and to maintain the information system
working. The information system was needed before data
collection to identify demand for information and after
data collection to analyze and disseminate results.
Although the Agricultural Census was postponed, it was
considered inappropriate to suspend the information system
while waiting for data collection, because of its high start-
up costs. This caused an additional unplanned cost estimated
at $4.8million (less than 20 percent of the original project).
(b)    The Loan is being implemented in compliance with
covenants.
The Loan is in full compliance with all covenants. Excellent
project implementation performances are evident if compared to
the portfolio of investment operations in Ecuador. In terms
of disbursements, for instance, the project is now 3 months
ahead of schedule (8 percent).
(c)     It is impossible to reduce the scope of the project to fit
the available resources without significantly impairing the
project's economic viability or capacity to achieve its
objectives.
If project scope were reduced to data collection, it would not
achieve its development objective of improving access to
information to all social strata. Often data collected by
agricultural census remains available only to those users with
the capacity to find and analyze the information. Without a
deliberate and targeted effort to make collected information
available, smaller agricultural producers would have much more
difficulty to use Census information than larger producers.
(d)     The borrower is unable to finance the additional costs and
to obtain additional funds from other lenders on reasonable
terms or in reasonable time.
Ecuador has undergone a difficult adjustment period, carries a
heavy debt burden, and outside funding is limited. Only
minimal additional resources are available to respond to the
above need. These resources would be matched with the
additional financing to be provided by the proposed
-2 -



Supplemental Loan.
(e)     The time available is too short to process a further free-
standing Bank Loan.
Data processing and analysis should take place immediately
after data collection, since one aspect of data quality is
timely availability which is a declared project objective.
(f)     The Borrower is committed to the project, and the
implementing agencies have demonstrated competence in carrying
it out.
Borrower's commitment has been proven during the whole project
implementation period. An example is that INEC postponed the
Population Census (initially planned for the year 2000) to
avoid overlapping with the Agricultural Census. In addition,
the President of the Republic wrote a emphatic request for the
Supplemental Financing in July 2001. This was also
reconfirmed by a letter of the Minister of Finance in August
2001. The capacity of implementing agencies has been
demonstrated by the successful data collection effort, a
significant logistical challenge which was carried out with
great professionalism. Finally, there is great expectation in
different sectors about the potential offered by the current
project.
4. Description
1.      The proposed supplemental financing would provide
resources for the following five activities.
(i)     Analysis of data (US$1.4 million). The objective of this
activity would be to fully carry out the originally planned
analysis of the "raw" data collected by the Census.    "Raw"
data is a database which requires analysis to be of use to
the general public. The analysis would provide different
levels of aggregation through a Geographic Information System
to simplify access to information.
(ii)    Dissemination of analyzed data (US$1.3 million). This
activity would allow to fully carry out the originally
planned dissemination of analyzed data to reduce information
asymmetries. Dissemination would be through two main
channels which have already been developed under the project:
the internet and a network of radios. The radio network
would further emphasize the current targeting of small
producers, developing programs in indigenous languages.
(iii)   Consultative Councils (US$2.6 million). This activity
would continue to finance regular meetings of the
"Consultative Councils." These are fora for dialogue between
public and private sector on agricultural policy. The
dialogue has contributed to reduce sectoral conflicts, which
contributed in part to a reduced number of strikes and rural
protests. This benefit is a direct consequence of policy
discussions and consultations based on reliable data,
limiting manipulations and increasing the level of
confidence. This activity would be implemented in strict
collaboration with the private sector, which would increase
its current participation to financing.
(iv)    Additional Agricultural Production Survey (0.7 million).
- 3 -



The Agricultural Census was carried out in an atypical year,
consequence of the social unrest, banking crisis, and
dolarization of the economy. To confirm the validity of
business cycle data (such as data on production and
productivity) and validate the results of the Agricultural
Census, it is essential to carry out an additional
Agricultural Production Survey. This survey would prove the
validity of data on yields, income, employment, and food
security.
(v)     Project Administration (US$1.2 million). This activity will
finance project management and administration. It will be
carry out procurement, financial management and audit for the
whole project.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               1.2
IBRD                     4.8
Private Sector           1.2
Total Project Cost       7.2
6. Implementation
Under the supplemental financing the project implementation
arrangements will remain the same as in the original project,
with MAG, and its project coordination unit, overseeing project
implementation. The Supplemental Loan will be implemented over a
period of two years, extending the closing date of the project
from September 30, 2002 to September 30, 2004.
7. Sustainability
The Agricultural Census and directly related activity are
periodic investments, which will not require any further
activity for at least the next 10-15 years. Nonetheless, the
information system activities will require constant albeit
limited operation and maintenance to continue providing the
expected benefits. The proposed supplemental financing will
enhance the efforts to achieve sustainability of these operation
and maintenance activities.
Sustainability of public sector activities is based on an
increased involvement of permanent staff of MAG and INEC into
project activities. These permanent staff will gradually take
over the responsibility for operation and maintenance of the
agricultural Information System. A significant effort on
training has been devoted to this objective. In addition, the
cost of the permanent staff assigned to project activities has
been accounted into project costs to facilitate monitoring
during implementation. In addition, the budgeting of project's
counterpart funds (pari-pasu) will be tied to MAG and INEC. This
will improve the position of the two institutions to negotiate
the continuation of this budget allocation after project
closing.
-4-



Financing from the private sector will contribute to
sustainability of project activities. The "Consultative
Councils" represent an example of public-private partnership,
where private sector financing contributes to sustainability.
The Supplemental Loan would strengthen this collaboration by
gradually increasing private sector financing for the
Consultative Councils. Although private sector financing will be
exclusively in kind (such as the use of meeting facilities,
production of report and studies by private sector consultants,
transport costs and similar), they have been accounted into
project costs to facilitate monitoring during implementation.
The planned disbursements of the different source of funds shown
in the following table demonstrates a gradual shifting from the
World Bank Supplemental Loan toward private and government, thus
gradually reducing the dependency on World Bank financing.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The main lessons reflected in project design were learned during
the implementation of the ongoing project. In addition, the
Agricultural Knowledge and Information System experience of the
World Bank and FAO contributed to project design.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
The project is not expected to cause an environmental
impact.
Participation under the proposed Supplemental Loan is built
into the project in three ways. First, the agricultural census
is responding to users' demands which have been gathered
throughout a number of consultation processes with interest
group organizations (gremios) and small producers associations.
Second, the Consultative Councils represent an important element
of participation and dialogue among different associations of
small and large producer, agro-industry, exporters,
universities, and public institutions. Thirdly, the established
coordination with SIISE of the Social Cabinet increases analysis
and dissemination with emphasis on social groups such as
Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian people, gender and youth.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Maurizio Guadagni
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-7155
Fax: 202-522-0262
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
-5-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be
included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 8, 2002.
-6-



