Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: T-7212-EC
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CENSUS AND INFORMATION SYSTEM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
DECEMBER 12, 1997
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(September 1997)
Currency Unit = Sucre (S/)
Exchange Rate
USS1.00 = S/4085.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFPS          Agricultural Farm Production Survey
AS            Ad hoc Survey
ASC           Agricultural Sample Census
ASP           Agricultural Sector Program (Interamerican Development Bank)
ASRP          Agricultural Sector Reorientation Project (United States Agency for
International Development)
DURS          Data Users' Requirements Survey
FISE          Social Emergency Investment Fund
FES           Farm Expenditure Survey
GIS           Geographic Information System
GOE           Government of Ecuador
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IMPS          Integrated Microcomputer Processing System (United States Bureau of
the Census, BUCEN)
INANIHI       National Meteorology and Hydrology Institute (Instituto Nacional de
Meteorologia e Hidrologia)
IsEC          National Statistics and Census Institute (Instituto Nacional de
Estadisticasy Censos)
IT           Information Technology
LAN           Local Area Network
LSMS          Living Standard Measurement Survey
MAG           Ministry of Agriculture
MTR           Mid-Term Review
PIS           Planting Intention Survey
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
SEAN          National System of Agricultural Statistics (Sistema de Estadistica
Agricola Nacional)
SICA          Agricultural Census and Information Service (Servicio de Informaci6ny
Censo Agropecutario)
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
SPIS          Sector Policy and Investment Undersecretariat (Subsecretaria de
Politicas e Inversi6n Sectorial) (MAG)
TA            Technical Assistance
TOR           Terms of Reference
TS            Technical Secretariat
UPA           Agricultural Production Unit (Unidad de Producci6n Agropecuaria)



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CENSUS AND INFORMATION SYSTEM TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Page No.
1. DETAIL PROJECT DESCRIPTION ...........                                         1
BACKGROUND .1
Need for Good Analysis and Reliable Information             .1
Rationale for Bank Involvement                      .2
Participatory Approach                          .3
Project Objectives                            .3
Project Components ..........................................:.3
2. PROJECT COST, ADMINISTRATION, AND BENEFITS .15
COST AND FINANCING .15
Cost.15
Financing .16
Financial Implications for the Government .16
Procurement .17
Disbursement .19
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION .21
Project Management .21
Project Inplementation .23
Accounting and Auditing .23
Monitoring and Supervision .24
PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .25
Project Benefits .25
Project Risks .27
Environmental Category .27
3. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .28
Vice President:                   Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Director, Country Management Unit Mr. Andres Solimano
Director, Sector Management Unit  Ms. Maritta Koch-Weser
Task Manager                      Mr. Surajit Goswami
This report is based on the findings of two World Bank appraisal missions visiting Ecuador in April
1995 and August, 1997. The mission comprised Messrs. /Mmes. S. Goswami, M. Guadagni, D.
Hoyle. Peer reviewers are Ms. K. Scott (PRDPH), and Mr. R. Kocharekar (ITSCS).



Page No.
ATTACHMENTS
1.    - Data Collection Activities ................................,. ,. 29
2.    - Implementing Institutions ...............................                             32
3.    - Data User R equirements Study ............................... . ,40
4.  - Planned Meteorological Stations .44
5.  - Technical Assistance and Consulting Services .45
6.    - Project Costs Tables ........................                                         49
7. - Disbursment Profile .63
8.    - Monitoring and Evalution Indicators ........................                          64
9. - Project Implementation Schedule .69
TABLES
1.    - Cost Comparison Among Recent Agricultural Censuses in the Region .10
2.  - Project Costs Summary by Components .15
3.    - Annual Estimated Inflation Rate (%) ........................                          15
4. - Financing Plan .,                                                                        16
5 - Procurement Methods .17
6.    - Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review (US$) .19
7. - Estimated IBRD Disburseents .19
8. - Summary of Disbursement Schedule .20
9. - Number of Interviews .25
FIGURES
1. - Project Management Structure .22
3. - MAG Organizational Chart .33
4. - INEC Organizational Chart .38
MAP IBRD MAP No. 28022



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CENSUS AND INFORMATION SERVICE TA PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
1. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
BACKGROUND
1.1   In 1996, the agricultural sector (comprising crops, livestock, forestry, and fisheries)
contributed 17 percent of Ecuador's GDP, 47 percent of total exports and provided
employment for 31 percent of the economically active population. Sector growth responded
well to the major efforts of the eighties to reform the economy. The abandonment of import-
substitution industrialization and the liberalization of the exchange rate help explain why
agricultural GDP grew at 4.0 percent annually from 1982-93, up from only 2.5 percent p.a.
from 1973-81. However in recent years growth has slowed. The average growth rate for
1993-1996 was 3.4 percent p a., ranging from -1.7 percent in 1992-93 to 3.9 percent in 1993-
94. The years of strong growth are associated with booms in banana and shrimp. Increasing
domestic production problems and external market difficulties cloud the outlook for both.
Sector growth is currently falling short of its potential. Productivity growth has remained low,
and production increases are largely derived from an expansion of area under cultivation. The
key to addressing this broad problem of unrealized sector growth lies in improving
productivity.
1.2   Improvements in sector productivity require a sound policy environment. In this
context, parallel to the Government's stabilization program, which commenced in 1992, a
reform program was initiated in the agricultural sector. This has advanced satisfactorily: the
Agricultural Development Law was passed, price controls on all agricultural products were
eliminated, entrance to the OMC was approved, import restrictions on agricultural
commodities were reduced and rationalized, and the Ministry of Agriculture was restructured
and reduced in size. While these measures tend to provide the correct incentives for the
adoption of productivity increasing technologies by the private agricultural sector, a widespread
improvement in productivity requires the government provide key public goods. One of these
vital public goods is information, upon which farmers, traders, processors, and financial agents,
and the government itself can make decisions. This becomes particularly important as the
Government moves away from its past broad programs of investments to more targeted
interventions aimed at helping poor and indigenous people. Unfortunately, the information
base for public policy and investment decision making in the agricultural sector in Ecuador is
out-of-date, not disaggregated, and frequently inaccurate. For private decision- makers the
situation, if anything, is even worse. Sound, basic information for establishing price
expectations is practically nonexistent.
1.3    Need for Good Analysis and Reliable Information. While there has always been a
need for reliable data on which to base decisions, this need is much stronger in today's global
economy. In a system of open trade, economies become more vulnerable to external shocks
from, say, an appreciation of the exchange rate or a sharp fall in commodity prices. Based on
the experiences of other countries, such as Colombia and more recently Peru and Chile,
Governments in newly opened economies can face enormous pressures, especially in the
agricultural sector, to reinstate protection and backslide on reforms following shifts in the terms



2
of trade. Even though all sections of the agricultural community are not affected adversely, one
needs to avoid the buildup of potential pressure that can lead to backtracking by initiating a
program of highly targeted interventions, and implementing policies directed at the affected
groups. This requires accurate pinpointing of the problem for a certain region and/or
commodity and presupposes the existence of reliable disaggregated data. Data available in
Ecuador are not up to this task.
1.4   Poverty alleviation interventions by Government also require such targeting. In spite of
the substantial progress in macroeconomic and sector policies, underperformance of the
economy in recent years has worsened the structural problems of rural poverty. Preliminary
results from the recent poverty assessment mnission indicate that reduction in aggregate
spending has involved cutbacks to the poor. Moreover, studies also show that the indigenous
people continue to derive fewer benefits from govemment programs. Although some changes
in the pattem of public spending have been introduced to protect the vulnerable poor, mainly in
the from of matching grants such as through FISE, public funds have not been systematically
directed at poverty and the needs of the indigenous people. One of the reasons behind
inefficient targeting and formulation of public sector strategy is the lack of reliable information
necessary for effective interventions.
1.5    The last Agricultural Census was conducted in 1974 and the data set no longer
provides a sound basis for decision making. Currently, many public programs rely on small-
surveys but the quality of all small-surveys, including LSMS, depends on the frames upon
which their sampling is based. Existing frames render most of these surveys unreliable at best.
Large-surveys and censuses are required to improve the quality of the frames so that
subsequent small-samples can be representative of the "population"(the group of households,
farms, or individuals from which samples are drawn for statistical measurement). To retain the
efficiency of small surveys in their representation, even in a stable environment, information on
the structure of the population has to be updated every five to ten years. As such, the
Government is unable to plan targeted interventions or to develop policies to benefit selected
group in society. As Ecuador's economy becomes more sophisticated, targeted interventions,
as opposed to subsidies to large groups, will become more important. Finally, the weak data
on rural areas adversely affects private sector decision making as well. The lack of reliable
data on planting intentions and agro-climatic trends leads to wrong decisions and higher costs
of operation than would be the case with improved information.
RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
1.6    The project would be the first Bank project to strengthen the rural information systems
in Ecuador. Because of the Bank's long experience in helping developing countries in
economic policy making, including agriculture and rural poverty alleviation in countries
opening their economies, it is uniquely positioned to help Ecuador develop its capability. The
Bank is particularly concerned about protectionist interests undoing reforms. Similarly, it is in
the Bank's interest to target public interventions efficiently. The proposed project would
provide the data, analyses, and the framework for further inquiry on agricultural policy issues
and issues involving the disenfranchised rural poor.
1.7    The proposed project is also consistent with the 1996 Bank Poverty Report and the
1993 Bank Agricultural Sector Review. They recommended: (i) redesigning public programs
to focus on the needs of the marginal population, particularly the rural poor, and indigenous
peoples, and (ii) developing an information service to irnprove the public sector's strategy
formulation, sector plan development, and investrnent planning and execution.



3
1.8    The private agricultural sector is embarking on a period of uncertainty. Trade
liberalization and the reduction in government intervention in agricultural markets make the
sector more vulnerable to conditions on the international and regional markets, fluctuations in
the exchange rate, and trade policies. Private sector uncertainty is increased by a general lack
of information on variables of interest to it. Information distribution is biased toward large
producers and agroindustrialists. The project would significantly increase the dissemination of
timely and accurate information targeted to the private sector.
1.9    Participatory Approach. The preparation effort used a " Data User's Requirement
Study" which helped define the needs of the potential users of the data (see Attachment 3).
During this study, the challenge was to help the participants--from both the public and private
sectors-translate their business understanding into articulated information requirements.
Direct interviews were used over questiomaires since they tend to be passed down to staff
assistants. These interviews focused upon critical success factors: existing priority information,
enhancements to existing information, and unmet requirements.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.10   The proposed technical assistance project aims to improve availability, consistency,
validity, and timeliness of agricultural information to facilitate the decision-making process in
both the public and private sectors. Information quality and accessibility would be improved
through: (i) the standardization of collection and processing methodologies to allow
comparability, cross-examination and verification; (ii) an efficient and user-friendly
dissemination network, and, (iii) production of demand-driven data analysis.
1.11   Reliable and up-to-date information would provide a solid base for Government's
policies by improving (i) policy analysis capacity; (ii) the formulation of sector strategies; (iii)
programs implementation through a better planning, monitoring and evaluation system; and,
(iv) the estimation of behavioral relationships in the agricultural sector. Inter-institutional
coordination is also an important project objective.
1.12   Timely and accurate relevant information would develop the private sector by (i)
promoting competition; (ii) reducing bias generated by powerful groups; (iii) lowering
transaction costs; and, (iv) improving resource allocation
PROJECT COMPONENTS
1.13   The project will provide technical and financial support to two governmental
institutions- the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) and the National Statistics and Census
institute (INEC). The project will support the conceptualization, collection, processing,
analysis and dissemination of agricultural and rural information through activities under five
project components:
(a)    Agricultural Policy Process (MAG, US$3.2 million,14% of base costs). This
component will: (i) strengthen sector policy analysis capacity; and, (ii)
strengthen the budget analysis and investment monitoring and evaluation
process at MAG.
(b)    Agricultural Information and Dissemination Service (MAG, US$3.0
million, 13% of base costs). This component will improve: (i) information



4
services on crops and livestock; (ii) market prices and news services of MAG,
(iii) agroclimatic impact evaluations; and (iv) MAG Computer Center services.
(c)   Agricultural Sample Census (INEC, US$11.6 million, 50% of base costs).
This component will support the design, preparation, and execution of the
national ASC and strengthen INEC's data processing capacity.
(d)   Agricultural Farm Production Survey (INEC, US$1.6 million, 7% of base
costs). This component will improve the national agricultural production
survey methodologically, speed processing turn-around, conduct two
production surveys per year to improve relevance for decision making, and
execute two farm expenditure surveys during the life of the project.
(e)    Project Management (US$3.8 million, 16% of base costs). This component
will design and implement the overall information service and establish and
operate the project management and implementation units, responsible for
coordination, planning, financial administration, monitoring, and evaluation.
1.14   The combined output of these separate components leads to a sector information
service for policy analysis and decision making. The information requirements for policy
analysis and decision making are largely determined from economic theory, country
experience, and the Data-User's Requirements. The primary classes of data and information
required are:
*  Dynamic Economic Variables. These include economic variables that can change
in the very short-term. Prices are the main element, and include macroeconomic
prices such as exchange and interest rates, and sector prices such as border prices,
international prices, domestic prices at the farm, wholesale, processor, consumer
levels, input prices. These are collected from secondary sources and by direct
observation, processed and organized by the Price and Market News Service,
under Component B.
*  Stock Variables. Changes in quantities are primary factors for explaining price
changes These include macroeconomic variables such as intemational reserves,
balance of payments, and monetary emission, and sector variables such as
commodity production and stock levels, area planted and harvested, yields,
commodity imports and exports in volume and value, fertilizer use, supply of
credit, area under irrigation, livestock numbers, etc. Intemational and regional
production and stocks of relevant commodities are also important. Changes in
weather conditions are an important factor in explaining commodity production and
yield changes. This data and information is collected from secondary sources and
from surveys, processed and organized, under Components B and D.
*  Structural Variables. These variables change but slowly overtime and describe the
characteristics of the production and marketing systems. They include such
variables as average farm size, number of farms by farm size, technology levels by
farm size, tenure characteristics, social and educational characteristics of farm
families, number and capacity of processors, sources of rural income, marketing
channels, income and expenditure pattems. This sort of data is provided by
relatively large sample surveys or census. Much of this data and information will
be supplied by the ASC, Component C of the project.



5
1.15   The above classes of information, well organized and timely, provide analysts and
decision makers with the data required to describe and understand a problem, forecast
alternative scenarios, and evaluate the impact of alternative interventions on target groups.
Public and private decision-makers rarely use data; they use the analysis of data. Data is
transformed into useful information by analysis. Thus, the project will strengthen the technical
capacity of the analytical units in the MAG, under Component A, as an essential feature of an
effective and useful information service.
COMPONENT A: AGRICULTURAL POLICY PROCESS
(US$3.24 million, 14 percent of base costs)
1.16   This component will finance equipment, technical assistance, training and incremental
operating costs for three MAG directorates: (i) Policy Analysis, (ii) Intemal and Extemal
Trade, and (iii) Planning, Investment and Budgeting. The component will strengthen the
capacity of MAG to appraise and evaluate the impact of sector policies and to disseminate the
results of these analyses. It will comprise the following two sub-components.
SUB-COMPONENT:                    A1-Sectoral and Trade Policy
IMPLEMENTING UNITS:               SICA/MAG and Policy Undersecretary
BASE COST:                        US$2.7 million
1.17   The sub-component will strengthen the capacity of the Policy Undersecretary to
evaluate, analyze, and provide the public and private agricultural sectors with information
relevant to the market situation and agricultural policies. The analyses and mformation will
include (i) market situation and outlook, (ii) macroeconomic, including exchange rate policy,
related to agriculture, (iii) sector, such as price and trade policy, and (iv) sub-sector and
product-specific policies related to market efficiency. It will produce and disseminate various
types of products, including situation and outlook, sector reviews, policy memoranda and
market analyses. These reports and analytical documents will be distributed to a wide audience
in the public and private sectors through publications, seminars, the press, and Internet.
1.18   This sub-component will be user oriented and will promote a dialogue between the
public and private sectors. The Data User's Requirements Study (see Attachment 3) indicates
that the private sector needs, in addition to data, the interpretative analysis of the same. Data
must be accompanied by a descriptive analysis that helps decision-makers understand the
impact of a policy or of market changes. Although the existing information system covers
some of these requirements, it is incomplete. The chief technical limitation is the capacity of
the team responsible for preparing policy memoranda and sector and sub-sector reviews. A
higher level of economic reasoning and application of analytical techniques is required. The
methodologies needed for policy memoranda include a policy analysis matrix, linear
programming, and analysis of single and multiple markets. Specifically, it is important to
understand the limitations of these techniques, to decide which is appropriate in each case, and
interpret the results. The project will provide training and technical assistance to the staff of the
Project to develop this capacity.
1.19   Similarly, dissemination of information will be significantly improved. Private
institutions (such as associations of producers, agroindustrialists, agricultural centers and
boards) will be used to distribute the reports among their members and a continuing and
systematic series of seminars will be held with these institutions. In addition to being venues
for providing the private sector with information and analysis, seminars also provide analysts
with feedback from the private sector, allowing an improved dialog between analysts and
clients. The demand for seminars, particularly by agricultural associations on the coast, on



6
topics related to the market oudook for products and trade liberalization, now outstrips the
response capacity of MAG.
1.20  The sub-component requirements include: (i) 34 person months of short-tem tecmical
assistance in economic trade policy, economic modeling and analysis, and extension
economics; (ii) short-term training courses; (iii) incremental staff and salaries; (iv) upgraded
1T facilities, including the purchase of 30 micro-computers and network installation; (v)
funding for seminars, publications, and information disseminaion to the private sector; (vi)
incremental operating costs; and (vii) support to extemal MS degree training in agricultural
economics.
SUB-COMPONENT:                   Sector Public Investment
IMPLEMENTATION UNITS             SICA/MAG, Sector InvestmentlMAG
Budget and Public Credit, Ministry of Finance
BASE COST:                       US$0.53 million
1.21   The purposes of this sub-component are to provide the GOE with the information and
analysis required to: (i) increase the capacity of MAG and the Finance Ministry to effecfively
monitor and evaluate the performance of MAG investments in programs, projects, and
services; (ii) link investment policy more closely to sector policies and priorities, (iii) target
policy and investments to vulnerable groups that require public support, and (iv) make greater
use of nongovenmnental agencies in agricultural and rura services. To attain these goals, the
project will set up a small budget analysis unit with staff capable of conducting the required
analysis.
1.22  The main products of this unit will be (i) annual analysis of the investment budget,
monitored according to sub-sector, region, target group, and type of investment; (ii) anmual and
semiannual analysis of MAG's budget (programming versus execution, region and beneficiary
groups); (ii) periodic reports on the cost-effectiveness of programs and projects; and, (iv)
periodic evaluations of the impact of programs and projects.
1.23   The sub-component requirements include: (i) 96 person months of long-term technical
assistance (national); (iii) short-term training; (iv) upgrading of IT facilities and purchase of 4
microcomputers; and (v) assistance with incremental operating costs; and (vi) incremental
salaries.
COMPONENT B: AGRICULTURAL INFORMATION AND DISSEMINATION
SERVICE
(USS2.99 million, 13 percent of base costs)
1.24  This component will provide support for the collection, processing, and organtion of
the basic agricultural statistics regarding crop and livestock production, area, yield, market
prices, production costs and weather. Four divisions of the MAG's Agricultural Information
Directorate are involved in the collection and processing of this information: (i) Agricultural
Statistics; (ii) Price and Market News Service; (ini) Agroclimatic Impact Evaluation; and, (iv)
Computer Center. The project will provide technical assistance, incremental staff and salaries,
training, logistical support 1T up-grading, and incremental operating cost support.



7
SUB-COMPONENT:            B 1: Agricultural Statistics
IMPLEMENTING UNIT:  SICA/MAG and Agicultural Infrnation Directorate
BASE COST:                US$0.66 million
1.25 The Project will support the Agricultural Stafistics Division (ASD) in the design,
implementation, and maintenance of the sector database. The database will be composed
largely from secondary sources: macroeconomic data from the Central Bank; agricultural
production data from INEC; price and weadter data from other sections of the MAG, etc. The
data and infonnation from the sector database will be diseminaed through vaious means,
including Intemet, publications, and statistical buletins.
1.26 The ASD will organize and disseminate this information through periodic statistical
buletins and reports. In addition, funding is provided for three specialized surveys for needs to
be determined during project implementatiorL
1.27 The sub-component requirements include: (i) 36 person months of a long-term
statistical advisor (national); (ii) 7 person months of short-term Technical Assistance; (iii)
incremental staff and salaries; (iv) support for the operating costs of data collection, processing
and dissemination; (v) upgrading of 1T facilities, including the purchase of 8 micro-computers;
and, (vi) short-term training.
SUB-COMPONENT:            B2: Market Price and News Service
IMPLEMENTING UNIT:  SICA/MAG and Agricultural Information Directorate
BASE COST:                USS0.58 million
1.28 The Market Price and News Service will provide relevant and timely informafion
services including the following: (i) summary reports of daily prices for a selected group of
important products; (ii) summary of weekly and monthly process for a full range of products;
and, (iii) a price consultation service that allows users to specify the markets and products in
which they are interested. Price information will also be provided through the Intemret
1.29 To improve the quality and timing of the information provided by the Market Prices
and News Service, the project will provide support in the following areas:
* Supervision and training of field personnel to improve the quality of the data.
* Standardization of methodologies and criteria for weights and measures of farm
produce to improve comparability.
* Collection and dissemination of non-price news that is relevant for understanding
the market situation. For example, weather conditions, strikes and communicatons
problems can affect the flow of produce to the market
* Improved dissemination of information through the use of radio and mass media to
reach small farmers. Radio is the most cost-effective dissemination method,
particularly in remote and mountainous areas.
* Upgrading of computer and communications equipment most of which has not
been upgraded since 1987, particularly in the field offices.



8
1.30  The sub-component requirements include: (i) 6 person months of short-term twhnical
assnce in market news services; (ii) 24 person morns of long-term national tecical
sstace; (ii) upgrading the 1T system and isaing a network to link headquarters and fidd
offices and purchase of 10 computers; (iv) procurmet of 1 vehicle for field work and
supernsin; and, (v) assistance with incremenal costs of operation, supervision and
dissemnmation
SUB-COMNPONENT:                  B3: Agroclimatic Impact Evaluation
IMPLEMENTING UNfT:               Agroclimatic impact Evaluation Division
BASE COST:                       US$1.37 million
1.31 This division receives weather data, principally precipitation and temperature, from the
National Meteorology and Hydrology Institute (INAMI, and organizes and analyzes the data
in conjunction with crop phenology to determine the likely impact of weather anomalies and
variability on crop production. Because of the relatively low use of modern production inputs
and the small area under irrigation, weather and rainfall are primary determinants of crop
yields. The project will provide support to improve the collection, processing, analysis and
dissemination of this information. Specifically the project will:
*  Analyze, plan, and design the expansion and upgrading of the network of
meteorological stations in a cost-effective manner to increase geographical
coverage, accuracy and tifeliness. In a phased manner, up to 30 additional agro-
meteorological stations may be brought into the network. Initial installations would
take place in pnority agricultural areas, and expansion will depend upon the
evaluation of the effectiveness of the new system and the demonstrated capacity of
INAMH to maintain and operate the installations.
* Evaluate the purchase of a new satellite receiver system, which will permit the
transmission of data automatically collected by the meteorological stations through
the GOES-8 satellite.
*  Data elaboration with modem technologies, such as thematic maps.
* Implementation of an early warning service on climatic phenomena, such as frosts,
floods, or pests.
*  Monitoring and evaluation of information related to climatic anomalies, such as
droughts and El Ninlo.
*  Timely dissemination of results that are relevant to users' requirements.
1.32  The sub-component requirements include: (i) 8 person months of short-term technical
assistance in ago-meteorology; (ii) 36 person months of long-term technical assistance
(national); (iii) 4 short-term training courses in agro-meteorology; (iv) installation of up to
additional 35 automatic meteorological stations and a satellite antenna; and, (v) assistance with
incremental operating costs.



9 .
SUB-COMPONENT:             B4: Computer Center
IMLEENTING UNITS: SICA/MAG and Agricultural nformation Directorate
BASE COST:                 USSO.38 million
1.33   The computer center will provide tecmical asistnce, traiing, data processing
systems development and maintenance and repair services. Presenty, the lack of appropriae
equipment and technical capacty impede the effective accomplishment of these sevices. lhe
project uill help the Computer Center to improve the following services:
*  Mainace and repair. The division will maintain a reserve of the basic parts th
are needed to reduce equipment downtime.
* Training for computer users. A small and adequately equipped training center will
offer courses in standard software packages such as Windows, Excel, Word,
graphical packages, databases, network, and other special applications. Advanced
courses will also become available.
* Technical assistance for users. Direct support for all PC users in solving specific
hardware and software problems is a key factor to help MAG staff perform their
functions.
*  Systems development. The Computer Center has programmers able to devlop
and install specific systems. The project will provide technical assistance to update
the Center's capability to respond to the new demands that will arise with the new
equipment, software, and particularly with networks.
* Publications production. This service will graphically format and edit reports and
publications. By doing so, the technical staff of other divisions wiU be discharged
from these responsibilities, allowing them to dedicate more attention to the
technical detail of their tasks.
1.34   For technological modernization, the installation of Intemet and Intranet is paramount
Its justifications include lowered costs due to: (i) shared peripheral equipment; (ii) shared
software and reduction of license requirements and costs; and, (iii) an efficient multi-user
system for transferring ffles and information sharing. The project will provide equipment and
haning to install and operate this technology.
1.35   The sub-component requirements include: (i) 3 person/months of short-term technical
assstance in information admiation tion and management; (ii) 8 short-term training courses on
infomation management, survey processing, and information services; (ini) purchase of 13 new
computers, network facilities, desktop publishing facilities and specialized software; and, (iv)
assistance with operating costs.



10
COMPONENT C: AGRICULTURAL SAMPLE CENSUS
(US$11.6 million, 50 percent of base costs)
1.36  This component will provide technical and financial support for the Agricultural
Sample Census in all its stages, from design and preparation, through implementation and data
processing, to result dissemination. The component is divided into two sub-components: (CI)
Agricultural Sample Census, which covers preparation, implementation and result
dissemination and (C2) Data Processing, to strengthen and modernize the data processing
capabilities of INEC's computer center.
TABLE 1. COST COMPARISON AMONG RECENT AGRICULTURAL CENSUSES
IN THE REGION
TYPE OF      INTERVIEWS    TOTAL          COST PER
COUNTRY         YEAR         CENSUS         (FARMS)    COST (US$)  INTERVIEW
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        _ _ _ _ _ _ == _ _              U SS
USA                 1990    Mail Sample        2,100,000      63,000          30
ECUADOR             1999    Area Sample         250,000       10,660          43
Complete
MEXICO              1991    Enumeration        4,491,295      204,371         46
PUERTO RICO         1987     Complete
__________________ ___=====_L__ Enumeration      18,745        1,387          74
PUERTO RICO         1991    I Sample        1    2,550         479           188
SUB-COMPONENT                     Cl-Agricultural Sample Census
IMPLEMENTING UNIT:               Economic Statistics Directorate of INEC
BASE COST:                        US$10.66 million
1.37  The purpose of this sub-component is to support the collection of structural data on
Ecuadorian agriculture. These data include (i) production systems; (ii) on-farm resource use
(land, labor, capital, technology, and infrastructure), (iii) land tenancy; and, (iv) socio-economic
characteristics of the farm household.
1.38  The major preparation activity under this component is updating and completing the
Area Sampling Frame for the whole country. Satellite imagery will be used to update areas of
the country for which aerial photography is not available or not current, particularly the eastern
lowlands. Aerial photographs will be required for selected areas to complement the satellite
image. For cities and towns, cartographic information from the recent population and housing
census will be used to locate segments in these strata. Moreover, the use of a multiple
sampling frame that takes into consideration lists of producers will provide adequate coverage
of special products and/or producers.
1.39 The sample census will compile information from approximately 250,000
questionnaires administered throughout the country, out of a total of approximately 897,000
farms or Agricultural Production Units (UPAs) in Ecuador. The sample size has been
designed to optirnize data significance and mmimize costs by balancing sampling and non-
sampling error.



11
1.40   To reduce sampling errors, the information already available will be used to stratify the
sample. Accordingly, the sampling methodology will be based on a multiple sampling frame.
This methodology is a combination of the area sampling frame (where the population is
grouped in geographical units or strata) with a list of population (where the grouping is based
on different criteria, such as farm area, or type of land ownership). The use of the lists of
population is necessary when the sampling errors with the area frame are too large. This is the
case, for example, when one individual accounts for a large percentage of the total population,
or when the surveyed product is specialized, such as flowers, mangos, etc. The list of
population will be kept as short as possible to be manageable. The frame will be designed so
that it could also be used for other surveys. In fact, an important project objective is to unify
the methodologies used in all agricultural surveys.
1.41   The main results expected from the sub-component are: (i) an updated and complete
area sampling frame to be used for all agricultural surveys; (ii) data on agricultural production,
practices and farm structure, desegregated at canton level; (iii) documentation on surveying
methodology and execution; (iv) publication and dissemination of the results; (v) wide
availability of data series in electronic formats; (vi) seminars for policy analysts and other data
users to explain how to use the data sets; and, (vii) seminars for the general public and
farmers.
1.42   The project will provide technical assistance to INEC in the following areas: (i)
updating the sampling frame and designing and selecting the sample; (ii) design the
questionnaire and tabulation formats; (iii) pilot test of questionnaires, field procedures and data
entry process; (iv) data collection; and, (v) dissemination of results through publication of
reports as well as through electronic media. The technical assistance requirements in data
processing (C2) and for AFPS (D) are included under the Census Component because of the
interrelationships among the components.
1.43   The sub-component requirements include: (i) 42 person months of short-term technical
assistance in survey planning and management, mathematical statistics, survey statistics, and
systems analysis and data processing; (ii) 12 short-term training courses in survey design,
sampling, and survey statistics; (iii) incremental staff and salaries; (iv) 3 5 vehicles; (v) 45
micro computers; (vi) service contracts to procure temporary cartographers for updating maps
and area frame; (vii) service contracts to procure interviewers, enumerators, and transport to
the field (car rental); and, (viii) logistical support in the field and other operating costs.



12
SUB-COMPONENT:                  C2- Data Processing
IMPLEMENTING UNIT:              Computer Division (INEC)
BASE COST:                      US$0.920 million
1.44   Processing the information collected from the Agricultural Sample Census will require
substantial effort from INEC. Presently, INEC's processing capability is weak. This sub-
component will boost INEC's processing capacity, to the benefit of the entire institution, not
just for the project activities. The project will also support the efforts underway to decentralize
INEC, particularly in the data processing area.
1.45   The project will significantly improve the operations of INEC's data processing unit to
provide the following services: (i) data processing,; (ii) training and technical assistance for
computer users; (iii) systems development for survey processing; (iv) maintenance and repair;
(v) information technology monitoring; and, (vi) publications production. The main
characteristics of this sub-component are similar to those described for the support of MAG's
computer center. To avoid the high employee turnover due to the attractive salaries paid by the
private sector to computer technicians, young professionals fresh from universities and
technical schools will be hired.
1.46   The sub-component requirements include: (i) 30 computers and software; (ii)
equipment for the installation of a network; (iii) 6 short-term training courses; (iv) assistance
with operating costs,; and, (v) incremental salaries.
COMPONENT D: AGRICULTURAL FARM PRODUCTION SURVEY (AFPS)
(US$1.6 million, 7 percent of base costs)
Implementing Unit: INEC
1.47   This component will provide technical and financial support to incorporate the results
of the Agricultural Sample Census in the area frame of the Agricultural Farm Production
Survey (AFPS), which is carried out annually by MEC. The AFPS provides estimates of
production for a wide array of agncultural products, including livestock. INEC has been
implementing this survey since 1981. Approximately 70,000 UPAs are surveyed each year
between September and November. The results, which are available the following March,
estimate national production, yields and area for 33 crop and livestock products during the
previous year.
1.48   The Agricultural Farm Production Survey (AFPS) is particularly important for the
MAG and the agricultural sector, as the survey provides the only objective annual data on crop
production, area and yields. However, its usefulness is significantly limited because the results
only become available eight months after the major winter harvest. In recent years the MAG
has conducted a survey of Coastal agricultural production in the July-August period,
immediately following the harvest, to estimate the winter harvest of principal commodities
(rice, corn, soybeans, coffee, cacao, and banana), however this survey has suffered from major
difficulties due to the MAG's human resource constraints for survey work and supervision.
Therefore, under the project, NEC will conduct a small Coastal Production survey each July-
August during the project.



13
1.49 A recent evaluation of the AFPS survey has identified the following additional
shortcomings:
*  Incomplete sampling frame. The frame in use was created in 1981. Since its
creation, the agricultural frontier has expanded significantly around roads and
urban areas. Moreover, the sampling frame methodology is of limited use for
specialized products such as flowers, mangos, etc. Additionally there has been
inadequate sample rotation.
*  Excessively prolonged process. The 8-9 weeks presently used for data collection,
plus the 10-11 weeks for data processing, are excessive.
*  Insufficient use of sampling frame. The construction and maintenance of the frame
represents a significant investment, yet it is used for but one survey per year and
for only one class of data, agricultural production data.
1.50  The project will address these limitations by providing technical assistance and
financial support to obtain:
*  An improved sampling frame that will incorporate new areas and specialized crops,
using the updated area sampling frame that will be created in the Agricultural
Sample Census component.
*  More timely data. The time elapsed for fieldwork and processing will be reduced
through improved survey design and stratification and through the improvement of
data processing systems (described in sub-component C2).
*  Improved utilization of the sampling frame. In addition to improvements in the
AFPS, the AFPS unit in INEC will design and execute an annual survey of Coastal
production following the winter harvest, based upon a sub-sample of the AFPS
sample and will design and execute every two years a survey to determine farm
expenditures and costs of production.
1.51   The sub-component requirements include: (i) 8 person months of short-term technical
assistance in mathematical statistics, sampling, and area frame construction (included under the
Census component); (ii) service contracts to construct the frame, including satellite imagery,
aerial photography, and data collection; and, (iii) 4 short courses in statistical sampling and
survey design.



14
COMPONENT E: PROJECT MANAGEMENT
(US$3.8 million, 16 percent of base costs)
Implementing Units:    Technical Secretariat and INEC Implementation Unit
1.52 The purpose of this component is to establish the management structures responsible
for the direction, coordination, planiing, financial administration, and monitoring and
evaluation of the project (see next chapter on Project Management). A Technical Secretariat,
headed by a Director, International Technical Advisor and a small managerial and financial
staff will be responsible for overall project management and guidance, including direct
management and administration of the activities in the MAG. A small Implementation Unit in
INEC will administer implementation of the INEC components, under the direction of the
Director of Economic Studies/Director of Census. In addition, this component will develop
managerial slills within the government essential for the implementation of any kind of activity;
and further develop the inter-institutional collaboration between MAG and INEC.
1.53   The component requirements include: (i) 48 person months of a Project Director,
managerial, administrative and financial staff of the Technical Secretariat and the INEC
Implementation Unit; (ii) 48 person months of an Intemational Technical Advisor in
agricultural economics, statistics and project management assigned to the Technical
Secretariat; (iii) 4 vehicles; (iv) funds for monitoring, evaluation, and audits; and, (v) support
for operating costs. The Technical Secretariat will be funded entirely by Loan funds.



15
2. PROJECT COST, ADMINISTRATION AND BENEFITS
COST AND FINANCING
Cost
2.1      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$25.3 million equivalent, of which about
31 percent represents foreign exchange costs. Duties and taxes amount to US$765,000. The
breakdown of costs by component is shown in Table 2. Physical and price contingencies (on
the basis of inflation showed in Table 3 below) are estimated to be US$2.1 million. Project
costs are estimated at May 1997 prices and include a Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
advance of US$750,000, which has been signed. Detailed costs tables are presented in
Attachment 6.
Table 2 - Project Costs Summary by Components
(US$)
%     % Total.
Foreign   Base
Local       Foreign       Total    Exchange Costs
Agricultural Policy Process
Sectoral Policy                                            1,525,200    1,188,200    2,713,400       44       12
Sectoral Public Investments                                  231,440     299,360       530,800       56        2
Subtotal Agricultural Policy Process                         1,756,640    1,487,560     3,244,200      46       14
Agr. lnf. & Dissemination Service
Agricultural Information Service                             559,600      98,400       658,000        15       3
Market Price & News                                         340,200      240,000       580,200       41        2
Agroclimatic Evaluation                                      562,000      808,800     1,370,800      59        6
Computer Center                                              212,720     167,680       380,400       44        2
Subtotal Agr. Inf. & Dissemination Service                   1,674,520    1,314,880     2,989,400      44       13
Agricultural Sample Census (ASC)
Agricultural Sample Census (ASC)                           7.546,980    3,117,920    10,664,900      29       46
ASC Data Processing                                          519,360     400,840       920,200       44        4
Subtotal Agricultural Sample Census (ASC)                    8,066,340    3,518,760    11,585,100       30      50
National System of Agricultural Statistics (SEAN)
Agric. Farm Production Survey (AFPS)                       1,277,380     319,220      1,596,600      20        7
Subtotal National System of Agricultural Statistics (SEAN)   1,277,380      319,220     1,596,600      20        7
Project Administration
Technical Secretariat                                      2,040,800    1,008,000     3,048,800      33       13
INEC PIU                                                     696,000            -      696,000         -       3
MAG PIU                                                       84,000            .       84,000         -        -
Subtotal Project Administration                              2,820,800    1,008,000     3,828,800      26       16
Total BASELINE COSTS                                         15,595,680    7,648,420    23,244,100      33      100
Physical Contingencies                                        56,580      84,870       141,450       60        1
Price Contingencies                                        1,739,448     209,904      1,949,352      11        8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          17,391,708    7,943,194    25,334,902      31      109
Table 3 - Annual Estimated Inflation Rate (%)
1998                1999               2000               2001
Local                                         27.3                24.3                23.1               22.1
Foreign                                        2.5                 2.8                 2.6                2.5
Exchange rate US$1 = Sucre                   5,372                6,436              7,688              9,122



*                           ~~~~~~~~~16
Fiacing
2.2    A Bank loan of USS20.0 million is proposed to finm    79 percent of project costs (see
Table 4). The proposed LiBOR based USS single-currency loan will be provided to the
Government for a term of 20 years, including 5 years of gace. Contribution by the
Govment will amount to USS5.3 million or 21 pecent of project costs.
Table 4 - Financing Plan
(USS '000)
The Government    The World Bulk          Total
Amount    %       Amount       %      Anmont 
1. Foreign                675    85         7,267   91.5       7.943   31.4
II. Local (E-xd. Taxes)  3.888   23.4      12,737   76.6       16.6Z6   65.6
111. Taxes                765  100.0            -      -         765    3o
otml Project              5,329   21.0      20.005   79.0       25,334  100.0
FMnancial Implications for the Government
2.3   Recurrent Costs. During implementation the Government will contribute US$5.3
million of which US$18 million are salaries of permanent state employees peforming project
related activities. US$0.6 million will be covered through recuperatio of income and sales
taxes. At completimo, the project is expected to geneate incremental recufrent costs totling
approximately US$75,000 for INEC and US$50,000 for MAG per year.



17
Procurement
2.4   The Bank loan will finamc procurement of consulting services, vehidcs and
equpment, trazing, servce conacts, civil works, and incremental recurt costs. The
procuremen methods for dierent prcument accoumts are summized in Table 5 and
discussed below.
Table 5 - Procurement Methods
(Amounts in parenthesis are Bank financed)
(USS '000)
ICB      NCB    Other       NBF        Total
Chxil Work                                       23                  23
(20)                (20)
Eaulumean                                      700                  700
(600)               (600)
Vehilesz                   1,670                 87                1,757
(1,513)              (87)               (1,800)
Service Contracts                    4,878    3,533                8,411
(4,000)  (3,500)              (7,500)
Consulnts=
Technical Assistance                        5,197                5,197
(4,800)              (4,800)
Training                                     907                  907
(500)               (500)
Mlise nnous
Salaries                                              2,015      2,015
Incr. Recurrent Costs                       4,212                4,212
(2,900)             (2.900)
PPF                                          850                  850
(850)               (850)
Unallocated                                  1,263                1.283
(1,230)             (1,230)
Total            1,670    4,878   16,772      2,015     25,335
(1,513)   (4,000)  (14,487)            (20,000)
2.5    All procureme   xcept salaries and incremental rcurrmnt costs, will follow
proceduressatisfacoiy to tho Bank MAG and INEC, both public institutions, will implemet
and be held rep ble for dteir respective procurements.  Erienced consultants wil be
hired under the project t support the instti  in the implementatim of tee assiments.
2.6    Consulig Services (US$6.1 million). Consulting services will be procured to provide
tedhmical assstance and kaiins tD MAO and INEC. Training consists of workshops, stud
tours, and (degree) courses, induding th cost of trainers' fees and trainees' scholarships and
per diems, trainng facilites rentals, and matenals required for traimng acvites. The
institios will follow Bank's gdelines to recruit private consulting firms, oher institutions,
mdividual consultants and specialists. Consultng services would be procured in accorde



18
with the 1997 Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Moreover, QCBS would be used
in all cases except where individual consultants would provide the type of services indicated in
Section 5.1 of the above Guidelines, including work on surveys and post-survey work. During
negotiations, it was agreed that MAG and INEC will use standard Letters of Invitation and
Contracts for simple assignments and the Bank's standard form of Contract for complex time-
based assignments.
2.7   Service Contracts (US$8.4 million). Service contracts will be used to procure
temporary workers for implementing the surveys. These services will be procured through
NCB when a firm or an organization can supply them. For instance, the filling of
questionnaires for a certain area could be contracted to a private firm or NGO that will train
and supervise temporary interviewers. In other cases, INEC and MAG will directly contract,
train and supervise the temporary interviewers. The services of survey work and post-survey
work in Components C and D would be procured in accordance with the 1996 Bank
Guidelines for Procurement of Goods and Works.
2.8   Equipment (US$0.7 mnillion). Procurement procedures would be applied according to
the following thresholds: (i) contracts costing less than US$50,000 (aggregate US$500,000):
local shopping through direct invitation of at least three suppliers; and (i) contracts costing
above US$50,000 (aggregate US$3,500,000): national competitive bidding (NCB). NCB
procedures would use the Bank's standard bidding documents, modified as necessary to meet
project requirements.
2.9   Vehicles (US$1.7 million). ICB will be normally used for the procurement of this
category. In most cases, procurement will be grouped in packages costing above US$250,000.
Only during the start up phase will the project be allowed to purchase through national
shopping of a maximum of 5 vehicles for a total value of US$114,000 or less.
2.10 Civil Works (US$23,000). Only small works (all estimated to be below US$30,000
per contract) are expected to be financed under lump sum contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations from at least three qualified domestic contractors.
2.11   Reviewing Procedures. Procedures, documents, procurement evaluation, and award of
contracts are subject to prior review by the Bank according to the following thresholds: (i) all
procurement through ICB; (ii) NCB for contracts costing above US$50,000; (iii) procurement
of consulting firms for contracts costing above US$100,000 (above US$200,000 would also
require an additional review of Evaluation Report); and, (iv) procurement of individual
consultants for contracts costing above US$25,000. Total prior review by the Bank will cover
at least 80 percent of procurement. The terms of reference for the auditing services will
require the auditors to certify that procurements have been made using bid documents agreed
upon with the Bank, and that the documents submitted to the Bank for prior review are
representative. Moreover, the Bank will review local procurements and tendering procedures
on the basis of an ex post sample. If it is found that the procedures agreed upon have not been
followed, the Bank will not finance the purchase in question and will cancel the amount from
the loan.



19
Table 6: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review (US$)
Expenditure          Contract Value     Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)          Method            Prior Review
1. Works                    30,000 and less    Three quotations     First two contracts
a/
2. Goods and Equipment        Vehicles b/           ICB                           All
50,000 and less   National Shopping    First two contracts
over 50,000          NCB                           All
3. Consulting Services                        Selection according
to '97 Guidelines
- Firms/NGOs/Universities    100,000 and less                              TORs only
100,001 to                                         All
200,000
over 200,000                        Additional Review of
Evaluation Report
- Individual                 25,000 and less                               TORs only
over 25,000                                         All
a/ No works above USS30,000 is expected to be financed under the loan.
hI- During the starting phase national shopping for a max of 5 vehicles for a total value of US$I 14,000 will be allowed.
Disbursement
2.12   The loan of US$20.0 million is expected to be disbursed over a period of four years,
beginning the first quarter of CY 1998 through the end of the first quarter of CY2002. The
project completion data will be March 31, 2002 and the closing date will be September 30,
2002. The disbursement profile presented below (and in attachment 7) is consistent with the
Bank's standard disbursement profile for technical assistance projects.
TABLE 7. ESTIMATED IBRD DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ MILLION)
Calendar Year         1998       1999        2000          2001      2002
Disbursements         2.7        4.1          3.4          6.4        3.4
Cumulative          2.7        6.8          10.2         16.6       20.0



20
2.13   The loan will cover 100 percent-- except duties and taxes-of the following costs:
technical assistance, vehicles and equipment, training, and service contracts. The loan will
contribute to finance incremental recurrent costs such as incremental salaies and incremental
operation and maintenance costs which would progressively decrease during project
implementation.
Table 8 - Summary of Disbursements Schedule
Category            Amount Allocated                M1RD Financed
(US$'000)                         (%)
Foreign             Local
I Cons. Services & Training      5,300                 100                  85
2 Vehicles                       1,570                 100                   85
3 Equipment                      630                   100                   85
4 Service Contracts              7,500                 100                   85
5 Civil Works                     20                   90                    90
6 Increm. Recurrent Cost         2,900            80, 60, 60, 20*       80, 60,60, 20*
7 Refumding of PPF                850
8 Unallocated                    1,230
TOTAL                20,000
* Percentage declining during the four years of implementation
2.14   Special Account. A Special Account (SA) in US dollars will be opened at a qualified
commercial bank. The SA will have one sub-account, for INEC. The total initial deposit will
be US$1.5 million, corresponding to about four months of average disbursement. The
Technical Secretariat (as part of MAG) will prepare and submit requests for withdrawals on
account of eligible expenditures for the Borrower. The TS Director will be responsible for
preparing replenishment applications.
2.15   Statement of Expenditure. Withdrawal applications will normally be supported by full
documentation. However, all expenditures for a contract value below the prior review, will be
made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOE). The related supporting documents will
be maintained by the TS and will be available for Bank staff and auditors review. All other
expenditures would require full documentation.
2.16   Retroactive Financing. Reimbursement of up to US$1.5 million-less than eight
percent of loan amount-will be permitted for eligible expenditures and that follow Bank
procedures for procurement, processing and clearance. The period to be covered under
retroactive financing starts on September 1, 1997. If the Loan Agreement is signed after
September 1, 1998, the initial date for eligibility of expenditures for retroactive financing will
be modified so that the period covered by retroactive financing will be no more than 12 months
before date of loan signing. Retroactive financing is recommended to ensure the technical
assistance necessary for those activities already undertaken by the implementing agencies.



21
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Project Management
2.17   The Project will be implemented by two public sector institutions, the Policy and
Sector Investment Under-Secretariat of the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Statistics
and Census Institute. While MAG is responsible for agricultural policy, INEC is in charge of
the national statistics system (Ley de Estadistica No. 323, Mayo 7, 1976). In Attachment 2
there is a comprehensive description of the two implementing institutions.
2.18   To ensure collaboration between the two institutions, the project management structure
(see Figure 1) will be composed of the following: a Technical Secretariat (TS), a Consultative
Council, and a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in INEC. The Technical Secretariat, located
in the MAG, will also manage the implementation of the MAG components. A detailed
agreement between the Technical Secretariat and INEC describing project management
functions and responsibilities under the PPF has been signed. The agreement defines (i)
functions, responsibilities, and organization of the INEC/PIU; (ii) procurement responsibilities
for consultants, goods, and services; (iii) responsibilities for monitoring; (iv) accounting and
disbursement responsibilities; and, (v) auditing arrangements. The signing of a similar
agreement between the TS and the INEC describing project management functions and
responsibilities under the Loan Agreement would be a condition of effectiveness of
Components C and D.
2.19   The Consultative Council will be composed of the Minister of Agriculture, the
Director General of INEC, a representative from the Ministry of Finance, and representatives
from the private agricultural sector. The Council must approve any changes in the Directorship
of the Technical Secretariat that may be requested by Minister of Agriculture, as well as review
project annual plans and strategies.
2.20   The Technical Secretariat will be responsible for overall project management,
including: (i) establishment of planning, monitoring, evaluation, and auditing activities; (ii)
establishment of project strategies and implementation guidelines; (iii) facilitating coordination
between project institutions; (iv) contracting extemal technical assistance and offshore
procurement of goods in accordance with Bank guidelines; (v) establishment of administrative
and financial systems and procedures; (vi) management and administration of the MAG
components; (vii) management and technical support to the institutions; (viii) documentation
and reporting to the Consultative Council and to the World Bank regarding project status; and
(ix) project accounting, disbursements, and reporting to the World Bank. The Technical
Secretariat has been established and the TS director has taken office.
2.21   The INEC Project Implementation Unit (INEC/PIU) will be responsible for the
implementation of Components C and D of the project, including: (i) administration and
accounting of local expenditures and local procurement; (ii) planning, monitoring, and
supervising the implementation of Components C and D; (iii) reporting technical and financial
documentation to INEC management and to the Technical Secretariat; (iv) local procurement
of consultants, goods, and services in accordance with Bank guidelines and TS instructions;
and (v) internal auditing. Establishment of the INEC/PIU is a condition of effectiveness.



22
2.22   The project components are tailored to the existing institutional structure (see Figure
1). By doing so, responsibilities for implementation of individual components are clearly
demarcated among the existing institutional units.
Figure 1. Project Management Structure
Conaultative Council 
M.n-st=v of                T e  hm. _Techr,ical.           Nat.ional Statistl Cs
[ t.wri^ - -e JSecr-eta=iat                                & Census Tns-tituze
Yanagemer.t &
Financial
:NEC/SICA
________________ ~ ~ ~      zncleme n   a
_ o I               .            =ion Ur,_.
I~ ~~ _.~----~
I tc nor, 4-. c
_______________~ ~ ~ ~              Sz5Hies_ .
_|    icu -:Ural  L                          |g Ce-.s s & .g
_   _cesI&      J                            Sa  tistcs
A :g rocl -L.....at t C                          Dat a ?rocess-ing
Ev-al u_tion._
Cornnuter 
C Cene          I



23
Project Implementation
2.23  Implementation Plan. An implementation plan and schedule have been jointly prepared
during appraisal (see Attachment 8 and Attachment 9), and was agreed upon during
negotiations. During negotiations it was also agreed that TS and INEC-PIU will annually
present a detailed implementation schedule for the following year for Bank review. The
detailed implementation schedule of the first year (with particular care on ASC preparation),
has already been review during appraisal.
2.24   Operations Manual. The TS will prepare a detailed project Operations Manual. This
manual will contain: (i) internal procedures for procurement of civil works, goods, services,
and for recruitment of consultants; (ii) terms of reference for the consultants, sample
consulting contracts, and samnple bidding documents; (iii) disbursement procedures. The Bank
will review the manual. A draft Operations Manual was prepared before negotiations and the
adoption of the agreed manual will be a condition of project effectiveness.
2.25 Agricultural Sample Census. The ambitious plan to implement this activity in 1998
requires a special implementation effort from INEC. The PPF is necessary to further proceed
in the preparation of the ASC and to have access to the required technical assistance.
Therefore, the preparation and submission to the Bank of the terms of reference estimated
budget, and draft contract for contracting Technical Assistance is a condition of effectiveness.
Accounting and Auditing
2.26   The Technical Secretariat and INEC/PIU will establish and maintain separate project
accounts to record all project transactions from the commencement of project execution. Each
institution will be responsible for establishing the accounts. The TS will consolidate all project
accounts. Such accounts shall be maintained in accordance with internationally and locally
recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank. The accounting
system will be divided by sub-component, expenditure category, disbursement account,
implementing institution, and will consolidate these accounts to prepare financial reports. The
supporting documentation will be kept in the INEC/PIU and TS and will be available at any
time for review by the Government, Bank Missions, and/or independent auditors.
2.27 The TS will ensure that the INEC/PIU uses standard operating, administrative and
accounting procedures (set out in the Operations Manual) on: accounting, accounting plan,
budgeting, administrative and financial reports. The TS will provide-within three months
after the close of the fiscal year-annual financial statements to reflect the financial
performance of the project. An independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank will be
competitively selected by the TS and hired to provide an opinion on such statements. The
auditor's report will be provided within four months of the close of the fiscal year and will
include a statement on the adequacy of the accounting system and intemal controls, the
reliability of financial statements and SOEs as a basis for loan disbursements. The auditing and
accounting arrangements was agreed upon during negotiations.



24
Monitoring and Supervision
2.28  Project implementation will be monitored by the TS. The Government and the Bank
will monitor project progress during joint supervision missions. A Mid-Term Review and an
Implementation Completion Review will be held at appropriate times during the life of the
project. Project monitoring and supervision arrangements was agreed upon during
negotiations.
2.29  Monitoring. The TS will provide semester reports to the Minister of Agriculture, the
Director of INEC, and the Bank. The reports will contain information on progress, collection,
processing, analysis, and distribution of information and an evaluation of the effects on
decision-makers. The semester reports will be furnished to the Bank no later than two months
after the completion of each semester. The key monitoring indicators are detailed in
Attachment 8 and described in the Operations Manual.
2.30 Regular Supervision. Twice a year, the Bank and the Government will organize joint
supervision missions. Before each mission, the Government and the Bank will agree on the
major substantive issues to be dealt with. These missions will always include an evaluation of
project progress based on the monitoring indicators, compliance with legal covenants, and
procurement and financial management supervision. At the end of each mission, the
Government and the Bank will sign an Aide Memoir that will contain the major agreements
reached during the mission.
2.31  Mid-Term Review (MTR). Two years after the effectiveness date the Government and
the Bank will carry out a Mid-Term Review. Three months before this review the Government
and the Bank will agree upon the detailed terms of reference and staffing of the MTR team. In
particular, the MTR will evaluate: (i) the quality of surveys carried-out; (ii) use of data and
information by the private sector; (iii) institutional strengthening and financing by the
Government of MAG and INEC operating costs; and, (iv) procurement, disbursement and
financial aspects. The Mid-Term Review arrangements was agreed upon during negotiations.
2.32  Implementation Completion Report (ICR). Within six months after project completion,
the Government and the Bank will carry out a joint project completion review and produce an
Implementation Report. A team composed of project staff, Bank-representatives and
independent specialists will carry out this review.



25
PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Project Benefits
2.33   Measurable benefits/outputs would be in the form of improvements in rural data
consistency, validity, timeliness, and availability. This would encompass:
* Increase in data collection activities. The project will finance 11 data collection
activities for a total of 626 thousand questionnaires, including one Agricultural
Sample Census (ASC), four Planting Intention Surveys (PIS), three annual
Agricultural Farm Production Surveys (AFPS), one Farm Expenditure Survey
(FES), and three Ad Hoc Surveys.
*  Reduced elapsed time for processing and dissemination. For example, the 1974
Agricultural Census Results were first available three years after the data was
collected. For the Agricultural Sample Census, data processing and publication is
expected to take only eight months. For the AFPS, the time needed for processing
data will fall from 11 -.13 weeks to 8 weeks (see Attachment 8),
-  Increased quality, number, circulation of statistical abstracts, descriptive and
analytic reports, bulletins, and studies produced. Utilization of local languages,
user-friendly publications and data.
-  Implementation of a series of seminars and media broadcasts. The project will
support 8 national seminars to present the key findings of the surveys and 18
regional seminars to present the results of the sample census.
Table 9. Number of Interviews
Surve               1998     1999     2000       2001     TOTAL
Planting Int. & Winter Harvest  18       18       18         18        76
Farm Expenditures                                 18                   36
Ad Hoc                                   18       18        18         54
Annual Prod. Survey            70                 70        70        210
Census                                  250                           250
TOTAL                          106      286       124       106        626
2.34   The benefits would come not only from the activities financed under the project, such
as the Agricultural Sample Census (ASC), but also from improvements in the quality of other
small-sample surveys, such as the LSMS, whose sampling frames are based on the ASC. (In
the recent past, the results from such small-sample surveys were questionable since the basic
sampling frame was based on dated information, and, consequently, the samples were
unrepresentative.)
2.35   The improvement in rural data consistency, validity, timeliness, and availability is
expected to cause a rnore sound decision-making process in both the public and private sector.
The project will improve the efficiency of both MAG and INEC. Both institutions will receive



26
technical assistance and training in data collection, processing, analysis and dissemination.
Through improved access to quality information, better public policies can be designed leading
to improved rural productivity and hence to higher overall growth. Public sector decision
making and the formulation of sector policies would benefit from: (i) a clear description and
understanding of a problem situation; (ii) projections of alternative scenarios; and (iii) estimates
of responses of consumers and producers to interventions and changes in external parameters.
Furthermore, improved infornation would lead to better targeting of government's programs
thereby helping the rural poor and the indigenous people. Finally, in the event of a shift in the
terms of trade against agriculture, it will be possible to design and implement policies that can
impact positively on those most affected thereby reducing political pressure to introduce
protection (measured by nominal protection rates for major commodities) and hence undermine
reform efforts.
2.36   The provision of quality mformation and analysis would improve private sector
decision making as well. This is all the more important today as Ecuador moves away from the
certainty that used to accompany fixed prices established by the Government to prices that
reflect day-to-day market conditions. Farmers, traders, and agro-businesses should benefit
from the project through: (i) reduction in transactions costs by accessing to up-to-date and
relevant information on production, stocks, prices, and weather; and (ii) reduction in risk by
having the data for reliable cost and price projections. Furthermore, market efficiency would
be improved from (i) greater price stability (for example, from stock adjustments made in
response to future expectations); and (ii) reduction in asymmetrical information between rich,
well-informed traders and their poorer counterparts (who cannot invest in the search for data).
For example, in the past, rice traders operated with prices set by the state. Now, post-
liberalization of the sector, traders need to know both the domestic and international price and
supply situation, the exchange rate, tariffs, and the interest rate. If many people have this
information better sectoral investment and trading decisions will be made benefiting both
producers and consumers.
2.37   Quantitative economic analysis for the project is attempted only for the calculation of
benefits from higher sectoral growth, and not of benefits from improved targeting of
Government programs which would lead to poverty reduction. Given the difficulties in
measuring the benefits of policy reforms in advance, it is necessary to examnine the break-even
point to determine the minimum benefits required to justify expenditures under the project and
examine the probability that project activities would attain that level of benefits. In 1995, value
added in the Ecuadoran agricultural sector was around US$2.0 billion. Assumng a discount
rate of 10 percent, and a 1 0-year benefit horizon, an increase of just 0.25 percent in value
added in the sector would justify the project. It is expected that the contribution from measures
included in the sectoral reform would be much larger particularly because benefits would
accrue to non-agricultural activities as well.



27
2.38   Beneficiaries. Project beneficiaries could be separated in two groups: the first group
encompasses those who will participate in project implementation, such as staff of MAG and
INEC, as well as the staff of contracted companies, who will benefit from the institutional
development, technical assistance, and training provided by the project. The second group
encompasses those decision-makers that will use project outputs such as data, information,
analysis, etc. They could be further divided in the following five sub-groups: (i) economic
analysts within the central Government, sector ministries, and public agencies, such as
decision-makers in the Ministry of Agriculture, the Fund for Social Emergency Investments
(FISE), or the Banco de Fomento; (ii) managers of projects and public enterprises, such as
managers of rural development projects, or the National Organization for Agricultural
Marketing (ENAC); (iii) researchers and analyst in universities and research institutions; (iv)
private sector institutions, private enterprises, and farmers, such as private banks, or producer
associations; and, (v) external multilateral and bilateral institutions, such as external donors,
development institutions, etc.
Project Risks
2.39   Ecuador's increasing fiscal deficit could reduce financial support for project activities
leading to a reduction of capabilities in both MAG and INEC. Even if funding and capabilities
remain, the political environment may derail the reforms. The risk of reduced public funding is
addressed by a modular project design that will retain considerable flexibility in project
implementation, whereas, the risk of diminished political support is addressed with specific
design measures to improve information service to high-level public officials and private sector
interests. Moreover, it should be noted that the proposed project is largely built on a base of
activities that have been and are continuing to be carried out. This is particularly true in MAG,
where the project will expand, improve, and strengthen activities already being carried out by
the SSPI. In INEC, both the Agricultural Sample Census and the Rural Income and
Expenditure Survey will be new activities, although the institution has a long and effective
professional history of conducting surveys.
Environmental Category
2.40   The project's environmental category is B. The project will contribute to providing
information to environmental and social policy makers, promoting a sound policy process.
Among social policies, the Government of Ecuador is recently paying increasing attention to
indigenous people issues, and the Census should contribute significant information on issues
relevant to the rural indigenous people. To ensure this, the project will finance technical
assistance of experts in this field.



28
3. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.1   The following agreements have been reached during appraisal, and post-appraisal:
* Costs and financing of the project (para 2.1 and 2.2),
* Structure of project management ( para 2.17),
* Signing of agreement between MAG and INEC on project management functions
and responsibilities under PPF (para 2.18),
* Establishment of the Technical Secretariat (para 2.20)
* Project implementation plan and schedule (para 2.23, Attachment 8, and
Attachment 9),
* Detailed project schedule for the first year ( para 2.23),
* Detailed schedule of the Agricultural Sample Census preparation (para 2.23),
*  Project benefits and beneficiaries (para 2.33 and 2.38), and
* List of key monitoring indicators (Attachment 8).
3.2   The following condition for negotiations was fulfilled:
* Preparation of a draft Operations Manual (para 2.24).
3.3   The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
*  MAG and INEC will use standard Letters of Invitation and Contracts for simple
assignments and the Bank's standard form of Contract for complex time-based
assignments (para 2.6),
* Auditing and accounting arrangements (para 2.27)
- Project monitoring and supervision arrangements (para 2.28), and
-  MIid-Term Review arrangements (para 2.31).
3.4   The following will be conditions of effectiveness:
* Signing of agreement between MAG and INEC on project management functions
and responsibilities under Loan Agreement (para 2.18),
* Establishment of INEC-PLIJ (para 2.21), and
* Conclusion and adoption of the Operations Manual by TS and INEC-PIU (para
2.24).



29
ATTACHIENT I
ECUIADOR
AGRICULTURAL CENSUS AND INFORMATION SYSTEM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Data Collection Activities
1.    A series of data collection activities are contemplated under the present project.
Each of these activities, while complementing the others in a variety of ways, is designed
for a distinct purpose and would collect different data. The purpose of this annex is to
clarify the differences as well as demonstrate the connections that exist among the
activities.
2.    Overview of Usual National Data Collection Structure. Most countries carry
out two main census activities: a Population Census and an Agricultural Census. The
purpose of any census, in general termns, is to measure specific characteristics of the total
population. In a Population Census, the population is all persons living in the country,
therefore the individual is the unit of observation. In an Agricultural Census, the
population is all farms or Agricultural Production Units (UPAs), and the farm or UTPA is
the unit of observation
3n.    Due to the extremely expensive and logistically complex nature of a census, such
exercises are usually carried out once a decade and the types of data collected are very
limited. Surveys are carried out in the interim period to satisfy the need for more frequent
and/or more in-depth data. Samples or subsets of the population are created based on the
sample frames of the census. Researchers then interview only those units of observation in
the sample and extrapolate the findings to the national level or total population. While
surveys suffer from greater sampling error, the small size and the ability to increase
supervision and training help to lower non-sampling error. Also, it is possible to collect
more in-depth data or cover more categories in a survey.
Project Data Collection Activities
4.    There are six separate data collection activities that would be carried out under the
project (see Table 9):
(a)   Agricultural Sample Census (ASC);
(b)   Agricultural Farm Production Survey (AFPS);
(c)   Planting Intention Survey (PIS);
(d)   Farm Expenditure Survey (FES); and
(e)   Ad hoc Surveys (AS).



30
5.    In addition, a sixth survey--the LSMS--is included in Table 9. This survey is
financed under a different World Bank project (3425-EC) and, as of 1995, will also be
implemented by INEC. The main relationships and differences among these surveys are
described below.
6.    Sample Unit: Given that the sample frames created for the Population Census
(carried out in 1991) and the Agricultural Sample Census (ASC, to be carried as part of
the proposed project) are different, the frame to be used for the individual surveys is a
function of the unit of observation and the type of data required. For all surveys where the
unit of observation is the UJPA, the ASC sample frame would be used. The data collection
activities under this project that would be included here are: the Agricultural Farm
Production Survey (AFPS), the Planting Intention Survey (PIS) and the Farm Expenditure
Survey (FES).
7.    Purpose and Types of Data Collected. The ASC would collect data on overall
agricultural land use and production. The geographic coverage of the ASC would allow
data to be disaggregated to the canton level (196 cantons in Ecuador). To provide data on
the agricultural production of each year, the AFPS would be carried out. This survey
would use a smaller sample of UPAs (see Table 9) and would provide data at the
provincial level (20 provinces in Ecuador).
8.    The PIS collects similar data to that in the AFPS with two important distinctions.
First, the survey is designed to provide data on which to make projections of agricultural
production. This is a key tool for agricultural planning and forms part of the MAG analysis
program. The other difference is that the PIS is geared solely to the large export crops of
the coastal region. Given the large size of the UPAs in this region and the predominance
of a few export crops it is possible, with a fairly small sample, to make reasonably accurate
projections of agricultural production in the region and, hence, potential exports.
9.    The FES, while also using the UPA as the unit of analysis, has very distinct aims.
Unlike the other surveys that address the characteristics of the agricultural sector and
overall production, the FES would gather data on how this production is achieved. The
data collected in this survey would provide information on prices, costs of different
technologies and the overall cost structures in the agricultural sector.
10.   The Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) is a different data collection
activity which has been carried out in 1994 and 1995 under another project (3425-EC).
The LSMS provides data on all facets of individual and household welfare and allows: (i)
the measurement of poverty; (ii) policy relevant data on the characteristics of the poor and
non-poor; and (iii) the analysis of the determinants of poverty and other social sector
outcomes. None of the other surveys would provide the amount of data on different
topics, nor the same social sector data and analysis capabilities.



Tablc 9 - Sumnnary of Data Collection Activities
ample  Ullit                              I                       IteltltioII ttl Otler Surveys
Activity           Covcrage                Purpose                                      Sanple Size              Frequency
(1)           National        )ctenninc agricultural land nse, Agricultural     *   10,000 sample         Evcry 10 years        *  Creates sample frame for all
Agricultuiril Sample                   aPnd type ofownciship,          Iloduction Unit        segments (230,000                              other agricultural surveys
Ccnstis (ASC)                          agriculitiral piodution          (UI'A)                UI'As)                Last doIe in 1974    *   lmprovc the AFPS sampic by
(Liiniitcd Agricltlural                (quantities anidI prcc), usC and                       all Ul'As gr"titer                         , updating frame and including
Ccnsus based on Arca                   av ilability of inputs, labor,                         than 100 licctares                              (lie Oricntal Rcgion
Framelc)                               crdit technical ssistan.c'   (17  000                                    ..s..
(2)           National       Nationail AgiLtiltli .kl        Agitculetilal     3,700 sample seginalis  Aiuiial                 *  Actual lroduction data
Agricultural Farm                      Prodtiction: livestock, dairy,   Production Unit                                                 ,*  National level'
Production Survey                      pennanent and annual crops       (UPA)             (apJi 70,000 UPAs)       Last done in 1994    *   Depends on ASC for sample
(AFPS)                                                                                                                                       frame
(Part of System of
National Agricultural
Statistics, S     .N)                                                                                       ............ ....... .
(3)           Coastal        AgriciltLural production        Agriculltiral      18,000 UPAs              Aininial (June)      .*  Only survey providing
Planting Inticntioll    Region, rural cstiinittes for main rural crops  lProductioll Units.   production cstiinates of
Survey (PIS)                           based on planting intentions    (UPAs)                                                                major export crops
.   AFPS cross-check
..   Depends on ASC for sample
.  I   .                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~fraine
..........................            . ..   .......... .......... .. ........ .............  ..... ..               .    ..................... . ....  .... ........ . ... . ............ ;,
Activity                Covcrag'c      P~urposc| Saiiinpl  Unit    I Saple..                     Size             I ......ic..cy         RelatjioI tO Other Suirveys
(4)           National       Costs of agricultumal           Agricultural       18 ,000 UlAs             lBiannual             *  Only source ofdetailed
Fin in Expenditure                                                     l' (     t * iol Un it 'i                  ,igricmlturiil cost infonnation
Sturvey (FES)         ..~(UI'A).*Dlepends oni ASC for frame
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .............              I . ..   .. ......I .....  ..................
(5)           National       Poverty Measurcinenta d         I louseholds      6,000                     Anmtal                *  Only national lcvel data
Living Standards                       identification of characiteristics               .                                                    designed to measure poverty
Mcasurireiicit Survey                 i of xoor: collecis datta oii                                                I amst dIone 111 1994  *  Only multi-topic survey that
(LSMS)2                                e expenditures, honsilng, hlcalth,                                                                    a allows anaxlysis or
educationt, cimploymeit,                                                                              deterninants of social sector
agricultural and non-                            .                                                    outcomes
agricultural hshiold businesses,                                                                  *  Uses Population Census as
labor and non-labor income,                      ,                                                    Sample Frame
______________ _ .migration, nutrition.
The Planting Intention Survey collcct data to forccast tlc agricultural production in tlhe coastal region. The AFPS iieasurcs the actual production in all the
country.
2  The Living Standards Mcasurencnt Survey (LSMS) is finanaced under another project (3425-EC).



32
ATTACHMENT 2
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CENSUS AND INFOREMATION SYSTEM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Implementing Institutions
1.    The project implementing institutions are the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock (MAG) and the National Statistics and Census Institute (INEC). INEC
concentrated on data collection, processing, and dissemination, and MAG concentrated on
the analysis and dissemination of data and policies. This annex describes the two
institutions and their relationships.
TE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AN) LIVESTOCK (MAG)
2.    MAG is responsible for sector policies and advice on macroeconomic and
multisectoral policies that affect the agricultural sector. It is also responsible for providing
objective information to the private sector and other public sector agencies fitted to meet
of their decision making requirements. The recent restructuring of MAG (see Figure 3
page 3 3)provides an institutional focus for the analysis of agricultural policies and
information. Other MAG offices and other public agencies also compile, process, and
analyze information that can make a positive contribution to the informnation system.
3 .    The recently-created Office of the Under-Secretary for Sector Policy and
Investment (SPIS) replaced the Office of the Under-Secretary for Marketing. SPIS is
composed of four directorates: (i) Policy Analysis, (ii) Internal and External Trade,
(iii) Agricultural Information, and (iv) Planning, Investments and Budgeting The
Agricultural Sector Program of the Inter-American Development Bank works closely with
SPIS Objective of this program is the agricultural sector adjustment and includes a
component of institutional support for MAG. However, this component does not cover
the information system The main functions and responsibility of SPIS's directorates are
described below.
4.    Directorate General Of Policy Analysis. This directorate is responsible for
monitoring and evaluating sector performance, identifying sector problems, conducting
economic analysis of policy problems, evaluating policy altematives for decisionmakers,
and informing the private sector about the situation and prospects for the main staple
crops. It publishes a monthly report on the "Situation and Outlook for Staple Crops",
which is widely distributed in the public and private sectors. It is distributed to MAG staff
for use in their analysis reports (policy memoranda), which deal with a wide variety of
policy problems ranging from the impact of the European Economic Community
restrictions on bananas, to the impact of rnilk imports on domestic prices and production.
The Directorate of Policy Analysis also compiles, organizes, and analyzes macroeconomic
and trade data, using secondary sources. The reports on the "Situation and Outlook for
Staple Crops" are more directly oriented to monitoring the dynamic variables (prices,
trade, production, etc.)



33
Figure 3 - MAG Organizational Chart
Ministry of Agriculture
(MAG)
(1,460+6,9231
Administration
[171]
Sector Policies &          Tehial&          
Invetormlicents &ATehnicrate &              Sierra & Amazonas      South & Galapagos          Regional
Under-Sectrentari       AndmeniSertariati     Regional Under-       Regional Under-       Under-Secretariat
U 7      td  [130]                       Secretariat [502]      Secretariat [2191    Northern Cost [144]
|Policy Analyss I           |Institutional           Special Programs               Autonomous
Dlirectorante               Development          (livestock, coffee, etc.)         Institutions
Directorate                [222]                       [6,923]
Internal &
External Trade  _                 Legal                                  INEFAN                     CRM
Directorate                  Directorate                              (Forestacion)   _       (Reconstr. of
[647]              Manavi) [921]
Agricultural                    Social
Infonnation             -  Commumcation                                  INIAP                 PREDESUR
Directorate                  Directorate                               (Reserch)     -        (South Region
[429]               Planning) [900]
Planning, nv.                   Human
and Budgeting            -    Resources                                 ENPROVIT                   CREA
Directorate                  Directorate                            (Vital Products           (East Region
.                                      g Market.) [350] |       |~~~~~~ Planning) [513]|
Administration
- m    Directorate                               ENADE                    ENDES
NaturalFiacl
Resources                 DFinancialte                              INCRAE                     INERI
DiectoraDirDirectorate                                              (Regional      -         (Irrigation)
Planning) [74]              [285]
|Smnall-Fanmer |         |Agiculture & |           
|Development           -   Livestock    |                               EN AC                    Banco de
Directorate                Directorate                           (Marketing) [47]             F
|INCCA (Small |           iReaserch & |
|Farmers'                   Extension                 ||INDA 
Training)                 Directorate                             (Land Titling)   -
[212]
Notes: in [paranthesisl the number of permanent staff
I Project supported units >
5.       Internal And External Trade Directorate. This directorate is responsible
internally for grain marketing policies related to the National Marketing Corporation, and
externally for the price range policy, tariffs, and problems related to entry into GATT,



34
NAFTA, and the Andean Free Trade Zone. In the near future, external trade problems
would dominate the work of this directorate, which also provides continuous monitoring
of international prices and market conditions through a computerized international
network.
6.    Agricultural Information Directorate. This directorate is divided in the
following four divisions:
(a)   Agricultural Statistics Division. This division conducts small surveys,
based on a sub-sample of the national agricultural frame managed by
INEC. It conducts two types of surveys: (i) the Agricultural Farm
Production Survey (AFPS), and the Planting Intention Survey. It also
conducts one or two targeted surveys a year, such as the survey to
determine livestock parameters. AFPS is highly important for decision
making. Other activities performed by this directorate include: estimates of
livestock slaughtered, estimates of balanced feed, and compilation of
secondary data from the Central Bank. The division has learned how to
design and conduct surveys, but still suffers from some shortcomings in
statistical methods, use of descriptive statistics, and sampling.
(b)   Market Prices and News Service. The main responsibility of this division
is the operation of an information system on wholesale market prices for
staple farm crops and dissemination of the results. It systematically
compiles, processes, and disseminates wholesale prices from the country's
20 largest markets, including border markets with Peru and Colombia.
This system alerts analysts to changes in prices on the main wholesale and
border markets. Price reports are produced daily, weekly, and monthly.
With the reorganization, this area would also be responsible for providing
price information on the farm level (or the first purchaser). The operation
is based on a chain of computerized telex machines, supplemented with fax
communications with the markets. Inadequate supervision and training for
personnel in the field has been causing problems in controlling the quality
of the data.
(c)   Agroclimatic Impact Evaluation Unit. Ecuador's farming area suffers
serious climatic risks, ranging from low precipitation in the sierra to flood
in the coastal region. The climate is an important factor in making
decisions on planting, crop development, yield, and production. This unit
monitors rainfall and other weather variables, through 50 stations, to enable
it to evaluate the possible impact of climate factors on planting, crop
maturity, and projected yield. This information is used by policy makers to
decide when a climate phenomena has to be considered a natural disaster.
These activities are carried out in cooperation with the National
Meteorology and Hydrology Institute (INAMHI).
(d)   Computer Center. The computer center is organized as a service center
for PC users in MAG. It processes surveys, carries out basic repairs and
maintenance, provides training in software applications and technical
assistance for users, and develops user-ready systems.



35
7.    The Directorate General Of Planning, Investment, and Budgeting. This
directorate is responsible for preparing the annual budget for the entire sector and fnr
monitoring and evaluating sector programs and projects. The current budgeting process is
apparently a mere exercise in adjusting the past budget to an inflation factor, within the
widespread budgetary constraints. Investment planning is not linked to budget priorities.
Monitoring is based on inputs, and solid evaluations have been scarce There is very little
real analysis of cost effectiveness, distribution, or the impact of public spending and
investments in the sector.
8.    One major problem that has become apparent in MAG is its lack of capacity to
monitor its main programs and investments. This can be put down to the absence of a
formal budgeting system that includes the establishment of objectives, priorities,
programming, and budget execution and monitoring. It is also necessary to institute
organized and structured planning of activities with the formal participation and support of
all areas in MAG. In this process MAG's budget should be framed in the context of the
objectives and goals of a program tailored to its institutional realities and limitations,
which should form part of a long-term strategy. Another crucial area where support is
needed in MAG is for more effective monitoring of agricultural programs and projects, to
determine whether the Ministry's different programs and investments are achieving the
expected impact Other countries have made similar efforts and their applicability to
MAG should be evaluated.
NATIONAL STATISTIC AND CENSUS LINSTITUTJE (INEC)
9.    The National Statistics and Census Institute (INEC) is the other main institution
that would participate in the compilation, processing, analysis, and dissemination of
agricultural information under the proposed project INEC has also been reorganized to
gear its structure to policies for modernization of the State and decentralize it
administratively to enable it to carry out its responsibilities in a more efficient and timely
manner



36
Table 10 - INEC Data Collection Activities
Sample
Activity                Topic                Unit       Coverage Frequency
Agricultural Farm    National agricultural     Agricultural    National    Annual
Production Survey    production-quantities &    Production
(AFPS)               prices- soil use, cattle and  Unit (UPA)
dairy production, use and
availability of inputs
Urban Consumer       Price Data                Good/services   12 cities:   Monthly
Price index, IPCU                              in consumer    (6 sierra,
basket          6 costa)
Construction Material, Price Data              Material,       National   Monthly
Equipment and                                  equipment,
Machinery. Price                               machinery
Index
National Sample      Wages. labor,             Establishment   National    Annual
Survey of Industrial   consumption, value added,
Production (ENPRIN) capital formation, assets,
I stock
Survey of Mining &    Inputs, outputs, costs,  Establishment   National    Annual
Manufacturing        labor
Survey of Domestic   Wages, labor,            Establishment   National    Annual
Commerce             consumption, value added,
capital formation, assets,
stock                                         __      _
Survey of            Wages, labor,             Establishment   National    Annual
Restaurants, Hotels   consumption, value added,
and Services         capital formation, assets,
stock
Employment &         Employment and wages    Establishment   National  Trimestral
Remuneration Index   for employees
Buildings Survey     Data on all building size,  All permits   National    Annual
(Construction        materials, use, value
Permits)
Transport Statistics    Registration of all    Various         National    Annual
transport, cargo, accidents                 ._
International        Cross border movement   Travelers         National    Annual
Migration Statistics   foreign & Ecuadorian
Vital Statistics     Birth and death data      All such events  National    Annual
(Births, Deaths)
Vital Statistics     Marriages, divorces,      All such events  National    Annual
(Marriages, divorces)  adoptions
Source. "INEC: Plan Operativo, 1995", Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censo, Quito, Ecuador,
December, 1994



37
| Hospital Statistics  Hospital use, hospital  Hospital       J National 1  Annual]
[los~ital Statistics   service statistics (beds,               l          l
etc )
Health Resources and  Health facilities and    Health           National    Annual
Activities            services                 facilities
Urban Under-, Un- &   Labor force              Households        Urban      2x year
Employment                                                   ._._._ _
Income and            Income and Expenditure   Housing Unit   16 cities  Occasional
Expenditure survey,
Urban ENIGHU          _________ ..                       _                  __
10    INEC's mandate is to direct the national statistics system (NSS), and to produce
and disseminate, with high quality standards, national statistical information that can be
used to gain an adequate understanding of the economic and social situation Its main
activities that are relevant for the agricultural sector stem from the studies and surxeys it
conducts They include periodic surveys of manufacturers, industries and the service
sector, the national population and housing census (1990), the monthly survey of the
consumer price index, the Agricultural Farm Production Survey (part of the National
Agricultural Statistics System) performed at the end of the year using a relatively large
area sample INEC is currently making a significant effort to provide data, information,
and analysis of the problem of poverty in the country, the distribution of public
investment, regional standards of living, and a survey to identify and locate the very poor.
11    INEC has made important headway, including a complex series of survey and
census operations that produce crucial information for the agricultural sector This
progress has been made through intensive work and complex national logistical systems
for data collection However, the strategy has led to very long elapsed time between data
collection, processing, tabulation, publication, and distribution. Moreover, the work has
been done despite the typical problems afflicting the public sector which include the need
for better quality, reliability, and timeliness, the lack of adequate experience and technical
know-how on the part of the agents responsible for collecting and processing data,
analysis methodologies, and commitment by individuals to the information for which they
are responsible, including such things as quality control, descriptive analysis,
understanding of user requirements, etc Improvement in these areas would require
further training and technical assistance  NTEC also suffers from traditional public-sector
problems with regard to shortages of resources and logistical support, and inadequate
salaries and incentives for technical personnel in the field and at the provincial and central
levels
12    In the past, period of one or two years in rNEC's processing of surveys were
traditional and even acceptable. With the revolution in data-processing technologies, user
expectations have become more demanding and less tolerant of delays in both the
processing and publication of results Although INEC has improved its elapsed time, it
has been very difficult for it to step up its already intensive processing activities The state
of the art in information processing has undergone revolutionary changes in the last few
years INEC's information technologies have rapidly become obsolete, as for example its
dependence on a UNISYS system which operates with COBOL



38
13.   INEC is organized in the following five directorates (see Figure page 38):
(i) Statistical Development And Planning, (ii) Economic Statistics, (iii) Socio-demographic
Statistics, (iv) Computer Systems, and (v) Statistics Distribution.
Figure 4 - INEC Organizational Chart
National Statistics
& Census Institute
(EN-EC)
Statistical   Economc          Socio-Computer               Stastcs
Developmern &   E              demogxaphic                                Directorate
I I  Statistics                    Systems      Distnbution
Flanni     I                  Statistics
14    Statistical Development And Planning Directorate This directorate regulates
the national statistics system and encourages the use of statistical-mathematical algorithms
to improve the quality and usefulness of statistical information It includes the National
Statistics System Planning and Coordination Department (annual programming and
reports), the Sample Design and Statistical Analysis Department (application of
algorithms), and the Research and Development Department (development of the system
of socioeconomic accounts).
15    Economic Statistics Directorate This directorate provides annual and multi-
annual economic statistics based on surveys, censuses, and administrative records, which it
uses to study the country's productive activities and their impact on the environment It
has the follov;ing departments. Current Statistics Department (urban consumer price
index, price index for construction materials, equipment and machinery), Natural Resource
and Agricultural Statistics Department (agricultural and production censuses and statistics,
inventory of strategic natural resources), and the Industrial Statistics Department
(processing and services sectors, informal sector)
16    Socio-demographic Statistics Directorate This directorate is responsible for
demographic and social aspects in Ecuador, and it obtains its data through censuses,
surveys, and administrative records It has three departments the Household Statistics
Department (household surveys), the Social Statistics Department (studies on the nature
of communit- assistance), and the Population Statistics Department (population, housing,
and habitat in general)
17    Computer Systems Directorate. It is responsible for the development, regulation,
and productive use of computerized information on the institutional level, under the
framework of computerized information policies. It includes the following departments:
Systems Development Department (creation and maintenance of computer systems),
Operations and Production Department (productive use of computerized information
through good service to the users of computer systems and equipment, completeness of
data and information files), and the Expansion and Maintenance Section (maintenance of
equipment and planned growth of computer equipment and communications)



39
18.   Statistics Distribution Directorate. This directorate is responsible for creating a
statistical culture in the country, formulating dissemination policies, and maintaining the
institutional image through communication of the results of the different investigations and
studies. It has a Promotions, Communications, and Protocol Department (applies
dissemination policies through magnetic, optical, and mechanical media, and programs
actions for the communication and promotion of national statistical activities), and a
Technical Services Department (provides institutions, national and international agencies,
and general users with information and data using magnetic, optical, and mechanical
means, either free of charge or at cost).
19.   Other agencies also play a role in generating and processing information of
relevance for sector policies. They must be taken into account (although not for financing
under this project). They include institutions reporting to MAG, other public sector
agencies (Central Bank, Ministry of Social Welfare, etc.), certain intemational projects,
and different private sector entities. Efforts would be made to include them all in the
process of disseminating agricultural information. As a minimum, the efforts by these
agencies to generate, process, and analyze agricultural information should be coordinated
to reduce the likelihood of redundancy and improve the compatibility and consistency of
their information.



40
ATTACHMENT 3
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CENSUS AND INFORMATION SYSTEM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Data User Requirements Study
1.    A Data User Requirements Study (DIURS) was undertaken in Ecuador during
February, 1993. Purpose of this study was to identify data needs of users, such as
decisionmakers, policy analysts, producers associations, etc., in both public and private
agricultural sector.
Methodology
2.    The study was conducted through a double phased unstructured interview to 74
data users from 19 public and private institutions. The results of the fist phase of
interviews was reviewed by the same interviewees to: (i) allow to double check their
responses and consider the questions more thoroughly; and (ii) review responses of other
data users.
3 .    One objective of the DURS was to train MAG and INEC personnel to continue
the interviewing process. These institutions are prepared to conduct additional interviews
as required. Future interviews should also contact again initial interviewees in order to
confirm data requirements which have been revealed in this study. The users' answers
have been counted treating each response equally. Further analysis should weigh
responses according to the importance of the data user.
The interviewed sample
4.    A total of 74 persons were interviewed. They were staff of the following 19
institutions: (i) Public Sector. Thirty-two high level staff of fifteen different institutions in
MAG, four persons in The Ministry of Social Welfare, two persons in the Instituto
Nacional de Empleo (INEM), three persons in CONADE, and four persons in the Banco
Nacional de Fomento. Three persons from INEC and the Statistics Division of MAG
reported for institutions that wish to generate data; (ii) Private Sector. Sixteen people
from the Camara de Agricultura de la Primera Zona, the Association of Livestock in the
Sierra and the Oriente, and Banco del Pacifico. Five staff of Fundaci6n IDEA reported
for private institutions that analyze data generated by themselves or by others;
(iii) Projects/Programs. Five staff from the Rural Development Project (PRONADER),
CEDEGE, and PROTECA. Two persons from the project of Rural Household Surveys
(USAID) reported for institutions that wish to generate data.



41
Results
5.    The result of the study shows that there is a multitude of data requirements in
Ecuador. The diversity is impressive given the variability of the agricultural activities that
are of concern: they range from rural poverty alleviation to environmental protection, from
investment selections to marketing decisions. The DUJRS pointed out that raw data is not
as helpful for the majority of the users, who require an analysis providing alternative
decisions and possible impacts of their choices.
6.    Twenty-one different items were identified as data requirements. Some contained
multiple elements. For example, "livestock requirement" contains: (i) type of livestock,
(ii) time between births; (iii) culling rates; (iv) death rates; (v) age at weaning,
(vi) weight at weaning; (vii) age sold; (viii) weight sold; (ix) diseases; and (x) vaccines.
Other items were simply identified. For example, "land tenure" was the first item identified
by the Sub-secretary of Technology/MAG to be of critical importance.
7.    The summary of interviews result is as follows (see Table 1):
(a)    Farm Production Expenses was identified most frequently. 68.4 % gave
high priority reflecting the need for cost of production analyses;
(b)   Rural Income was identified by 52.6 % as high priority. Rural income is
difficult to obtain from farmers who feel this is private information.
Therefore, data are obtained on related items, and an extensive analysis is
required;
(c)   Land Tenure was identified by 47.4 % as high priority.
(d)   Crop Yields/Production was identified by 42.1 % as high priority. Much of
this requirement is being satisfied by current data.
(e)    Rural Ernployment was identified by 42.1 % as high priority. Employment
is a critical element in the analysis of determining rural income.
(f)    Farm Management was identified by 36.8 % as high priority. Many projects
have farm management as a key component.
(g)   Crop Hectares was identified as high priority by 31.6 %. Crop hectares
like yields are provided by both SEAN and the Division of Statistics/ MAG
sub-sample surveys.
(h)    Small Grains were identified as high priority by 31.6 %. Presently, 95 % of
the small grain used in Ecuador is imported. This may increase to 100 %.
Social and economic information on the native small grain producers was
one highlighted area of interest.
(i)    Mechanization was identified as high priority by 31.6 %. Mechanization is
a means to increase production in projects and programs.
(j)    Soils/Conservation was identified as high priority by 26.3 %. Soils
conservation is paramount to the future of sustainable agriculture in



42
Ecuador. The interviewees of this DURS were interested primarily in
commercial agriculture.
(k)    Social Data were identified as high priority by 26.3 %. Social issues are
important to projects and programs which educate to change behavior.
(1)    Credit was identified as high priority by 26.3 %, as it is thought to be
critical to increase productivity of the land.
Table 11 - Results of the Data Users Requirement Study
Farm Production Expenditures      13       68.4         1       5.3       13      68.4
Rural Income                      10       52.6        0o        0        10      52.6
Land Tenure                        9       47.4         0        0         8      42.1
Crop Yields/Production             8       42.1         11      5.3        7      36.8
Rural Employment                   8       42.1         01       0         8      42.1
Farm Management                    7       36.8         0,       0         7      36.8
Crop Hectares                      6       31.6         1       5. 3       6      31.6
Sm. Grains-W7heat                  6       31.6        01        0         6      31.6
Mechanization                      6       31.6        01        0         61     31.6
Soils/Conservation                 5       26.3        01        0         51     26.3
Social Data                        5       26.3         01       0         5      26.3
Credit (General)                   5       26.3         01       0         5      26.3
Dairy: Milk Production             4       21.1         Oj       0         4      21.1
Irrigation                         4       21.1        01        0         4      21.1
Deforestation                      4       21.1         01       0         4      21.1
Training                           3       15.8         01       0         2      10.5
HealthData                         3       15.8         01       0         0         0
Livestock Management               3       15.8         01       0         3      15.8
Livestock Vaccines                 3       15.8        or        0         3      15.8
T. A.: Livestock                   3       15 8        ol        0         3      15.8
Livestock Credit                   3       15 8         Oj       0         3      15.8
Age Livestock Sold         |       2       10.5        01        0         2      10.5
Weight Livestock Sold              2       10.5        0[        0         2       10.5
Culling Rates                      2       10.5        0l        0         2      10.5
Time Between Livestock birth       2       10.5        01        0         2[     10.5
Weight Livestock weaned            2       10.5         ol       0         21     10.5
Age Livestock Weaned               2       10.5         0l       0         2       10.5
Livestock Death Rates              2       10.5         01       0         2      10.5
Market News                        2       10.5         0l       0:        2      10.5
Pasture Land                       1        5.3        01        0|        1       5.3
Livestock Demographics              1       5.3 _        l       ol        1       5.3
Full-fledged Census                0          0         1-i     5.31       0         0
Note: the total sample comprises 19 public and private institutions
8.     The level of data disaggregation was another important question: are national,
provincial, cantons or parochial level data required? The consequences of this are



43
fundamental for the design of data collection activities. On one hand, MAG and other
public institutions do not require data below the provincial level. On the other hand, the
private sector, projects and programs required a lower level of data disaggregation, such
as the canton and parochial levels. CONADE also indicates the need for accurate data at
these levels.
9.    From the 19 institutions, projects, and programs there were 113 different
infornation needs mentioned. Of these 113 information requirements, there were four
that did not require an analysis of the raw data. The remaining 109 data requirements
need some type of analysis in order for the decision makers to interpret data for
applications in decision-making.



44
ATTACHMENT 4
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CENSUS AND INFORMATION SYSTEM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Planned Meteorological Stations
Identification                Localization                                             Interested Crops
# Code        Name        Latitude Lougit. AMUtde PfuaDea  Pea N oilt Hard C              mm Ce.Ri e  Pq hm  Wee CumBa .   P"  FrWE il   uarl Tota
_____________              m.e~~~o6od             Corn Cuein                 Det   Ieeuas  res V.Sctt Caue   N
1   m44i INGUINCHO          00 1537  782410o  3185   X                                 X-                                    X                3
2  94432 SAN`rA ISABEL      03 16 28  791846   1500         X          X    X                                X                     X    X    6~
3   is-wa LAGO AGRIO DAC  00 06 00  765300o   297                           X                           X    X              Ix                4
4   *e,o- TENA              00 59 57  77 49 30    665                       X                X               Xx                               4
944-73 TAUPA DAC          02 16 00  79 40 50   1 7        x                                                                      x 
6   i.s-o  SUCUA DAC        02 291:  78 09 45    995                        X                                x    X         Ix                4
7   Mo,  BOLIVAR.CARCHI  00 3201l  77 54 05  2640           X    X    X                x                                                      4
8   94432 SALINAS-INB       00 32 00  78 08 00   1730       X               X                                                 X    X    X    5
9   M4r08  MLALO             004635 7834 20 3040   X           F       X  __           X                                      X               4
10  9443_ PUJ1LI(4 ESQUINAS 00 57 12  78042 20   3230   X         X    X  ___           X                                   I X 
I1 3I m0' EL CARMELO         00 40 40  77,3658s  2856   X              x  ___           X                                     X_____  4
12  94104 MIRA-FAO           00 32 00  78 0200o  2270        x    x xX                                                                         3
_ 3__r  CAOOLASQUI-FAG   00 31 057812 40 2335   X    X                  x                                                                      S  
1    -   LITA                 0050 10  70 2857    70                                                                                           6
1 5  m4.11o S PABLO DEL LAO  001252  7810 40   2700               x    x          __x  __                                                      3
16  94.1i0 MALCOItNOU      103 20  7009546  2840   X                   X          __ x  _                                                      3
17  94.1i0 SAN ANTO7NIO PIC  00 00 37  78 26 13   2430                 X          __ X  __                                                     2
18 I4.11  MACHACHOI          00 30 00  784601I  2944   X               X                X                                     x X              4
19  94.1:4 SAN JUANM.ANOA   0035703  7919 00    223                          XX                               x    x    x   x            X    7
20  m120 PATATE              011801  78 3000o  2360   X    X           X                X             Ix                                       5
2 1  94.i20 CALUMA           013712  7915 35    350          xj              x                     x          X                          X    6
22  94.134  L'A.MOTE         01 5000  78 4300o  3020   X        I       x               x                                   IX                 4
23  94-6o EL CAR.MEN         00 19 04  7916 47    250           Ix                    Ix    xix                                                4
24  94n8  BOYACA             00 34 07 801220    370                          x                                 x
25  94.i60 OLMEUOMAXABI 01 23 29  8301257         so0        X               x                                x    x        J                  4
26  m4-163 PEDERNALES        00 03 30  80 03 20   20            1x                    I                                       x                2
2794.1-2 PUEBLO VOIEJO       013202 7931045       32         1X    X                                                     X   X                 4
28  m4.17! EL PROGRESO-O   0200907  80 2052       80                               X                                                           1
29  m 4l- BOLICHE            02 15006  79 38 35    100       xj              x    x          X    X                         I       X          6
30  94.13  GUALAQUIZA        03 24 00  78 34 00    750                       x                                X               x          X    4_
31  m mg  YA\ZA.TZA          03 50 0   78 4500    830                        x                                X              IX                3
32  94207, ZAMORA            04 0S37  78057 00    970                        x                                x              Ix                3
33  94.23  CH4ONTAM,ARCA    02 25010  79 25 07   2271   X       Ix                                                 ___   x                     3
34  M*o3 PUNGALES            00 3500  78 32 45   2550   X               X               x                                                      3
35  mio-ss SALrrP2E                                                     x_   Xx__                                          _  x    _ ___3
36  m4.20i AYCHAPICHO        00 27 30  733      291 X                   x               x                                    IX                4
371 umoz  ESTANCILLA         00 49 00  801300W                               x    xL                                           X               3
381 94-2  UROBNA             0128359  78 42 37   3619   X                               X                                                      2
39  m.AiV COTOPMLALO         00 4000  78 42 00   3250   X                               X                                      X   ___         3
40  ic.oxT T04A2.ON                      -              XX                              X                                                      3
41    A   SIOCHOS            00 40 S   7910W    2900   X                x               x                                      X               4
42    s   PTrO QUITO         OOOS3N  17853 W     150                         x                                                 x              
43    c    JIPIJAPA         10020S  18035 W       50                         x                                   xx3
44    0 D ULMON INDAS4ZA   020         85         0                                                                                    



45
ATTACHMENT S
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CENSUS AND INFORMATION SYSTEM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Consulting Services
Introduction
I1.    The Agricultural Census and Information System Technical Assistance Project (the
Project) contains several information systems components. The Information Systems
Adviser (the IT Adviser) uxill provide advice on all matters concerning these components
to the Technical Secretariat and to the two governmental agencies: INEC and MAG.
Objective and Scope of Wi ork
2.    The scope of the IT Adviser includes all information systems components of the
Project. These include, but are not limited to, consulting with appropriate parties in INEC
and MAG to accomplish the following:
(a)   working with INEC and MAG colleges to develop the requisite
procurement documents for purchasing hardware, software, and
communications for the Project. This would include defining computer
configurations and related information systems components to be
purchased, and it would include devising selection methodologies for
selecting vendors to fulfill information systems procurement actions;
(b)   assisting, where possible, INEC and MAG in the process of receiving
procured information systems components and verifying that they are
consistent writh procurement requirements;
(c)   working with INEC and MAG colleges to develop terms of references for
information systems consultants that are contracted to assist INEC and/or
MAG;
(d)   advising INEC and MAG on directions they should go in terms of
hardware, software, and communications. This would include, for
example, advice on implementing an agricultural database for MAG;
(e)   working with colleges in INEC and MAG to develop strategies and plans
for carrying out information systems components of the Project.
Monitoring and reporting to the Technical Secretariat and the management
of INEC and MAG on the status of information systems plans; and
providing on-the-job transfer of information systems knowledge to relevant staff in
INEC and MAG. This should result, to the extent possible, in information
systems staff in INEC and MAG being self sufficient in information



46
technology in two years or less. That is, the IT Adviser should strive to
work him/herself out of a job in two years or less.
Qualifications and Experience
3.    The Information Systems Adviser should have the following experience:
(a)   a working, in-depth knowledge of modern client/server application
systems. This includes microcomputers, local area networks (LANs), LAN
and database servers, communications systems, and the software that make
these components operate efficiently and effectively;
(b)   a working knowledge of databases, data administration and database
administration. This should include experience with one of the leading
database systems: Oracle, Sybase, or Informix;
(c)   experience developing procurement documents (e.g., Request for
Information and Request for Proposal) and selecting vendors that respond;
(d)   the ability to think strategically and to see the big picture with respect to
information systems; and
(e)   the ability to work well with others, and especially the ability to help others
understand complex information systems matters.
Technical Secretariat Director
Terms of Reference (draft)
Introduction
1.    The Agricultural Census and Information System Technical Assistance Project (the
Project) intends to hire a Director which would have overall responsibility for heading the
project Technical Secretariat (TS). The TS would manage the Project for a specific
period of three years, with authority for general coordination, international procurement of
products, operation of bank accounts, preparing and maintaining accounts, arranging
external auditing, and monitoring project accomplishments. The project Directive Council
would select the TS director, with Bank agreement, and will delegate necessary authority
to enable him to carry out its functions satisfactorily through line management fiunctions.
Objective and Scope of Work
2.    The main objective of hiring the director is to provide leadership to TS in
accomplishing the following functions: to coordinate MAG and INEC PIUs, to prepare
and maintain accurate and up to date accounts, to arrange timely external auditing, and to
monitor project accomplishments. He will also be responsible to report the physical and
financial progress of the activities to the Government, project Directive Council, and the
Bank. The director's scope of work will include, but not lirnited to, the following:



47
(i)    General
(a)   head and organize the Technical Secretariat, preparing job specifications,
responsibilities, and qualifications for each position in the TS;
(b)   support and coordinate MAG and INEC Project Implementation Units;
(c)   ensure implementation of loan agreement with the Bank; and
(d)   maintain a dialogue with the users of project information to ensure
congruity;
(ii)   Administration
(a)   review and develop PIU's general financial activities and accounting
applications. Evaluate the system of internal controls, degree of integration
and functionality;
(b)   review the existing systems and develop a financial information base and
reporting system to support effective planning and control at various
operational and managerial levels;
(c)   review the allocation of responsibilities for the accounting functions and
disbursement applications. Control that administrative rules and
procedures are applied; and
(d)   prepare a program for systematic and timely external auditing of all PlU's
accounts and make available audited reports to Government and the Bank;
(iii)  Procurement
(a)   conduct, with the assistance of the procurement adviser, negotiations for
concluding international contractual agreements; and
(b)   support the two PIUs in procurement of goods and services;
(iv)   Monitoring
(a)   prepare a statistical information collection program to monitor project
performances and utilization of data and reports produced by the project;
(b)   prepare financial and physical progress report of the project for
presentation to Government and the Bank;
(c)   translate the functional specifications, stated above, into an integrated
computerized financial and Management Information System. Assist the
two PIUs in the acquisition development and implementation of above
software applications;
Qualifications and Experience
3.    The candidate should be qualified in management fields with a minimum of 15
years of experience (complementing each other) in management of internationally financed



48
development projects (preferably with significant technical assistance components);
procurement of international consultants; financial management and banking
arrangements. Past experience in project management with internationally known
companies is essential.



49
Attachment 6
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CENSUS AND INFORMATION SYSTEM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COST TABLES
Project Cost Summary by Component
(US$)
%     % Total
Foreign   Base
Local      Forelgn      Total    Exchange Costs
Agricultural Policy Process
Sectoral Policy                                        1,525,200    1,188,200    2,713,400     44      12
Sectoral Public Investments                              231,440     299,360     530,800       56       2
Subtotal Agricultural Policy Process                     1,756,640   1,487,560    3,244,200      46      14
Agr. lnf. & Dissemination Sercle
Agricultural Information SerCe                           559,600      98,400      658,000      15       3
Market Price & News                                      340,200     240,000     580,200       41       2
Agroclimatc Evaluation                                   562,000     808,800    1,370,800      59       6
Computer Center                                          212,720     167,680     380,400       44       2
Subtotal Agr. nf. & Dissemination Servce                 1,674,520    1,314,880    2,989,400     44      13
Agricultural Sample Census (ASC)
Agricultural Sample Census (ASC)                       7,548,980   3,117,920   10,664,900      29      46
ASC Data Processng                                       519,360     400,840      920,200      44       4
Subtotal Agricultural Sample Census (ASC)                8,066,340   3,518,760   11,585,100      30      S0
National System of Agricultural Statistics (SEAN)
Agric. Farm Production Survey (AFPS)                   1,277,380     319,220    1,596,600      20       7
Subtotal National System otAgricultural Statistics (SEAN)  1,277.380   319,220    1,596,600      20       7
Project Administration
Technical Secretariat                                  2,040,800    1,008,000    3,048,800     33      13
INEC PIU                                                 696,000          -      696,000        -       3
MAG PIU                                                   84,000          -       84,000        -       -
Subtotal Project Administration                          2,820,800    1,008,000    3,828,800     26      16
Total BASELINE COSTS                                     15,595,680   7,648,420   23,244,100     33      100
Physical Contingencies                                    56,580      84,870      141,450      60       1
Price Contingencies                                    1,739,448     209,904    1,949,352      11       8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      17.391,708   7,943,194   25,334,902     31      109



50
Project Cost Summary by Expenditure Account
(US$)
%     % Total
Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign       Total    Exchange Costs
Investment Costs
Civil Works                                19,000       1,000       20,000        5       -
Vehicles & Equipment
Computers                               134,700     538,800      673,500       80       3
Vehicles                                157,000     628,000      785,000       80       3
Fumiture                                316,800      35,200      352,000       10       2
Other Equipment                         107,600     430,400      538,000       80       2
Subtotal Vehicles & Equipment             716,100    1,632,400    2,348,500      70      10
Technical Assistance
Local Consultants                     2,346,800           -    2,346,800        -      10
Foreign Consultants                           -   2,492,000     2,492,000     100      11
Subtotal Technical Assistance            2,346,800    2,492,000   4,838,800      52      21
Training                                  172,800     691,200      864,000       80       4
Service Contracts                        6,916,500    768,500     7,685,000      10      33
Total Investment Costs                    10,171,200    5,585,100    15,756,300    35      68
Recurrent Costs
Incremental Recurrent Costs
Incremental Salaries                   2,467,200          -    2,467,200        -      I1
Allowances                              362,000           -      362,000        -       2
O&M                                    1,131,600    1,697,400   2,829,000      60      12
Subtotal Incremental Recurrent Costs     3,960,800    1,697,400   5,658,200      30      24
Salaries                                 1,463,680    365,920     1,829,600       -       8
Total Recurrent Costs                      5,424,480    2,063,320    7,487,800     28      32
Total BASEUNE COSTS                       15,595,680    7,648,420    23,244,100    33    100
Physical Contingencies                     56,580      84,870      141,450       60       1
Price Contingencies                      1,739,448    209,904     1,949,352      11       8
Total PROJECT COSTS                       17,391,708    7,943,194    25,334,902    31    109



51
Disbursements by Semesters
(US$ '000)
Semester     IBRD          GOE       Total Project
Cost
1                -           750          750
2             1,256          304         1,560
3             1,645          346         1,991
4             3,912          928         4,840
5             3,621          875         4,496
6             2,978          724         3,702
7             2,972          635         3,607
8             1,908          407         2,315
9             1,713          360         2,073
Total         20,005          5,329      25,334



52
Summary of Disbursements Schedule
(US$ '000)
Category              Amount
Allocated
Consultant Services and Training     5,300
Vehicles and Equipment               2,200
Service Contracts                    7,500
Civil Works                             20
Incremental Recurrent Costs          2,900
Refunding of PPF                       850
Unallocated                          1,230
Total                               20,000



53
Ecuador
Agricultural Census and Information System TA Project
Table 1. Project Administration
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Base Cost
1998      1999       2000      2001       Total
Investment Costs
Technical Secretariat
Director                         66,000    66,000    66,000    66,000   264,000
Technical Adviser               108,000   108,000   108,000   108,000   432,000
Financial Administrator          30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000   120,000
Procurement Expert               36,000    36,000    36,000    36,000   144,000
Technical Expert                 24,000    24,000    24,000    24,000    96,000
Administration Assistant         31,200    31,200    31,200    31,200   124,800
Subdirector                      42,000    42,000    42,000    42,000   168,000
Internal Auditor                 18,000    18,000    18,000    18,000    72,000
Adm. Finance & Legal Officer    18,000    18,000    18,000    18,000    72,000
Subtotal Technical Secretaxiat   373,200   373,200   373,200   373,200 1,492,800
HAG pIU
Guayaquil coordinator            12,000    24,000    24,000    24,000    84,000
_NEC PIU
Director                         30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000   120,000
Finance & legal officer          72,000    72,000    72,000    72,000   288,000
Technical adviser                72,000    72,000    72,000    72,000   288,000
Subtotal INEC PIU                 174,000   174,000   174,000   174,000   696,000
Planning workshops                 10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    40,000
Seminars                           20,000    20,000    20,000    20,000    80,000
Vehicles                           50,000    50,000           -          -   100,000
Office Equipment
Furniture                        80,000    80,000           -         -   160,000
Computers                        60,000          -    40,000          -   100,000
Communication eq.                 8,000          -     4,000          -    12,000
Copiers                          10,000          -    10, 000         -    20,000
Subtotal Office EquipFmnt         158,000    80,000    54,000           -   292,000
Evaluation                              -    50,000           -    50,000   100,000
External audits                    50,000    50,000    50,000    50,000   200,000
Total Investment Costs              847,200   831,200   705,200   701,200 3,084,800
Recurrent Costs
O & M                             120,000   120,000   120,000   120,000   480,000
Salaries to incremental staff      66,000    66,000    66,000    66,000   264,000
Total Recurrent Costs               186,000   186,000   186,000   186,000   744,000
rotal                              1,033,200 1,017,200   891,200   887,200 3,828,800



54
Ecuador
Agricultural Census and Information System TA Project
Table 2. Policy Analysis
Detailed Costs
(US$)
3ase Cost
1998       1999      2000       2001      Total
Investment Costs
Long Term TA                           72,000    72,000    72,000    72,000   288,000
Short Term TA                         160,000   200,000   160,000   160,000   680,000
Long Term Training                           -   150,000   150,000           -   300,000
Short Term Training                    22,500    37,500    37,500    22,500   120,000
Private sector workshops /a                  -    16,000    16,000    16,000    48,000
Computers                                    -    45,000    45,000           -    90,000
Total Investment Costs                  254,500   520,500   480,500   270,500 1,526,000
Recurrent Costs
0 & M                                  30,000    39,000    45,000    45,000   159,000
Salaries to MAG Incremental Staff    54,000    60,000    72,000    78,000   264,000
Incremental Salaries                  156,000   202,800   202,800   202,800   764,400
Total Recurrent Costs                   240,000   301,800   319,800   325,800 1,187,400
Total                                     494,500   822,300   800,300   596,300 2,713,400
\a 30 local participants per workshop



55
Ecuador
Agricultural Census and Information System TA Project
Table 3. Sectoral Investments
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Base Cost
1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
Investment Costs
Long Term TA                    30,000  30,000  30,000  30,000 120,000
Short Term Training                   -  15,000        -  15,000  30,000
Project Evaluation              20,000  20,000  20,000  20,000  80,000
Computers                        6,000        -   6,000        -  12,000
Total Investment Costs            56,000  65,000  56,000  65,000 242,000
Recurrent Costs
0 & M                            5,000   5,000   5,000   5,000  20,000
Salaries to Incremental Staff  48,000  48,000  48,000  48,000 192,000
Salaries to Incremental Staff  19,200  19,200  19,200  19,200  76,800
Total Recurrent Costs             72,200  72,200  72,200  72,200 288,800
Total                             128,200 137,200 128,200 137,200 530,800



56
Ecuador
Agricultural Census and Information System TA Project
Table 4. Agricultural Statistics
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Base Cost
1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
Investment Costs
Long Term TA                          30,000  30,000  30,000         -  90,000
Short Term TA                          4,000   4,000   4,000   2,000  14,000
Short Term Training                    7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500  30,000
Computers                             12,000        -  12,000        -  24,000
Dissemination Workshops                6,000   6,000   6,000   6,000  24,000
Total Investment Costs                  59,500  47,500  59,500  15,500 182,000
Recurrent Costs
O&M /a                                15,000  15,000  15,000  15,000  60,000
Salaries for Incremental MAG Staff  48,000  48,000  48,000  48,000 192,000
Salaries for Incremental Staff        36,000  36,000  36,000  36,000 144,000
Survey Contracts                      20,000  20,000  20,000  20,000  80,000
Total Recurrent Costs                  119,000 119,000 119,000 119,000 476,000
Total                                   178,500 166,500 178,500 134,500 658,000
\a Printing, stationery, etc.



57
Ecuador
Agricultural Census and Information System TA Project
Table 5. Market Price & News
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Base Cost
1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
Investment Costs
LongTerm TA                          30,000        -  30,000         -  60,000
Short Term TA                        40,000  40,000  20,000  20,000 120,000
Short Term Training                   7,500   7,500   7,500   7,500  30,000
Dissemination Workshops               6,000   6,000   6,000   6,000  24,000
Computers                                  -  30,000        -        -  30,000
Vehicles                             15,000        -        -        -  15,000
Total Investmnet Costs                 98,500  83,500  63,500  33,500 279,000
Recurrent Costs
O & M                                24,000  24,000  24,000  24,000  96,000
Salaries of Incremental MAG Staff  18,000  24,000  24,000  24,000  90,000
Salaries of Incremental Staff        28,800  28,800  28,800  28,800 115,200
Total Recurrent Costs                  70,800  76,800  76,800  76,800 301,200
Total                                  169,300 160,300 140,300 110,300 580,200



58
Ecuador
Agricultural Census and Information System TA Project
Table 6. Agroclimatic Evaluation
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Base Cost
1998      1999       2000       2001      Total
Investment Costs
Long Term TA                           18,000    18,000    18,000            -    54,000
Short Term TA                          60,000    60,000    40,000            -   160,000
Short Term training                    15,000      7,500      7,500          -    30,000
Workshops /a                             2,000      2,000     2,000      2,000      8,000
Computers                              18,000           -    12,000          -    30,000
Vehicles                                40,000          -          -         -    40,000
Metereological Equipment
Meteo Stations                      350,000           -          -         -   350,000
Satellite Receiver                  150,000           -         -          -   150,000
Subtotal Meteseological Equipznent   500,000            -          -         -   500,000
Total Investment Costs                   653,000    87,500    79,500       2,000   822,000
Recurrent Costs
0 & M /b                                70,000    70,000    70,000    70,000   280,000
Salaries of Incremental MAG Staff    48,000    48,000    48,000    48,000   192,000
Incremental Salaries                   19,200    19,200    19,200    19,200    76,800
Total Recurrent Costs                    137,200   137,200   137,200   137,200   548,800
Total                                     790,200   224,700   216,700   139,200 1,370,800
\a 100 participants per workshop
\b Maintainence of 41 Meteo Stations & Operation of MAG Directorate



59
Ecuador
Agricultural Census and Information System TA Project
Table 7. Computer Center
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Base Cost
1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
Investment Costs
Short Term TA                        40,000  20,000         -        -  60,000
Short Term Training                   7,500   7,500         -        -  15,000
Computers                            24,000        -  15,000         -  39,000
Software & Special Equip.            12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000  48,000
Total Investment Costs                 83,500  39,500  27,000  12,000 162,000
Recurrent Costs
0 & M /a                             10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000  40,000
Salaries of Incremental MAG Staff  42,000  42,000  42,000  42,000 168,000
Salaries of Incremental Staff         2,600   2,600   2,600   2,600  10,400
Total Recurrent Costs                  54,600  54,600  54,600  54,600 218,400
Total                                  138,100  94,100  81,600  66,600 380,400
\a For all the project computers in MAG



60
Ecuador
Agricultural Census and Information System TA Project
Table 8. Agricultural Sample Census (ASC)
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Base Cost
1998       1999        2000        2001      Total
Investment Costs
Short Term TA                           360,000    360,000    120,000            -    840,000
Short Term Training                      30,000      30,000      30,000          -      90,000
Computers                               202,500           -           -          -    202,500
Offset Printer and Furniture             60,000           -           -           -     60,000
Vehicles                                630,000           -           -           -    630,000
Census Service Contracts
Data Collection & Input               540,000  3,000,000  1,020,000            -  4,560,OOC
Car Rental                             50,000  1,350,000    300,000            -  1,700,00C
Subtotal Census Servioe Contracts       590,000  4,350,000  1,320,000             -  6,260,00C
Total Investment Costs                  1,872,500  4,740,000  1,470,000             -  8,082,50C
Recurrent Costs
o & M
Stationery                            150,000    150,000    150,000            -    450,OC
Tickets & Allowances                   30,000      30,000      30,000          -      90,OOC
other Operational Costs               200,000    600,000    100,000            -    900,00C
Subtotal 0 & M                          380,000    780,000    280,000             -  1,440,OOC
Salaries of Incremental INEC Staff    163,200    163,200    163,200               -    489,60(
Incremental Salaries                    163,200    163,200    163,200    163,200    652,80C
Total Recurrent Costs                     706,400  1,106,400    606,400    163,200  2,582,40C
Total                                    2,578,900  5,846,400  2,076,400    163,200 10,664,90(



61
Ecuador
Agricultural Census and Information System TA Project
Table 9. Data Processing
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Base Cost
1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
Investment Costs
Short Term Training                   15,000  15,000  15,000          -  45,000
Computers                             90,000        -        -        -  90,000
Software                              12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000  48,000
Other equipment                       18,000        -        -        -  18,000
Building repair                       20,000        -        -       -  20,000
Total Investment Costa                 155,000  27,000  27,000  12,000 221,000
Recurrent Costs
O & M                                 27,000  27,000  27,000  27,000 108,000
Salaries of Incremental INEC Staff  86,400  86,400  86,400  86,400 345,600
Salaries of Incremental Staff         28,800  28,800  28,800  19,200 105,600
Stock Maintenance                     35,000  35,000  35,000  35,000 140,000
Total Recurrent Coats                  177,200 177,200 177,200 167,600 699,200
Total                                   332,200 204,200 204,200 179,600 920,200



62
Ecuador
Agricultural Census and Information System TA Project
Table 10. National System of Agricultural Statistics (SEAN)
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Base Cost
1998      1999       2000       2001      Total
Investment Costs
Short Term Training                            -    15,000    15,000           -    30,000
Computers                                 60,000          -          -         -    60,000
Aerial Photography                             -    45,000           -         -    45,000
Equipment                                      -    10,000    10,000           -    20,000
Data Collection & Input                 200,000   100,000   200,000   200,000   700,000
Car Rental                                     -   100,000   100,000   100,000   300,000
Total Investment Costs                     260,000   270,000   325,000   300,000 1,155,000
Recurrent Costs
0 & M                                    24,000    24,000    24,000    24,00 v    96,000
Salaries for Incremental INEC Staff    57,600    57,600    57,600    57,600   230,400
Salaries for Incremental Staff           28,800    28,800    28,800    28,800   115,200
Total Recurrent Costs                      110,400   110,400   110,400   110,400   441,600
Total                                       370,400   380,400   435,400   410,400 1,596,600



63
ATIrACEMENT 7
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL CENSUS AND INFORMATION SYSTEM
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Disbursement Profile
Calendar Year  Disbursement by   Cumulative        Cumulative        Standard       Cumulative
and Semester      Semester       Disbursement  Disbursement as  Disbursement         Standard
% of Credit     Profile (%)    Disbursement
1998  I                 1.0             1.0               5               6              1.2
II               1.7              2.7             14               14             2.8
1999  I                 1.8             4.5             23               22              4.4
II               2.3              6.8             34               34             6.8
2000  I                 1.8             8.6              43              42              8.4
II               1.6             10.2             51               54             10.8
2001  I                 3.0            13.2              66              70             14.0
II               3.4             16.6             83               82             16.4
2002  I                2.5             19.1              96              98             19.6
II               0.9             20.0            100              100            20.0
TOTAL                   20.0
- Loan effectiveness, completion and closing dates assumed to be March 31, 1998, March 31, 2002,
and September 30, 2002 respectively.
- Standard disbursement profile is derived from Financial Database Report Utility, June 30, 1994
and refers to technical assistance projects only.
- The Loan comprises a PPF of US$750,000.



ECUADOR
INFORMATION SERVICE AND AGRICULTURAL CENSUS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Monitoring anld Evaluation Indicators
Component 1: Agricultural Policy Process
Sub-component Activity       Imp. Agency  Start/End      Impact Indicators         Monitoring Indicators
Trade Policy                 MAG            1/98-12/01    Trade Policy Harmonized   Trade Negotiations        6      6       6      4
Trade Barriers Reduced   Trade Policy Seminars      6      6       6      4
Increascd Regional Tradc   Tradc Negotiation Memos    18   18      18     12
Protection Rates         Trade Policy Papers        3      4       3      2
Sector Situation Analysis    MAG            1/98-12/01    Private Sector Demand    Commodity Reports          54     54      54     54
Improved Decisions       Special Reports            4      6       6      4
Policy Clianges               ec
AnalysisofCompelilivcness    MAG            1/98-12/01    PrivateoSector Demand SAMb-sector RepoAns           9      9       11     11
Improved Decisions       Special RMporis            4      4       4      4
Policy Changes           Semiinars                  4      4       4      4
Policy Infornmation Service  MAG            1/98-12/01    Private Sector Dcmand    Publications               98     101    102    91
Improved Decisions       Seminars                   10     10      10     8
Policy Clianges          InlerNet Use (% chlange)          25      20     20
Budg,et Analysis             MAG            1/')X-12/01    Imiproved Budgct Alloc.    MAG Budget Anailyses    1      2       2      1
Scctor Budget Analysis            I      I
Project Moniiioring Reports   8   8      8       6
Pfoject Evaluialions       I      I      I     I
Training Received            MAG            1/98-12/01    Increased Tech. Capacity   Short-courses            1      2       2      1
MS Degrees                        3      3



ECUADOR
INFORMATION SERVICE AND AGRICULTURAL CENSUS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Component II: Agricultural Statistics
Sub-component Activity      Imp). Agency  Start/End    Impact Indicators         Monitoring Indicators
Evaluate Current Data Sets  MAG            1/98-3/99    Improved Data            Data Sct Evaluationis      3      3
More Complete Data Sets
I iiiprovc(l Aauilysis
Improve Data Quality        MAG            1/98-12/01    Private Sector Demanid    Imnp. Mcthodlology-Stocks  1           54     54
Improved Decisions      Imp. Method-Farm Prices     1             6      4
Imp. Method-Regional Trade  I
Imp. Method-Others                3
Operationalize Imp. Methlods      6
Farm Priees                    I
Stocks                        1
Regional Trade                 I
Others                        3
Design & Imp. Data-Inf. Sets    MAO        1/98-12/01    Private Sector Demand   Publications               18    30    30       24
Accessible, Refevant Data  Statistical Bulletins    12    12    12       9
lniprovcd Dccisions     Scuiinars                  2      4      4      2
InterNet Use (% change)           25     20     20
Training Reccived            MAG           1/98-12Aol    Increased Teclh. Capacity   Short-Courscs          3      6      4      2



ECUADOR
INFORMATION SERVICE AND AGRICULTURAL CENSUS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Component III: Agricultural Census
Sub-component Activity       Imp. Agency  Start/End    Impact Indicators          Monitoring Indicators       1      2      3      4
Prepare Ag. Census           INEC          01/98-08/99   Sampling methodology     New sample frame            I
Reliable information     Canography updated         I
Stratification             I
Questionnaire              1
Output Tables              1
Sample Selected            1
Training                          2
Ficld test                        2
Data Collection              INEC          09/99-12/99   Quality Data             No. Interviews (000)               250
Reliable Information
Data proccssing and anialysis   IN I-.( lC  01/)0-0)A/)0  Qualily Processing      Flapsed illic                     4m11
Reliable information     Non-sainplinag crrors             sm
Result dissemination         INEC          04/00-        Availability of ccnsus data  Circulation (000)              1     2       1
Usc of census data       Electroniic databasc              I      I
R liablc Iinforinationi
Training                     INEC          1/98-12/01    Computing skill increase   No. of trained staff     15    12    12
of INEC staff            No. of IMPS trainees       9             4
No. of LAN trainees        3             3



ECUADOR
INFORMATION SERVICE AND AGRICULTURAL CENSUS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Component IV: Agricultural Farms Surveys
Sub-component Activity       Imp. Agency  Start/End    Impact Indicators         Monitoring Indicators      1       2      3      4
Prepare Prod. Survey-Coast   INEC          02/98-05/98   Efficient & Rapid Survey   Sample Selection        I              1
02/00-05/00                           Questionnaire              1              1
Training Manuals           1              1
Implement Prod. Survey-Coast  INEC        06/98-09/98   Reliable data on major   Elapsed Processing time    4 wks.         3 wks
06/00-09/()0  harvest                 Non-sampling crrors
Implcuient Nat'l Prod. Survey   INEC      09/98-03/99   Reliable National Data   Elapsed Processing Tinie   2m Inm 1
09/00-03/00                           Non-Sampling errors
Prepare Farm Exp. Survey     INEC         02/98-05/98   Efficient & Rapid Survey   Sample Selection         1              1
(subsample Coast survey)                  02/00-00/00                            Questionnaire              1              1
Training Manuals           1              1



ECUADOR
INFORMATION SERVICE AND AGRICULTURAL CENSUS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
- Monitorng and Evaluation lndicators
Component V: Prject Management
Sub-component Activity       Imnp. Agency  Start/End    hupact Indiaktors        Monitoring indicators      1        2     3      4   -
ManagIenCnt and              TS l'JU       01/98-12/01   Projcct pCrfonikuacc    DisburseCIicIIt (USS il;lionI)   3  6     6      3
AdministraCion                                                                   inlernal a1dtling          2        2     2 -     I
Ext.Cnal auditi;g         I       1      1      3
ProcurcI1icIIt               1S I'lU      (0)1/98-12/OI   Avilability or requrirCd  Pufchasc contputcrs     125                    125
conisultanit and cquipmcnt  Purcihase velhicies     3 1                   31
Contract Tech. Assistance    25    30    25      10
oo



LCIiADOIt
INf-OI tMA roN SERVICE AND AGIICULTURAL CENSUS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Imnplementation Schedule
Calondar Year 1991        1990                1999       1      7000               2001
Quarter   4    1   2   3   4   1   7   3   4   I   2   3   4   1   2    3   4
IUI)I Fiscal Year    1998              1999               210               200 f         2002
Negotlations
Board Approval
Effecliveness
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Technical Socretariat Set-up
PIU/INEC Set-up
Operations Manual Adopted
Obtain GOE Dudgot Allot
Tech Assist Bid P'ropared                                                                                                                                     0a
Tech Assist Contract Signed
Manage TA Provision              -*
Dev IT EqulpmonlTech Specs
tr Did Prepared
IT Contrad Signed
IT Equipment Installed
Dev Vehide Toch Specs
Vehicle (lid Prepased
Vohiclo Conlract Signod
Vohkclos In-Counbry
Annual Plan&Budget Proparod
Inilial IBRD Disbursoment
Initiate LT Training                                                                   ..
MS Training in US/Ag Econ                   __              . ..    - :                           I
Graduates flelurn & Work                    _                                   I
Develop Ino Sorvice
Contract Audit                                              1
Conitact Evaluation                                                                                                ls*.



Pbroled Irnplementation Schedule
Calendlar Yeau 1997         1990                1999        1       2000               7U01 I
(tUJ(t't  4  |I    2   3   4     t    2    3   Ft[I   ?   3   4   i  2    3   4 !..
11i1-t) Fiscal Yp0I   1998       i       1999        1       2000               2001           2002
AGRICULTURAL STATISTIC,_
Evalunte Ag S5alislics
Ptoduclon.
Pticos
Weather
Trade
Consurnplion
Slocks
Improve Ag Dula Quality
1roluductionl
Prfices
Wealhe,
Trdce
Consumplton
Stocks
Design Info-Gata Sevioe                                                                                                                                                 C
Impim Info-Data Scivice-
IN I IRNET Suivice
Publications Servico
Markot Pricos & Nows Service
tEvaluallon (above)
Farm-gato Pri" Molhodology
Imnpim Farm-1palo lPrice Moltu_d
Wlholesale ilrce Mritihodoiogy
ilm1pin, WA/ofosafn Plrico   thil_
IBl(JII 'iil(.0 Motlhod ol(ty 
lillnpir l](iliM Ir 1w1ice Methliod-
l11rpmln I'cur ';I!Ivl O  -
IN I IlNA    T mrvk                                                _
Publications SCOrvlc1o
,hodttrIcnn Tramn_n-



I      I                    III
Projed Itnplomenlalion Scheduln
Calenidur Year 1997 |         19I3                -1999                 2000                 2001
Quarlor   4      1    2' 3   4    1    2    3    4    1   2    3   4    1    2    3    4
lBfl) Fiscal Y   .ar    1991                1999                 2000                2001  --   t  7002
AG POLICY PROCESS
Sector Policy
Trade Policy Agerulas                            . .w1 
Tradc Policy Analysis|-                                                        ,
I ralc Ncgolihons                               ;    m          m         ' '                 -          . '*
An.ly.s of Cortip Adv(.    ,                                     .
IrriliiiCrDeill ['oll y inlo  ,(o,I VUA                           ,
IN I LlNF I ';oiv                                                                               .                            .;
P'ublications S'ciVicc                                    ..-.-,                                                                t
'm'miIirri arid I)lalogalm,.
Moriitor Lffo.ts 1--1 Nd)o               '
Soctor Investment
Increm. Staff Contract
Analysis MAO Invest Budget                                   -
AnnlysIs Sector Invest liudget                                                  -
Design Project Monil Sysir                          . ..         .
Imp lPfoi Mouiiioritig Sysloni                                 -   -
Project Evaluallons                                        : , ____'____m.m                    m                m



Prooclt IamplementalloA Schedule
Calondoa Year 1997         1998               1999               2000               2001
astaler 4   1  2  3 4,L   2341234*   1  234
lBRD Fiscal Yeaf     1998               1909              2000               201        i2002
AGRICULTUkAL C'2NSUS
Dosign & Preparalion
Fiold Test
Train & ilre Interviewers
Field Colletion
Dals PNooessing
Dissemination & Publication
INTERNET Sorvice
IT Equipment Installod (above)
Vehicles In-country (above)
Oata Procosaing
IT Equipment Installed (at"s '
Softwaro Installallon L T;anoing
Ptogruliis Prepared & Tested
Census Processed                                                                   _                                                                              _
Shoal-mimn 1raining
AGRICULTURAL FARM SURVEYS
AU ProducIlon Survey/Coast
Ag Produdion SuiveylNataonal
Farm Expendiltue Survoy/Coast sub sanmplo
:I



_,         Pro ccl I ~moeitr)naIon SclI4Ie           _______
calen(tljr YnArtte          t r9                   1999g                JM ?01               0111
_ _l__ _ar    |        2         4 4    2  4   24 |              2    3    4    1 t        1   4
llflfl 1ixcd    l      utearu u    nu I            I                     1       01I  2002
Agrocilmatik Evalatilon
Evaluallon (above)                                        MK . 
MnnAor El NHfo                                12
Detfne System Tech Expanslon Palh
Procwuemon Tecdi Specs
Procurer,eait Process & Wil
hIst alation & Operalk)n                                    .                                        k.i::
Sho,t-tegrn Trahigm
Coulracl TA (nalional)                             -
Design Agcilma Into Servicc e.
Impirn Aocimna Iilo SoAice-
INTERNET Scrvice                                      !*
Puilicatiotis Service 1 Sr-z -2 ............ :'
Compuiter Cen_.er
IT Eqpnlctsi Installed (above)                                  .y
Makietionwa 8 TA Soivices                 E- Z                                                                  c;$            Y
Trrinilg Courses                                                                                                .........., -
Systems Devekipmeri-
Price Service Syutcnl                                    zi.4.   :K
AgcCama Setvice sy.Aem:ni






IBRD 28022
g        - 804       -          -    ~~~~~~           ~          ~~~79  R<  780            7                          76                ^     -
Son Loren fG      '
ESMERAD                      0 g >                                                     C O  L O  M B I A
PA C I-   c f  .MERALDASV                                                       A
a C F Ai N                                                               I'  O                                      "' -, s
)  a'   _                                           a>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  Lcsgo Ario S&
g~~~~~~~at Domingo                                                                          Sh.i e md-tR  i7Do -S 
i M AL   B I                                          g                                        wf /t< 8 -'  a  erto Francisco'  i,-, .
Bahia de Car6quePt                                                                                           N)A    P_^0 4X) vo     rlaa.oO 
-~~~~~~~~~~OO'(  /''~                                           'Y                '                              tao   RoCcTsX}-N fNuevo 
r                           rEg vNGA gArchidona                                  R. 'ei;
VqLa~cotfIbarrO            ~          ~         ~         ~         ' -
,.           (i~~~~j?~~ ~AdB~ATO                                                                 Conou,uco /-
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HA                                 M7                          % .*  
SalinX ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ - G U~              0d                                                                                         '   MCS-tJ f    ;    '  
'.:~~~~~~,                  B                                                        P A C 4  T Ag IZ ''A
MBA Poloro
2'                                                                                        "~'N~A,0     >   "g Ito                                               2
G Ao2 .U A Y4                                    ),                 J1                                 
Salinas,                                       Naro   a                  '. ;*"
GUAYAWULI 5mq                        ~-
CA-t'    ,        --s      A R54 // SGANAPAGO -
\-/NaroniA <AN  I A                                          G                                       6 A
0'5   -Gen'eraCt L                                    -
JE A/ Piata Gutierrez3-
Gulf of                                      U  
C uaya 9                                                                                                       I
MACH LA                   oquiZaECUADOR
-k,~~~~ ~ ~ C5                                                     7             h  ondre,clos7eom'sln
0 ~  25    s0i  775   10                                                                       77'Bx,. ItAACIT5A   himpOofliriairho
GALAPAGOS ISLANDS                              PE ROADS
1'  (ARCHIP16LAGO DE COL6N)                --~OTHER ALL-WEATHER ROADS
ILA Nk41A                                       -i-'-RAiLROADS
ZAORA                              '~~~~~~~ISLA GENOVESA       ' AROT
~~  /\1~~~LOJA)    (779                                                      *~~~~~~~~II ~PORTS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
0 25S0 5  100  SANTA~                   SALVADOR 15iAschvINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
P  E  R  U                                 KILO A             9 
a.  ISMLA SANTA CRUZ
'ISLA                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations
-5'                                              5                         SABELA                                               andl any other information shown on
0    25    S0   75   1DO                                                          ISLA SAN CRisT68AL               this map do not imply, on the por of
I   I                                                                      1         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The World Banks Group, any 1udmer
KILOMETERS                                                     ISAon the legal status of any territory, or
0   25  5D  75  1 OD SANTA MARfA-'.             ISLA ESPAt;OLA           any endorsement or acceptance of
______________such boundaries
81'                      SD~~~~~~~~0              KILOMETERS        91'                   90'
MAY 1996



