Report No. PIC663
Project Name             Ecuador-Agricultural Census and Information System
TA Project
Region                   Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                   Agriculture
Project ID               ECPA7135
Implementing Agencies                Ministry of Agriculture (MAG)
Contact: Mr. Ramon del Salto
Tel. 593-2-566-757
Fax. 593-2-564-972
National Statistical and Census
Institute (INEC)
Contact: Mr. Galo Arias
Tel. 593-2-519-604
Fax. 593-2-580-041
Date PID Prepared                    March 30, 1995
Date Initial PID Prepared            November 30, 1993
Tentative Appraisal Date             April 1995
Tentative Board Date                 October 1995
Background
1.    In 1993, the agriculture sector (comprising crops, livestock,
forestry, and fisheries) contributed 12 percent of Ecuador's national
GDP, 43 percent of exports and provided employment for 31 percent of
the economically active population. Sectoral growth responded well to
the major efforts of the eighties to reform the economy. The
abandonment of import-substituting industrialization, and
liberalization of the exchange rate help explain why agricultural GDP
grew at 4.0 percent p.a. during 1982-91, up from only 2.5 percent p.a.
during 1973-81. However, in recent years, growth has slowed to about
3 percent per year. The key to addressing this broad problem of
unrealized sectoral growth lies in improving productivity.
2.    Improvements in sectoral productivity require a sound policy
environment. In this context, in parallel to the Government's
stabilization program, which commenced in late 1992, a reform program
was initiated in the agricultural sector. This has advanced
satisfactorily. While productivity growth will come from the
privately owned agricultural sector, it requires that the Government
provides key public goods. One of these vital public goods is
information on which farmers, traders, and agricultural processors can
make decisions. This is particularly important too as Government
moves away from its past broad program of investments towards targeted
interventions to help the poor and indigenous people. The weak data
on rural areas (the last agricultural census was conducted in 1974)
adversely affects private sector decision making as well. The lack of
reliable data on planting intentions, and agro-climatic trends leads
to wrong decisions and higher costs of operation than would be the



case with improved information.
Project Objectives
3.    The proposed technical assistance project aims to improve quality
and accessibility of rural and agricultural information to both public
and private decision makers, through: (i) standardization of
collection and processing methodologies to allow comparability, cross-
examination, and verification of the data; and (ii) an efficient and
user-friendly dissemination network, which will also offer high
quality, demand-driven analyses of sectoral issues.
Project Description
4.    The project would include the following five components:    (a)
Agricultural Policy Process (US$4.9 million); (b) Agricultural
Information and Dissemination Service (US$5.7 million);
(c) Agricultural Sample Census (US$11.4 million); (d) National
Statistical and Census Institute (INEC) Surveys (US$5.6 million), and
(e) Project Management and Administration (US$2.5 million, including
contingencies). The project would provide consultants, technical
assistance, training, vehicles, computers, and other equipment. The
Agricultural Policy Process component would strengthen sectoral policy
formulation and analysis; and improve planning, budgeting, monitoring,
and evaluation of sectoral public investments. The Agricultural
Information and Dissemination Service component would improve: (i)
information services on crops and livestock; (ii) information
available on market prices and news service of MAG; (iii) agro-
climatic impact evaluations; and (iv) MAG Computer Center services.
The Agricultural Sample Census component would support INEC's national
agricultural sample census; and strengthen INEC's capacity for
processing survey data. The INEC Surveys component would improve the
annual farm production survey; and the rural household income and
expenditure survey.
Project Implementation
5.    MAG would be responsible for overall project management, and
would share the implementation of the project with INEC. A small
project management unit shared by the two agencies would be created to
implement various activities of Project Management and Administration.
However, responsibilities for implementation of individual components
are clearly demarcated. The Agricultural Policy Process and the
Agricultural Information and Dissemination Service components would be
implemented by the various directorates of the Office of the Under-
Secretary for Sector Policy and Investment (SSPI) in MAG, and, the
Agricultural Sample Census and the INEC surveys components would be
implemented by INEC. Inside SSPI, the Policy Analysis and the
Internal And External Trade Directorates would be entrusted with the
task of strengthening sectoral policy formulation and analysis; the
Directorate of Planning, Investment, and Budgeting would lead the
improvement of public investment planning, budgeting, and monitoring
and evaluation process; and the Agricultural Information and
Dissemination Service component would be implemented by Agricultural
Information Directorate.
-2-



Procurement
6.    Procurement of goods, works, and the contracting of services
financed by the Bank would follow procurement procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Goods, including vehicles and equipment, would be procured
under Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures for all contracts
in excess of US$35,000, among manufacturers with established service
and maintenance facilities in the country. Contracts for goods valued
at less than US$35,000 would be purchased on the basis of price
quotations from at least three eligible suppliers. All contracts for
goods exceeding US$35,000 would require prior Bank approval. All
consultant contract awards will be subject to Bank approval.
Project Sustainability
7.    The modular design of the project is expected to retain the
flexibility for the project to adapt in a fast-changing environment.
Overall, development of MAG capacity to use the data and disseminate
it to the private sector is expected to develop a national
constituency for the provision of basic, reliable data on rural areas
and agriculture. The current Government has committed itself to
finance 100 percent of the expenditure on salaries for the project
which should help ensure that project activities are sustained once
the project is over. Moreover, the information systems component is
expected to develop its constituency among senior level officials at
MAG by providing the foundation for sectoral decision making and
inter-ministerial negotiations within the Government.
Environmental Aspects
8.    This information-related TA project has been assigned "B"
category by LATEN, because its link to indigenous people issues. To
assure an adequate coverage of indigenous issues in the activities of
the project, the project would finance the technical assistance of
experts in this field.
Participatory Approach
9.    The preparation effort used a "Data User's Requirement Study"
(DURS) both within the MAG and the private sector. The DURS followed
current corporate practices to elicit key decision makers' requirement
for information. In both public and private sectors, the challenge
was to help the participants translate their business understanding
into articulated information requirements. Direct interviews were
used rather than questionnaires because questionnaires tend to be
passed down by busy officials and entrepreneurs to staff assistants.
These interviews focussed upon Critical Success Factors for the
participants to identify existing priority information, enhancements
to existing information, and unmet requirements.
Program Objective Category
10.   By identifying the needs of the poor in rural areas in order to
better design targeted MAG policies and programs, the project fits
into the country's anti-poverty strategy.
- 3-



Project Benefits
11.   Through access to quality information by the private and public
sector in their decision making, policies can be better designed
leading to improved productivity of activities in Ecuador's rural
areas and hence to higher overall growth. Furthermore, improved
information would lead to better targeting of government's programs
thereby helping the rural poor and the indigenous people. Finally, in
the event of a shift in the terms of trade against agriculture, it
will be possible to design and implement policies that can impact
positively on those most affected thereby reducing political pressure
to introduce protection and hence undermine reform efforts.
Risks
12.   Ecuador's fiscal deficits could reduce financial support for
project activities leading to a reduction of capabilities in both MAG
and INEC. The risk of reduced public funding is addressed by a
modular project design that would retain considerable flexibility in
project implementation. Moreover, it should be noted that the
proposed project is largely built on a base of activities that have
been and are continuing to be carried out.
Staff Review Arrangements
13.   The Task Manager is Surajit Goswami (LA3NR); Division Chief
Nicholas Krafft (LA3NR); and Country Director Yoshiaki Abe (LA3DR).
Peer reviewers are Charles H. Antholt (EC1AG) and Ali Hashim (ITFIE).
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



