                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                            Report No: 34519

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (SCL-42790 PPFB-P2680 PPFB-P2681 SCL-42791)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 24.8 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

                                            FOR A

              AGRICULTURE CENSUS AND INFORMATION SYSTEM PROJECT




                                       December 19, 2005




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective November 2005)

                                    Currency Unit = American Dollars
                                          US$ 1.00 = US$ 1.00
                                          US$ 1.00 = 1.00

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1      December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFPS     Agricultural Farm Production Survey
ALCA     Free Trade Area of the Americas, FTAA (Acuerdo de Libre Comercio de las Américas)
APEC     Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum
ASC      Agricultural Sample Census
BNF      National Development Bank (Banco Nacional de Fomento)
BTOR     Back to Office Report
CAN      Andean Community (Comunidad Andina de Naciones)
CAN      National Agricultural Census (Censo Nacional Agropecuario)
CARICOM  Caribbean Community and Common Market
CAS      Country Assistance Stratey
CC       Consultative Councils
COMEXI   Foreign Trade and Investment Council (Consejo de Promoción de Exportaciones e
         Inversiones)
CORPEI   Export and Investment Promotion Corporation of Ecuador (Corporación de Promoción de
         Exportadores e Inversiones)
DINAREN  National Direction of Renewable Natural Resources (Dirección Nacional de Recursos
         Naturales Renovables)
ENAC     National Enterprise of Storage and Commercialization of Farm Products (Empresa
         Nacional de Almacenamiento y Comercialización de Productos Agropecuarios)
ESPAC    Survey of Annual Surface and Production of Cultivations (Encuesta de Superficie y
         Producción Anuales de Cultivos
FENAMAIZ National Federation of Corn Producers (Federación Nacional de Maiceros)
FMS      Financial Management Specialist
FTAA     Free Trade Agreement of the Americas
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOE      Government of Ecuador
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
ID       Institutional Development
IMF      International Monetary Fund
INAMHI   National Meteorology and Hydrology Institute (Instituto Nacional de Meteorología e
         Hidrología)
INCCA    National Institute for Rural Training (Instituto Nacional de Capacitación Campesina)
INEC     National Statistics and Census Institute (Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censo)
INIAP    National Institute for Agriculture and Livestock Research (Instituto Nacional de
         Investigaciones Agropecuarias)
MAG      Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganadería)
MERCOSUR Southern Cone Free Trade Agreement Zone (Mercado Común del Sur)
MICIP    Ministry of Commerce and, Industry, and Fisheries (Ministerio de Comercio Industria y
         Pesca)
MOF      Ministry of Finance

MTR     Mid Term Review
NA      Not available
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
OMC     World Trade Organization (Organización Mundial de Comercio)
ONUDI   United Nations Organization for the Industrial Development (Organización de Naciones
        Unidas para el Desarrollo Industrial)
PCD     Project Concept Document
PHRD    Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SESA    Ecuadorian Service for Agricultural Livestock Health (Servicio Ecuatoriano de Sanidad
        Agropecuaria)
SICA    Agricultural Census and Information System Technical Assistance Project (Sistema de
        Información y Censo Agropecuario)
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
TA      Technical Assistance
TL      Task Leader
TLC     Free Trade Agreement (Tratado de Libre Comercio)
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
USDA    United States Department of Agriculture
WTO     World Trade Organization



                                Vice President:        Pamela Cox
                             Country Director:         Marcelo M. Giugale
                               Sector Director:        John Redwood
                               Sector Manager:         Mark E. Cackler
                                 Sector Leader:        Maria D. Clark
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:             Matthew A. McMahon

                                          ECUADOR
                         Agriculture Census and Information System


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Implemetation Completion Report                   27

Map: ECUADOR IBRD 33399

Project ID: P007135                                                  Project Name: Agriculture Census and Information
                                                                     System
Team Leader: Matthew A. Mcmahon                                      TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 19, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Agriculture Census and Information System                L/C/TF Number: SCL-42790; PPFB-P2680;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P2681; SCL-42791
   Country/Department: ECUADOR                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting (P); Rural policies and
                            institutions (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/30/1993                                     Effective: 08/07/1998                08/07/1998
     Appraisal: 04/27/1995                                         MTR:
      Approval: 01/29/1998                                      Closing: 09/30/2002                 01/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTERIO DE AGRICULTURA Y GANADERIA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Marcelo M. Giugale                             Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:                 Mark E. Cackler                                Nicolas Krafft
Team Leader at ICR:             Matthew A. McMahon                             Surajit Goswami
ICR Primary Author:             Surajit Goswami with input from
                                Matthew A. McMahon; Teresa
                                M. Roncal; and Maribel M.
                                Cherres


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Agricultural Census and Information System Technical Assistance Project (SICA) consisting of two phases
(the original and supplement) was aimed to improve availability, consistency, validity, and timeliness of
agricultural information to facilitate the decision-making process in both the public and private sectors.
Information quality and accessibility was to be improved through: (i) the standardization of collection and
processing methodologies to allow comparability, cross-examination, and verification; (ii) an efficient and
user-friendly dissemination network; and (iii) production of demand driven analysis.

Reliable and up-to-date information was envisaged to provide a solid base for Government's policies by improving:
(i) policy analysis capacity; (ii) the formulation of sector strategies; (iii) program implementation through a better
planning, monitoring and evaluation system; and (iv) the estimation of behavioral relationships in the agricultural
sector. Inter-institutional coordination, particularly between the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) and the National
Statistics and Census Institute (INEC), was also an important project objective.

Timely and accurate agricultural sector information was expected to support the private sector by: (i) promoting
competitiveness; (ii) reducing bias generated by powerful groups; (iii) lowering transactions costs; and (iv)
improving resource allocation.

The estimated total cost at the initial appraisal was US$25.3 million, including US$5.3 million in government
financing. Due to exceptional circumstances beyond the Borrower's control (explained in Section 4. and 5. below),
which resulted in cost overruns, in 2001 when the project had completed data collection and digitalization as well
as having developed the proposed agricultural information system, the Borrower requested a supplemental loan of
US$4.8m for an extra two years which led to a total estimated cost of US$32.3 million. This supplemental loan was
approved in 2002. These extra resources were to finance analysis and dissemination of data, to facilitate access to
information for small producers, peasants, and indigenous farmers, to continue the work of, and strengthen the
Consultative Councils (CCs) and to carry out an additional Agricultural Production Survey. Essentially, the
supplement was aimed to support SICA's original objective of reducing information asymmetries (unequal access
to information depending on social level, geographical location, ethnic background, which among other factors
were considered as the causes of persistent poverty), and contribute to democratization of information.

These objectives of improving agricultural information quality and accessibility to improve sector policies and
strategies, as well as private sector performance continue to be relevant in Ecuador. They are consistent with the
new CAS (Report No. 25817-EC of May 1, 2003) which supports activities that will "increase opportunities and
broaden access to economic resources, and make the needed structural reforms socially sustainable by mitigating
the impacts on the poor". The agricultural sector continues to be important and, consequently, its productivity
issues and competitiveness remain at the heart of any growth induced economic recovery.



3.2 Revised Objective:

The original objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project design was to provide technical and financial support to two governmental institutions: MAG and
INEC. The original loan had five components while the supplementary loan focused primarily on two components.
First loan included the following five components:

A. Agricultural Policy Process (US$6.1 million, MAG, 18.9 percent of total cost).              The objective of this
component was to strengthen the capacity of MAG to appraise and evaluate the impact of sector policies and to
disseminate the results of these analyses. It had two sub-components: A1 ­ Sectoral and Trade Policy implemented
through SICA/MAG and Policy Undersecretary; and A2 ­ Sectoral Public Investment implemented through



                                                          - 2 -

SICA/MAG and Sector Investment/MAG.

The type of analyses and information expected to be included in A1 were: (i) market situation and outlook; (ii)
macroeconomic, including exchange rate policy, related to agriculture; (iii) sectoral, such as price and trade policy;
and (iv) sub-sector and product-specific policies related to market efficiency. A1 was to promote a dialogue
between the public and private sectors. A Data User's Requirements Study, undertaken during project preparation,
had indicated that the private sector needed, in addition to data, the interpretive analysis of the same. A1 was done
to provide the latter. In addition, dissemination of information was to be improved through the use of private
institutions, such as associations of producers, agricultural centers and commodity groups.

In relation to A1, A2 was quite modest having about one-fifth the size of A1 investment.                  This modest
sub-component was to: (i) increase the capacity of MAG and the MOF to effectively monitor and evaluate the
performance of MAG investments; (ii) link investment policy more closely to sector policies and priorities; (iii)
target policy and investments to vulnerable groups; and (iv) make greater use of NGOs in agricultural and rural
services.

B. Agricultural Information and Dissemination Services (US$4.6 million, MAG, 14.2 percent of total costs).
This component was to improve: (i) information services on crops and livestock (agricultural statistics); (ii) market
prices and news services of MAG; (iii) agro-climatic impact evaluations; and (iv) MAG Computer Center services.
It had four sub-components in line with the above objectives of the component.

The Agr. Statistics subcomponent (B1) was to support in the design, implementation, and maintenance of the
sector database, which was to be composed largely from secondary sources: macro data from the Central Bank,
agricultural production data from INEC, and price and weather data from other divisions of the MAG etc. The
Market prices and news subcomponent (B2) was to provide, among other things, daily prices for a select group of
important agricultural products. The Agro-climatic impact evaluations subcomponent (B3) was to improve the
collection, processing, analysis, and dissemination of weather data, principally precipitation and temperature, from
the National Meteorology and Hydrology Institute (INAMHI), as well as to determine impact of weather anomalies
on crop production. The MAG Computer Center services subcomponent (B4) was to provide TA, training, data
processing, systems development and maintenance and repair services.

C. Agricultural Sample Census (ASC) (US$13.9 million, INEC, 43.1 percent of total costs). This component
was to support the design, preparation, and execution of the national Agricultural Sample Census (ASC) and
strengthen INEC's data processing capacity. No agricultural census had been undertaken in Ecuador since 1974,
and the bulk of the effort of this component was to be directed through the ASC subcomponent (C1) to collect data
on: (i) production systems; (ii) on-farm use resource use (land, labor, capital, technology, and infrastructure); (iii)
land tenancy; and (iv) socio-economic characteristics of the farm household. The other subcomponent on data
processing (C2) was intended for processing the information collected from the ASC.

D. Agricultural Farm Production Survey (AFPS) (US$2.4 million, INEC, 7.4 percent of total costs). This
component was to improve the methodology of the AFPS given the improved knowledge on the structure of the
sector obtained through the ASC. In statistical terms, the ASC provides knowledge on the "population", whereas
this component was to improve the sampling process for the AFPS. Based on the improvement in methodology,
the component was to undertake subsequent regular AFPSs and farm expenditure surveys.

E. Project Management (US$5.3 million, MAG/INEC, 16.4 percent of total costs). This component was to
establish the management structure for the direction, coordination, planning, financial administration, and
monitoring and evaluation of the project. A Technical Secretariat, headed by a Director, International Technical
Advisor, and a small managerial and financial staff were to be responsible for overall project management and
guidance, including direct management and administration of the activities in MAG. A small implementation unit
in INEC was to administer implementation of the INEC components, under the direction of the Director of
Economic Studies / Director of Census.




                                                         - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:

Component:                                                               Cost:

1. Agricultural Policy Process                                          US$ 6.1 million
2. Agr. Information and Dissemination Services                          US$ 4.6 million
3. Agricultural Sample Census                                           US$13.9 million
4. Agricultural Farm Production Survey                                  US$ 2.4 million
5. Project Management                                                   US$ 5.3 million

          Total                                                         US$32.3 million


The objectives and description of the supplementary loan is described below. While the original components were
left unchanged the supplementary loan focused mainly on two components: agricultural sample census and
agricultural farm production survey.

The overall project design was appropriate to deliver the main project objectives of improving agricultural
information quality and accessibility. A well executed census (Component C) was to standardize collection and
processing of information that relied on comparability, cross-examination, and verification. Based on the census
and other information available from other sources, Component B was to create an efficient and user-friendly
dissemination network. By lowering the cost of collection of information, the design could be expected to reduce
information asymmetries (unequal access to information depending on social level, geographical location, ethnic
background, which among other factors were considered as the causes of persistent poverty), and contribute to
democratization of information. Component D was to implement three to four farm production surveys to bring
production data up to date. The project design was also appropriate to deliver the subsidiary project objectives of
facilitating the decision-making process in both the public and private sectors. For the public sector, Component A
was to improve policy analysis capacity, formulation of sector strategies; and programs implementation. For the
private sector, Component A was to meet the demands for timely and accurate information which that sector
demanded to make it more competitive.

In terms of base costs, 50 percent of the effort went to support Component C building the foundation through a
well executed agricultural census. The direction of bulk of the effort towards the implementation of a good census
makes sense: Based on the experience of other countries, without quality data the rest of the effort is useless and
the project becomes very controversial. However, even with such a large proportion of the project towards the
census, the amount was only about 30 percent of what it would cost to carry out a full agricultural census in
Ecuador. To cut costs, the project by design, quite innovatively, chose to use a large sample census, instead of
undertaking a complete/full census. This design balanced sampling errors with non-sampling errors (which came
from collecting and processing the data in less than ideal environment).          Given the experience from other
developing countries in the region, this was the right design. In addition to the one time census effort, about seven
percent of the resources was to go towards updating agricultural production information through annual surveys.

The project design also put considerable focus (more than a quarter of the resources) on the use of the information,
because past experience in Ecuador showed that few used the surveys. The design allocated thirteen percent of the
effort for the creation of the efficient and user-friendly dissemination network which would, among other things,
address information asymmetry issues (Component B). Another 14 percent of the effort was to specifically
improve the use of the information. In terms of how the project was to make this change in the culture of
information use, the project design did not provide many details. The project design indicated the need to improve
the dialogue between the public and the private sector and sketched some of the activities that could be financed
under the component but there was considerable uncertainty about the process.            Given the lack of general
experience of how to go about making such a change in the use of information by a large number of users, along
with the need of coordination between two large institution (MAG and INEC), the project conservatively allocated
16 percent of the effort towards project management.




                                                         - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The ICR finds the project quality-at-entry satisfactory. Because of a PHRD grant for preparation and USAID
involvement in the agricultural information system in Ecuador prior to the project, many of the project
management issues had been well tested in a pilot environment. Therefore, for the above reasons, and because of
the surveys already available, a testing process was deemed not required under this project. The Ministry of
Agriculture (MAG) was experienced in dealing with donors and played an important role in project preparation.
Structure for overall coordination of project activities, financial management, loan disbursement, and procurement
management were all in place. A five-page project implementation schedule was available in the Technical
Annex. The preparation effort had also obtained considerable advice from capable external statistical authorities
about the approach to be followed during the census: a costly full census was ruled out and the project preparation
team opted for a census that used samples. Subsequently, during project implementation, the detailed design for
the census was developed by SICA and INEC, with help from the USDA, an institution which is possibly the best
equipped in the world to undertake an agricultural census.

However, the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) had rated this project quality-at-entry "marginal". In Section 2 of
this document we have entered this as "Satisfactory" since there isn't a rating for "marginal". It had found the
project deficient in the following areas: (i) lack of evidence behind the project's poverty alleviation classification;
(ii) lack of provision for survey testing, piloting and analysis in the implementation schedule; (iii) the absence of
monitorable benchmarks; and (iv) long processing time when the regional management hadn't set conditions for
continued engagement/disengagement.

In terms of QAG's specific comments the project did not meet the usual design goal of poverty alleviation projects.
Although the project did not include activities that alleviated poverty directly, it served to correct structural barriers
central to alleviating rural poverty. The project relied on sectoral growth prospects particularly in an environment
of open trade.     Peer reviewers and Bank management had repeatedly (four country directors and four task
managers between identification and Board) reviewed the project and found the project objectives consistent with
the priorities of the country, the Government's development strategy, and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS). The people who were familiar with the country knew how crucial agriculture was for poverty alleviation.
Unlike most countries in the region, about 30 percent of the population was still linked with agriculture. With
such a large population involved, and with many of them in deep poverty, the Government did not have an easy
solution. Agriculture Sector work and later the Ecuador Poverty report had identified a multi-pronged effort to
address poverty. These in-depth studies had recommended projects, such as the Indigenous Peoples Development
Project, to address poverty particularly in the Sierra using their social capital and direct intervention. The studies
had also indicated that no substantial poverty alleviation could be expected without sustained growth in non-oil
sectors, in particular, in agriculture.   The Agricultural Census and Information System TA Project and the
Agricultural Research Project were considered to address poverty by addressing the sectoral competitiveness and
growth.

In terms of lack of provision of testing etc. in the implementation schedule, the QAG again did not put the project
in the context of related activities. First, there were quite a few agricultural surveys (with much smaller sample
size) undertaken with USAID funding that had preceded this project. INEC had gained considerable experience in
all stages of surveys, from questionnaire design to analysis of data. More importantly, the project design envisaged
the participation of a very experienced institution such as the USDA in the census. USDA had undertaken and
continues to undertake agricultural censuses and surveys not only in the US but also in various Central and South
American countries.

QAG's comments on the project lacking monitorable benchmarks of timeliness, quality, and controls of
implementation are to some extent understandable. In terms of timeliness, the project had a five-page MS project
schedule in the Technical Annex which had broken down many of the activities. It was envisaged that some of the
tasks, such as the ones in the census, were going to be further amplified with the help of the technical assistance of
the experts hired for the job. On others, such as the policy process, the project was the first of its kind (see Lessons
Learned) in trying to create a community practicing information based policy making. QAG was also right in
commenting that the project took a long time to process partly due to various political developments in the country.


                                                          - 5 -

With regards to QAG's comments on the need for a detailed census design be available before the project was
implemented, the project preparation team would have had to hire an outside consulting firm, which would then
become ineligible for any downstream work. To get the best expertise, it made more sense to combine the
technical assistances (TA) required for design with that for implementation into one package. Both design and
implementation expertises on agricultural census are found in the same institutions, usually with agricultural
agencies/departments of developed countries. In all likelihood, the best provider of such TA, USDA, would not
have participated in the procurement of planning of the census because that would have made them ineligible for
implementation activities. If two institutions with different traditions were involved, one in design and one in
implementation, conceivably, SICA and the Bank would have faced great difficulties to resolve differences. It is
quite conceivable that such a process would have led to further redesign and increase in costs. At minimum, the
project would have been further delayed from getting approved.

The project preparation team anticipated these difficulties and followed a strategy of putting together an excellent
project management team and fiduciary safeguards but postponing detailed design of the census after approval of
the project ­ a strategy that led to a smooth delivery of the main task with excellent harmony between the various
institutions involved in the process. The project therefore, was ready to be implemented as designed and quality at
entry was satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Achievement of objective and outputs under the project is rated as Satisfactory.
The project has improved availability, consistency, validity, and timeliness of agricultural information to facilitate
the decision-making process in both the public and private sectors. Undertaken almost 30 years after the last
census, this agricultural census removed the uncertainties on the structure of production and improved the
information quality through standardization of information collection and information processing methodologies
that allowed superior comparability, cross-examination, and verification of data.

Accessibility to information was also greatly improved. An efficient and user-friendly dissemination network,
facilitated by the new technology of the Internet, has been established. SICA's website (www.sica.gov.ec) is the
most used website in Ecuador (with over 1.5 million monthly visits) and has been judged the best website in the
country two years in a row. In addition, the objective of the 2002 supplemental loan to facilitate analysis of the
census data and its dissemination reducing various information asymmetries contributing to democratization of
information was also achieved fully.

Overall, in terms of the outcome, SICA has brought a positive change in Ecuador's policy analysis capacity, and
formulation of sector strategies through commodity specific Consultative Councils (CC) (Consejos Consultivos or
Consejos for short). These CCs bring together both the public and private sector and are facilitated by SICA staff
specifically entrusted with the work. They use the concept of the commodity value chain (hence the Spanish term
cadena) to facilitate the dialogue. These CCs were central to the success of the project and its sustainability. They
have been critical in developing sectoral policies, reducing transaction costs along productive chains, improving
access to markets, and reducing tariffs, etc. The analysis and the resulting workshop-type dialogues of CCs are
now held regularly for the 15 or so most important agricultural commodities, such as bananas, coffee, cocoa,
African oil palm, shrimps, flowers, rice, milk etc. thereby achieving consensus on how the Government and the
private sector can make the sector more competitive. These Councils were complemented by the activities of a
parallel Bank financed project on agricultural research.

The most important sectoral performance in this era of open economy is perhaps the fact that Ecuador has
maintained its sectoral reforms and has not reinstated protection and thereby leading to trade agreement
discussions, e.g. in the Andean zone and MERCOSUR group. However, the project did not, as planned in the
SAR, improve public program implementation through improvement of planning and/or monitoring and




                                                        - 6 -

evaluation of public programs.

4.2 Outputs by components:

A. Agricultural Policy Process
This component is rated as Satisfactory
The project has developed the capacity within MAG to analyze: (i) market situation and outlook; (ii)
macroeconomic policies, including exchange rate policy, related to agriculture; (iii) sectoral policies, such as price
and trade policy; and (iv) sub-sector and product-specific policies related to market efficiency. This capacity was
generally missing in the country before the project, although some analysis of this level of sophistication was
undertaken by external experts from time to time for a few products. MAG now has specific experts who
systematically undertake these activities for about 15 of the above mentioned products (In addition there are some
working groups on 3 products and pre-consejos on 4 products).

This component developed various activities around the commodity specific CCs and international negotiations.
About 65 MAG staff were trained to undertake the activities of CCs.              They were trained in value-chain
methodology to analyze and develop the commodity value chains, and manage the "agricultural community"
within the chain. For example, for coffee, the value chain includes coffee producers, traders, and processors, and
the MAG specialists facilitate the analysis and dialogue to improve the domestic and international competitiveness
of the chain. Similarly, about 20 MAG staffs have been trained on various issues of globalization and international
negotiations.

Outside the MAG, 36 workshops were undertaken to bring the value-chain concepts to hundreds of key private
sector participants for the various commodities. On international negotiations, six workshops were undertaken to
train the private sector participants. These workshops were in addition to more than 85 meetings on CCs, and 140
meetings on international negotiations undertaken to create very powerful dialogues within the sector. The CCs
have led to sub-sector agreements on sectoral investments and policies. Overall, the apex body of the CCs (
Asamblea de Consejos), now meets annually and this has led to three sectoral policy proposals, seventeen studies,
and sub-sectoral coordination agreements on rice, maize, soya, milk, cocoa, and coffee. The component has
successfully led to formal coordination of activities between the private and the public sector and within the various
parts of the private sector (industry/producers). MAG now has trained formal coordinators in each of the CC.

The sectoral organization and activities for international negotiations complements those for the CCs. In general,
the activities have led to advising the MAG authorities on trade policies and negotiating positions for
MERCOSUR, WTO, FTAA, and Comunidad Andina (Andean Community). It has led to opening of the trade
through reduction in tariffs in partner countries. In addition, the component helps to monitor the agreements, as
well as identifying over ten additional products with export potential.

The component has not led to substantial increase in the capacity of MAG and the MOF to effectively monitor and
evaluate the performance of MAG investments. Neither has it made greater use of NGOs in agricultural and rural
services. Instead, the component has stressed the linking of private and public investments to sector policies and
priorities, and has focused on improving competitiveness and productivity of various vulnerable groups in the
value-chain.

B. Agricultural Information and Dissemination Services
This component is rated as Satisfactory
This component improved: (i) information services on crops and livestock (agricultural statistics); (ii) market
prices and news services of MAG; (iii) agro-climatic impact evaluations; and (iv) MAG Computer Center services.


The component flourished in the new environment that permitted dissemination of data through the internet. The
success of the component came from establishing "communities of use" of data with more than 5,000 subscribed
and regular users of the data. The component essentially created de novo a culture of analysis and sectoral data use



                                                         - 7 -

by creating the dialogue within the various Consejos. The statistics provided led to the formulation of policies in
the CCs. The component connected the various Chambers (Camaras) and producer associations (Gremios) and
created a network of 250 institutional users of data. Within the institutions, the component trained key private
sector participants on how to get information from the SICA website and navigate the internet in general. The
internet based dissemination effort was complemented by weekly radio transmissions, in Spanish and Quechua,
from 80 stations with coverage of 800,000 small producers.

The component supports the maintenance of various sectoral databases, composed largely from secondary sources:
macro data from the Central Bank, agricultural production data from INEC, and price and weather data from other
divisions of the MAG etc. The market prices and news provided, among other things, daily prices for a select
group of important agricultural products.         The Agro-climatic impact evaluations improved the collection,
processing, analysis, and dissemination of weather data, principally precipitation and temperature, from the
National Meteorology and Hydrology Institute (INAMHI). Internet related training, data processing, systems
development, provision of equipment and software, and maintenance and repair services were also provided to the
MAG computer center.

C. Agricultural Sample Census
This component is rated as Satisfactory
This component designed, prepared, and executed an exceptional national agricultural sample census that became
the basis of the information revolution in the sector. At the national, regional, and cantonal level, the component
collected data on: (i) production systems; (ii) on-farm use resource use (land, labor, capital, technology, and
infrastructure); (iii) land tenancy; and (iv) socio-economic characteristics of the farm household. These data were
subsequently processed for a multi-volume publication which was distributed to 13,000 relevant users. The
component also produced 1,000 CDs for sophisticated users and undertook 10 workshops for data dissemination
purposes. The extraordinary quality of the data collected has provided the credibility behind the other activities,
such as policy analysis, of the project.

D. Agricultural Farm Production Survey (AFPS)
This component is rated as marginally Satisfactory
The component was first used to estimate the damage from the El Niño crisis. It thereafter funded selected surveys
including the Sample Census. Since that period, two more farm production surveys have been conducted. The
component has yet to fully develop the regular Farm Production Survey since it perennially suffers from lack of
counterpart funding. Instead, the surveys continued to be undertaken in a somewhat ad-hoc fashion.

E. Project Management
This component is rated as Satisfactory
This component established the management structure for the direction, coordination, planning, financial
administration, and monitoring and evaluation of the project. A Technical Secretariat, headed by a Director,
International Technical Advisor, and a small managerial and financial staff was created for overall project
management and guidance, including direct management and administration of the activities in MAG. Similarly,
a small implementation unit in INEC was created to administer implementation of the INEC components, under
the direction of the Director of Economic Studies/Director of Census. The costs for delivering the project in an
environment of great executive uncertainty (with 21 MAG undersecretaries in charge of the project during its
implementation) have been high: almost a quarter of the project costs have gone into project management. But it is
important to note that this high cost in this component included financing of consultants who played a central role
in the subsequent free trade agreement discussions and negotiations.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

In line with the SAR, a detailed economic analysis has not been attempted.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

n/a


                                                         - 8 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The Institutional Development (ID) impact was substantial because: (a) it created a platform for policy
continuation through the CCs, which has helped cushion the effects of the chronic instability of the MAG; (b) it
has institutionalized a public-private partnership model through the CCs that has created a constituency for
information that has helped the sustainability of the project and obligated MAG to respond to this demand. At
MAG, the project was instrumental in developing the systematic sectoral participatory process ­ the dialogues for
the various commodities. This mechanism is so effective that sectoral policy formulation and competitiveness has
not suffered in spite of MAG having 21 Policy Under-Secretaries during the last six years. The policy formulation
has just moved out of the MAG to these cadenas, where the there is strong private sector participation. Without
the information dissemination and facilitation by SICA, such policy formulation would not have taken place.

The institutional development impact on INEC was also substantial but along more traditional lines. As a result
they are capable of conducting the Farm Surveys for key products on a regular basis.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The main factor outside the control of the government was the 1998 El Niño, one of the worst in the past fifty
years, which led to heavy rain and flooding in the Costa. The rain and flooding had caused considerable damage
to agriculture in terms of production as well as marketing (because of destruction of roads). Early project
implementation was delayed and some of the funds for the Agricultural Farm Production Survey component were
used to estimate the damage from the El Niño. This was a good use of resources given the circumstances and was
in agreement with the Bank's disaster relief strategy.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Ecuador faced many economic and political problems throughout the implementation period. In general, the
economic problems made availability of counterpart funds scarce, and the political problems made the public sector
very weak particularly in terms of providing leadership. For example, an outstanding number of undersecretaries
in the MAG, 21 in total, were in charge of this project during the implementation period.

The economic problems also made pursuing progressive policies in the economy and in the sector very
challenging. Being at the heart of sector policymaking, the project suffered particularly in the beginning when the
project benefits had not been demonstrated yet, and the project did not enjoy universal support. For example, the
combination of external shocks in 1997-99 (the El Niño weather phenomenon, the sharp drop in world oil prices,
and a turbulent international financial situation) resulted in a sharp contraction of real GDP, rising unemployment,
accelerating inflation, a large fiscal deficit and mounting public sector payments arrears, and a banking system
deep in crisis. This resulted in a fire-fighting approach within the government, and any task with longer term
objectives was curtailed, resulting in project implementation delays during this period.

In contrast, after January 2000 when a new government came to power, and dollarization of the currency and an
IMF structural-adjustment program ensued, the pace of project implementation picked up in this environment of
progressive macroeconomic policies. In late 2000 and in 2001 the financial situation stabilized, economic activity
picked up, and unemployment fell. During this period, much of the crucial activities of the Agricultural Census
(Component 3) were undertaken. To support the implementation progress, supplemental financing was approved
by the Bank and the closing date extended by two years to September 30, 2004.

By end-2002, the central government was again facing domestic and external payments arrears, the treasury was
running out of cash with few options to obtain new financing, and economic activity was slowing. A new
government was elected in 2002.




                                                          - 9 -

What is most surprising is that by this time, project activities suffered minimally from a change in administration.
The implementation team, based on the goodwill and processes it had built up within the sector, was able to
continue with the progressive agricultural policy agenda even when the public institutions weakened. While the
rest of the economy suffered from public finance rigidities limiting the government's capacity to correct existing
imbalances, agricultural policymaking particularly those related to trade and competitiveness actually flourished.
Institutional weaknesses in the government did not restrict the country's ability to respond in a timely manner and
efficiently, for example, in agricultural trade negotiations or in domestic coordination of activities throughout the
value chain of various commodities.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The key to the project's success possibly lays in the continuity within the implementation agency (SICA) and its
superior performance. Even during project preparation, SICA performed as a team. It had developed as a
successor of USAID financed activities and had developed a culture of achievement. The top management team
worked well together and the Bank preparation team was successful in supporting their efforts. SICA recruited
well even where it was not easy to find well-trained professionals in economic policy analysis. It also took the time
to create the processes within the private sectors (regular meetings, web based information dissemination) that
would support the strategy. The Census was to provide the data and the cadenas were to utilize the data and
coordinate their activities for each commodity. Training was at the heart of all activities. At the execution stage,
the success of the SICA team was even extraordinary particularly viewed in the context of all the economic and
political challenges indicated in the section 5.2 above. It faced the "reality" of Ecuador and slowly pursued a
vision where private individuals and institutions played a much bigger role in analyzing problems, coordinating
activities, and financing initiatives within the sector.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal total project cost (with supplemental financing) for about six years was estimated at US$32.3 million.
This was to be financed by US$24.8 million of IBRD loan, US$6.3 million from GOE, and US$1.2 million from
the private sector. The actual project cost for just over six years is US$26.37 million, of which US$24.76 million
was from proceeds of IBRD loan and US$1.61 million from GOE (see Annex 2).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of the project is rated likely. Although not all activities are expected to thrive after the project
closes, the key activities supported by the project have generated enough momentum and are expected to continue -
some with the support of the government but others with the support of the private sector. For example, within the
government, Agricultural Policy Process (Component A) has been firmly established using the Consejo
Consultivo mechanism. SICA has elaborated the general rules of the Consejos, articulating quite clearly the nature
of the consultations, facilitation of dialogue, conflict resolution mechanisms, consensus building, effective
measures related to trade and international negotiations, policy formulation mechanisms, and logistical support
required for implementation and follow-up of policies. A considerable training effort was implemented to establish
a cadre of professionals within the MAG to implement the above processes as well as leading discussions for
different commodities using the value-chain methodology. They are supported by adequate hardware and software
acquired during implementation. A self sustaining community has been formed within the MAG which can
quickly train new professionals. The public expenditure required to maintain the activities are quite limited and
the MAG, even in these times of severe budget constraint, has budgeted for the activities.

Other important activities that will enjoy government support include: (i) statistical and web related activities
implemented within the Agricultural Information and Dissemination Services (Component B); and (ii) regular
Agricultural Farm Production Surveys (Component D). The MAG coordinators mentioned in the last paragraph
have been trained on how to maintain the web activities for their respective commodities. Financing of the new
hardware will possibly become an issue in the medium-term, and will possibly require donor-financing. Similarly,



                                                         - 10 -

within six years there will be the need for donor-financing of another Agricultural Sample Census (Component C),
although much of the knowledge generated in terms of training methodology, maps, lists and samples are currently
being utilized by INEC for various surveys.

The private sector is expected to sustain: (i) international negotiation activities; and (ii) network of radio
transmitters and the internet network (by the Cámaras de Agricultura).           Activities related to promotion of
investments in non-traditional commodities (agro-negocios) are not expected to be sustained after the project is
closed.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The Agricultural Policy Process has been incorporated within the MAG Policy/Strategy Development
Under-Secretariat, and directly within the Office of the Minister, except for the activities related to monitoring of
investments which have been placed under the MAG Planning Directorate. MAG Directorate of Statistics has
absorbed many of the activities related to compilation of various governmental statistics related to the Agricultural
Information and Dissemination Services component. MAG Directorate of Information Technology has been
entrusted with the systems administration of the Web, while the commodity coordinators within the MAG
Policy/Strategy Development Under-Secretariat have taken up the maintenance of the content. INEC will continue
with the regular Agricultural Farm Production Surveys (Component D), and will be the lead agency to execute
another Agricultural Sample Census (Component C) in about six years, possibly with donor support.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project is rated satisfactory. The
project was consistent with the priorities of GOE and the Bank's CAS. The preparation effort learned well from
the experiences of past activities by the USAID and a PHRD grant with similar objectives. It also gained from
having team members well versed with Ecuador's challenges both economic and administrative. The main
weakness in the Bank's preparation effort was the extended length of time required.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project is rated satisfactory. It maintained regular
dialogue with the authorities particularly when the administrative environment within GOE and MAG changed so
rapidly. It understood the value of having continuity within the implementing agency. Most importantly, when
the project had just demonstrated early success in the form of carrying out a very good agricultural census, the
supervision team ensured project success by proposing supplemental finance and extension of closing dates.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. The authorities provided competent and
experienced staff that could build relationships with donors and participate effectively in project appraisal.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

GOE and MAG implementation performance is rated satisfactory. Once it had started to show results, the
initiative was supported even during periods of economic uncertainty because the authorities took the sectoral view



                                                       - 11 -

properly into consideration. Unfortunately, in terms of budgetary support of regular surveys (Component D), the
situation has not improved substantially.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

SICA and INEC implementation performance is rated highly satisfactory. They exhibited a strong sense of
commitment to the project which was perhaps exemplified by the dedicated Project Director of SICA. In addition,
the technical staff at various levels of these two agencies has been most forthcoming in participating in training
activities.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Major lessons learned from the project are:

(i) Institutional Development (ID) involving new practices, such as information-based policymaking requires
cultivation. These activities cannot be developed in the same way that traditional organizational structures are
developed. The process is much more organic, and evolutionary. There are certain important elements and
principles (For a good discussion of the process, see Etienne Wenger et al., Cultivating Communities of Practice,
Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 2002), but they should not be blue-printed or dictated. Important elements
include identification of common ground. In this case, the use of information and coordination of policymaking for
competitiveness and the use of the value-chains and clusters framework were important. Another element is the
process of organizing and nurturing of the community that is being cultivated. In this case strengthening the
Consejos Consultivos. The third element, development of sustained practice, requires activities that go beyond
mere interest to changing behavior.       In this case, building consensus based on dialogues using common
information (and sometimes common analysis). Although such ID processes are becoming increasingly more
common in the corporate world, they are still rare in the public sector. However when used effectively as they were
in this project, they can lead to important institutional developments which contribute to increasing the
competitiveness of the sector.

(ii) For the above ID, where blue printing is not desirable, development of the core team is the most important
aspect behind the success of a project. The core team must balance administrative/political capabilities with
technical capabilities, possibly to be found in different persons. Recruitment of different members is most crucial
and the Director of the core team must have demonstrated ability to recruit excellent staff. The secret for the Bank
Task Manager is to continuously nurture mutual respect and teamwork within the core group.

(iii) Going beyond the core team, developing capacity requires hands-on training of Ministerial staff.          The
technical side of the core team demonstrates and holds hands of the next generation and may have to do it more
than once as some staff will invariably be assigned away from the project to address other priorities of the
government or find better opportunities in the private sector. Repeated training in sectoral analysis, data use, and
web content maintenance was a hallmark of this project.

(iv) For many tasks training would not be enough. In general, some Technical Assistance cannot be expected to be
developed without a certain critical mass of activities. Specialized activities, such as an Agricultural Census,
which take place every ten years or so for a small country require inputs from abroad if we are to ensure acceptable
quality. The involvement of the USDA along with an excellent technical group within the core team led to
successful implementation of the Census along all aspects of the TA - quality, cost, and time.

(v) Some design issues have to be addressed beyond the project level. Sectoral issues may be addressed using a set
of projects to be implemented more or less in parallel. This requires good sector work and the availability of
capable staff to prepare the projects. For example, in Ecuador, following a sector work in Agriculture, this project



                                                        - 12 -

was developed in parallel with two others ­ one for Agricultural Research, and another for Indigenous Peoples
Development. While this and the research project addressed rural poverty issues from the growth perspective
(particularly in the Costa Region where agriculture is very important), the Indigenous Peoples Development
focused more on direct interventions in the other two regions of the country, the Sierra and the Oriente. Project
evaluations, in general, fail to incorporate the sectoral perspective.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See also Annex 8 for the Borrower's Input to the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                          - 13 -

- 14 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
               Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Standardization of collection and processing None                           Done ­ through the Agricultural Sample
methodologies to allow comparability,                                       Census and follow-up processes.
cross-examination, and verification.
Efficient and user-friendly dissemination                                   Done ­ mainly through the web. Sica.gov.ec
network.                                                                    is the most used website in Ecuador with
                                                                            over 1.5 million monthly visits. It has been
                                                                            judged the best website in the country two
                                                                            years in a row.
Provision of demand driven analysis.                                        As and when required, for example, for trade
                                                                            negotiations. See also output of Component
                                                                            A.

Component B: Agricultural Information and                                   Established data-users communities with
Dissemination                                                               more than 5,000 subscribed and regular
Services                                                                    users of the data ­ helped the dialogue within
                                                                            the various Consejos, and formulation of
                                                                            policies in the Consejos.
Component A: Agricultural Policy Process                                    MAG now has experts for 15 commodities.
                                                                            About 65 MAG staff were trained in
                                                                            value-chain methodology to manage various
                                                                            commodity Consejo Consultivos.
                                                                            About 20 staff trained on international
                                                                            negotiations.
Workshops undertaken to bring the                                           35
value-chain concepts to hundreds of key
private sector participants for the various
commodities.
Workshops undertaken to train the private                                   6
sector participants on international
negotiations.
Meetings on international negotiations                                      140 Activities led to advising MAG authorities
                                                                            on MERCOSUR, WTO, FTAA and Andean
                                                                            Community negotiations.
Component B: Agricultural Information and                                   Established data-users communities with
Dissemination                                                               more than 5,000 subscribed and regular
Services                                                                    users of the data ­ helped the dialogue within
                                                                            the various Consejos, and formulation of
                                                                            policies in the Consejos.
Development of Agrored                                                      Done ­ developed a connected network of
                                                                            250 institutional users of data in the various
                                                                            Chambers of Commerce (Cámaras) and
                                                                            producer associations (Gremios).
Training                                                                    Trained key private sector participants on
                                                                            how to get information from the SICA website
                                                                            and navigate the internet in general.
Dissemination to the poor and non-Spanish                                   Internet based dissemination effort
speaking people                                                             complemented by weekly radio
                                                                            transmissions, in Spanish and Quechua,
                                                                            from 80 stations with coverage of 800,000
                                                                            small producers.
Maintenance of Quality                                                      Maintains various sectoral databases,
                                                                            composed largely from secondary sources:
                                                                            macro data from the Central Bank,
                                                                            agricultural production data from INEC, price
                                                                            and weather data from other divisions of the
                                                                            MAG etc.
Annual surveys that would help policy making                                Two more farm production surveys have
                                                                            been conducted but have not been effectively
                                                                            tied into the policy-making efforts within the
                                                                            Consejos or international negotiations. For
                                                                            some commodities, private surveys (using




                                                         - 16 -

                                                                            structural knowledge from the census)
                                                                            appear to have replaced these surveys.


Output Indicators:
                                                                       1
               Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Component A: Agricultural Policy Process     None                           Developed the capacity within MAG to
                                                                            analyze: (i) market situation and outlook; (ii)
                                                                            macroeconomic policies, including exchange
                                                                            rate policy, related to agriculture; (iii) sectoral
                                                                            policies, such as price and trade policies; and
                                                                            (iv) sub-sector and product specific policies
                                                                            related to market efficiency.
                                                                            MAG now has experts for 15 commodities.
                                                                            About 65 MAG staff were trained in
                                                                            value-chain methodology to manage various
                                                                            commodity Consejo Consultivos.
                                                                            About 20 staff trained on international
                                                                            negotiations.
Timeliness of market prices and news                                        Among other things, provides daily prices for
                                                                            a select group of important agricultural
                                                                            products.
Provision of information from other agencies:                               Agro-climatic impact evaluations improved
Agro-climatic information                                                   the collection, processing, analysis, and
                                                                            dissemination of weather data, principally
                                                                            precipitation and temperature, from the
                                                                            National Meteorology and Hydrology Institute
                                                                            (INAMHI).
Improvement of the MAG computer center                                      MAG computer center improved with internet
                                                                            related training, data processing, systems
                                                                            development, provision of equipment and
                                                                            software, and maintenance and repair
                                                                            services.
Superior quality and coverage at low cost                                   Filled up the structural knowledge gap from
                                                                            not having an agricultural census since 1974.
                                                                            International quality of data at a low cost
                                                                            because of design innovation (sample
                                                                            census using lists and sampling instead of
                                                                            counting everything). The design also led to
                                                                            rapid processing of 200 million data items
                                                                            and the publication of the results at the
                                                                            national, regional, provincial, and district level
                                                                            within two years from the beginning.
Coverage of important issues                                                Provided data on land ownership changes;
                                                                            commodities under cultivation; infrastructure
                                                                            coverage; availability of various services such
                                                                            as agricultural technical assistance, and
                                                                            credit; quality of workforce; level of education;
                                                                            and quality of community organization.
Quality of dissemination                                                    Results disseminated at all levels (national
                                                                            through district) aggressively through
                                                                            workshops, print material, radio, CD, and
                                                                            web pages. Elaborated the raw data into
                                                                            various statistics and social indicators with an
                                                                            emphasis on the small farmers.
Institution development - Training                                          Training of INEC professionals on various
                                                                            aspects of agricultural census and statistics.
Component D: Agricultural Farm Production                                   Even before the census was undertaken, the
Survey (AFPS)                                                               component was used to estimate the damage
                                                                            from the El Niño.
Component E: Project Management                                             Technical Secretariat, headed by a Director,
                                                                            an International Technical Advisor, and a




                                                         - 17 -

                             small managerial and financial staff created
                             for overall project management and guidance,
                             including direct management and
                             administration of the activities in MAG.

                             Similarly, a small implementation unit in INEC
                             created to administer implementation of the
                             INEC components, under the direction of the
                             Director of Economic Studies/Director of
                             Census led to successful implementation
                             (including addressing fiduciary issues) under
                             particularly difficult political uncertainties.

1End of project




                   - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Agricultural Policy Process                                  6.10             2.95           40.64
Ag. Info. and Dissemination Services                         4.60             3.10           66.68
Agricultural Sample Census                                  13.90           13.50            97.04
Agricultural Farm Production Survey                          2.40             0.52           21.28
Project Management                                           5.30             6.25           117.6

Total Baseline Cost                                         32.30           26.32
                         Total Project Costs                32.30           26.32
                                        Front-end fee        0.05             0.05         100.00
                  Total Financing Required                  32.35           26.37


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.07          0.00         0.07
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.04)          (0.00)       (0.04)
2. Goods                           1.67             0.11         0.95          0.00         2.73
                                  (1.51)           (0.11)      (0.84)          (0.00)       (2.46)
3. Services                        0.00             5.70         4.35          0.00         10.05
                                  (0.00)           (4.81)      (4.25)          (0.00)       (9.06)
4.Consultants: TA and                               0.00         8.42          0.00         8.42
Training
                                    ()             (0.00)      (7.56)          (0.00)       (7.56)
5. Incremental Recurring           0.00             0.00         4.96          3.88         8.84
Costs                             (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.46)          (0.00)       (3.46)
6. PPF, Front-end fee and          0.00             0.00         2.21          0.00         2.21
Unallocated                       (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.19)          (0.00)       (2.19)
    Total                          1.67             5.81        20.96          3.88         32.32
                                  (1.51)           (4.92)      (18.34)         (0.00)      (24.77)



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            0.00         0.16           0.00        0.16
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.15)         (0.00)       (0.15)
2. Goods                           1.02            0.69         1.03           0.00        2.74
                                  (1.02)          (0.62)       (1.02)         (0.00)       (2.66)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00         9.47           0.00        9.47



                                                - 19 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (9.47)            (0.00)           (9.47)
   4.Consultants: TA and                   0.00               0.00              8.82             0.00              8.82
   Training
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (8.82)            (0.00)           (8.82)
   5. Incremental Recurring                0.00               0.00              4.08             0.43              4.51
   Costs                                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.00)            (0.00)           (3.00)
   6. PPF, Front-end fee and               0.00               0.00              0.67             0.00              0.67
   Unallocated                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.67)            (0.00)           (0.67)
       Total                               1.02               0.69             24.23             0.43             26.37
                                          (1.02)             (0.62)           (23.13)            (0.00)           (24.77)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Agricultural Policy Process    4.08         1.97         0.00        2.60         0.35       0.00       63.7      17.8      0.0
Ag. Info. and                  3.85         0.59         1.20        2.92         0.18       0.00       75.8      30.5      0.0
Dissemination Services
Agricultural Sample           10.91         2.15         0.00       13.46         0.06       0.00       123.4     2.8       0.0
Census
Agricultural Farm              1.74         0.67         0.00        0.52         0.49       0.00       29.9      73.1      0.0
Production Survey
Project Management             4.17         0.92         0.00        5.22         1.03       0.00       125.2    112.0      0.0
Front End Fee                  0.05         0.00         0.00        0.05         0.00       0.00       100.0     0.0       0.0
TOTAL:                        24.80         6.30         1.20       24.77         1.61       0.00       99.9      25.6      0.0




                                                          - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

n/a.




                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/30/1993                2    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             NATURAL RESOURCES
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              03/10/1995                3    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             NATURAL RESOURCES
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/28/1995                2    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             AGRICULTURALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/06/1995                5    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             AGRICULTURALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); NATURAL
                                             RESOURCES SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              08/05/1997                4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             AGRICULTURALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             NATURAL RESOURCES
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/17/1997                4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             AGRICULTURALIST (1);
                                             LAWYER (1); SR.
                                             AGRICULTURALIST (1)

 Supervision

              11/22/1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             POVERTY SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CENSUS MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1)
              06/04/1999                3    TASK MANAGER (1); AG.            S               S
                                             STATISTICS-CENSUS (1);
                                             POVERTY STATISTICS (1)
              06/04/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             CENSUS SPECIALIST (1)
              06/14/2000                3    TASK MANAGER (1); AG.            S               S
                                             SATATISTICS EXPERT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1)
              06/14/2000                2    SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);            S               S
                                             STATISTICIAN (1)
              07/06/2001                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PARTICIPATION SPECIALI (1)



                                              - 22 -

               11/14/2001              5   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                           FINANCIAL MANAG. SPEC.
                                           (1); SOCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                           SECTOR LEADER (1);
                                           STATISTICIAN (1)
               02/05/2002              3   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                           PROJECT MNGT SPEC. (1);
                                           STATISTICIAN (1)
               09/27/2002              3   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                           PROJECT SPECIALIST (1);
                                           FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
               05/23/2003              2   LEAD AGRICULTURIST/TTL             S    S
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT
                                           ANALYST (1)
               11/19/2003              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           PROJECT SPECIALIST (1);
                                           CONSULTANT ECONOMIST
                                           (1); FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT (1)

 ICR
               06/18/2004             5     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC
                                            (1); CONSULTANT (1);
                                            SENIOR OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            43.8                         106.3
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 32.2                           90.9
  Supervision                          118.6                         282.3
  ICR                                  11.57                            61
  Total                              175.97                          540.5




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


World Bank CAS Report for Ecuador No. 25817-EC, May 2003.
World Bank Technical Annex Report No.T7212, December 1997.
Loan Agreement, Loan No.4279-EC, May 1998.
Project Operational Plans
World Bank Supervision Mission Project Status Reports of 2002 and 2004.
Aide Memoires, World Bank Documents
MAG/GOE. Borrower's ICR, SICA, November 2005




                                                   - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report

1. Diseño y trabajo de preparación

La estructura original del proyecto fue diseñada en correspondencia con los desafíos del entorno de la agricultura
ecuatoriana, relacionados con la necesidad de disponer de información y análisis confiables para la toma de
decisiones que contribuyan al fortalecimiento de la competitividad del sector, así como, para atender las demandas
de fortalecimiento de la capacidad institucional del MAG para la formulación de políticas.

A raíz de la concesión del préstamo suplementario y recogiendo la experiencia del Proyecto se mantuvieron los
componentes originales, con redefinición de sus actividades:

El Componente 1, quedó entonces como Proceso de Políticas y Consejos Consultivos, abarcando las actividades de
Consejos Consultivos como tal, Agronegocios y Asesoría a la Negociación Comercial.

El énfasis para el componente del Sistema de Información se centró en el mantenimiento de la página web del agro
y en la construcción de una base para la futura agrored (red por internet de los principales actores del agro
ecuatoriano).

En el caso del componente del CNA, se enfocó hacia actividades de divulgación del censo, con especial atención en
organizaciones de pequeños productores, para reducir las asimetrías de acceso a la información; mientras que la
ESPAC fue traspasada completamente al INEC.

El Proyecto SICA ha sido sistemáticamente evaluado en términos positivos por las Misiones del Banco, así como,
se desprende de las conclusiones de la Evaluación de Resultados e Impactos realizada en diciembre del 2002 y
septiembre del 2004, documentos que han servido de insumos para la elaboración del presente ICR.

El diseño del proyecto en la implementación demostró ser apropiado para la consecución de los objetivos
propuestos, tanto por la adecuada correspondencia externa frente a los desafíos y retos del sector agropecuario
ecuatoriano, en relación a las demandas de información, análisis, políticas, como por su coherencia interna
articulada en los cinco componentes originales, tres de los cuales (Servicio de Información, Censo y ESPAC)
sirvieron de base para el desarrollo de las actividades del Componente A. de Políticas, facilitando el proceso por el
componente de Administración y Coordinación del Proyecto.

Una virtud adicional del diseño fue su flexibilidad a nivel de actividades dentro de los componentes para poder
responder de manera eficiente a los cambios surgidos en un ambiente de conflictividad, inestabilidad y drásticas
modificaciones en el entorno económico del país, así como, a las demandas incrementadas y más precisas,
resultantes del propio impacto del proyecto sobre el sector.

2. Alcance de objetivos y productos en la implementación

La situación de la que partía el sector agropecuario, en lo que respecta a la información, antes de la
implementación del Proyecto SICA se caracterizaba por:
· Ausencia o déficit de información oportuna, actualizada y confiable para la toma de decisiones en el ámbito
público y privado.
· Inequitativo acceso a la información estratégica de mercados y otras variables relevantes para el nivel de los
pequeños productores.
· Escasa valoración y uso de la información, como herramienta de análisis y de decisiones competitivas.
· Énfasis en variables de oferta, costos y precios domésticos, como parte del juego del establecimiento de precios,
heredado de la política de fijación de precios oficiales.
· Minimización de la importancia, déficit absoluto y falta de acceso a la información de los mercados
internacionales.
· Alta conflictividad entre eslabones de las cadenas de valor en el agro, como resultado de mercados altamente



                                                         - 27 -

especulativos por estructuras monopsónicas y por falta de información y diálogo.

El Proyecto SICA, a través de sus componentes y actividades, ha contribuido a un vuelco sustancial en ese
escenario, llenando por un lado el vacío de información estructural mediante el III CNA, de variables de coyuntura
nacionales y de los mercados externos, gracias al Sistema de Información (y ESPAC) y la falta de análisis para
decisiones y políticas, por intermedio de los Consejos Consultivos, la asesoría comercial y la capacitación a
funcionarios del MAG.

En la actualidad, el sector agropecuario en Ecuador, cuenta de los datos del III Censo Nacional Agropecuario, con
variables estructurales con agregación nacional, así como, provincial y hasta cantonal, con desgloses y
publicaciones especiales para variables económicas y sociales, el mismo que se encuentra disponible en impresos,
archivos magnéticos e Internet; se han reactivado las encuestas anuales de superficie y producción de los
principales rubros permanentes y transitorios por parte del INEC.

El MAG se ha hecho cargo del mantenimiento y actualización del sistema de información construido con apoyo del
SICA, para las principales cadenas, incluidos los nuevos productos de agroexportación, así como, de las variables
macro y sectoriales de relevancia (oferta, mercados, precios y clima) a nivel nacional e internacional, con un acceso
libre y democrático a través de la web, una red de radios orientado a pequeños productores, eventos tipo talleres y
la información directa a los dirigentes en los Consejos.

Por otra parte, se han institucionalizado y quedan en pleno funcionamiento quince Consejos Consultivos en las
cadenas de mayor peso socio-económico, como mecanismo de diálogo y de concertación, basados en la información
y análisis del SICA, con una alta y representativa participación del sector privado, coordinados por el MAG.

Las mesas de diálogo establecidas en los consejos han contribuido a:
· bajar los niveles de conflictividad en el sector,
· reducir los costos de transacción a lo largo de las cadenas,
· fortalecer la competitividad de cadenas y clusters,
· incrementar los ingresos hacia el sector productor mediante acuerdos.

Se ha constituido un equipo especializado de analistas y negociadores, para afrontar los procesos de negociación
comercial internacional y se ha contribuido a la formación de sus pares en el sector privado, para facilitar la
apertura de mercados, con el consiguiente ahorro en el costo de los insumos y equipos para los productores y de las
materias primas para la agroindustria y el acceso a importantes mercados en el exterior para los exportadores.

Se ha logrado capacitar a un conjunto de funcionarios del MAG en la investigación y sistematización de
información para las cadenas de valor en el agro, para el procesamiento y análisis de la información, para la
asesoría a las autoridades y la facilitación del diálogo en los Consejos, para la toma de decisiones y formulación de
políticas, que se ha traducido en documentos originados en las Asambleas de Consejos, en calidad de propuestas
para políticas de estado; y en general, el Proyecto ha aportado y estimulado a un ambiente de valoración y uso
sistemático de la información, el análisis y la asesoría, en el nivel público y privado, así como, de privilegio al
diálogo por sobre la confrontación entre los actores de las cadenas.

A continuación se destacan, los principales resultados de los componentes y actividades del Proyecto SICA, en
relación con sus objetivos originales y los ejes transversales de evaluación, identificados en el período del préstamo
suplementario:

a. Proceso de políticas

El componente de Proceso de Políticas tuvo como actividades principales a los Consejos Consultivos,
Agronegocios, Asesoría Comercial y Monitoreo de la Inversión; las tres primeros se relacionaron con la
Subsecretaría de Políticas del MAG (en la actualidad Subsecretaría de Desarrollo Estratégico) y directamente con
el Despacho del Ministro, mientras que la última se relacionó con la Dirección de Planificación del MAG.




                                                         - 28 -

a.1 Consejos Consultivos

Los Consejos Consultivos surgen de la demanda del sector para reducir los costos de transacciones, como una
herramienta de manejo y resolución de conflictos, de coyuntura en primer término, de abordaje de problemas
estructurales en una segunda instancia, y de formulación de alternativas y políticas en un tercer momento.

La forma en la que el SICA apoyó el establecimiento, funcionamiento y desarrollo de los Consejos Consultivos,
como mesas de diálogo y concertación para fortalecer la competitividad de las cadenas y del sector, fue mediante:
conceptualización, coordinación, capacitación metodológica a los funcionarios del MAG a cargo de la coordinación
(25 y 40 en dos etapas), facilitación de información y diálogo, apoyo logístico para la implementación y
seguimiento, sistematización de resultados, acompañamiento al proceso de formulación de políticas.

El Proyecto SICA logró la aceptación del MAG para que en la estructura básica de los consejos se contemplara la
participación de productores, comercializadores (internos o de exportación) y agroindustrias, bajo la presidencia
del MAG, con la participación de otros actores como proveedores, otras dependencias del MAG como SESA o
INIAP, con la coordinación técnica del SICA, dando soporte a los funcionarios del MAG, que en la actualidad
coordinan a plenitud los consejos.

A la fecha de cierre del Proyecto SICA se encuentran institucionalizados mediante Acuerdos Ministeriales y en
pleno funcionamiento, quince Consejos Consultivos en las cadenas de: Banano (interministerial MAG-MICIP),
Cacao, Arroz-Piladoras, Maíz Amarillo-Avicultura, Leche-Lácteos, Carne-Cárnicos, Caña-Azúcar, Papa,
Hortalizas, Frutales, Abacá-Fibras Naturales, Flores, Bambú, Semillas, Insumos; a los que se suman la cadena de
Café con el Consejo Cafetalero (creado previamente mediante ley), el Comité Técnico de la Soya (adscrito al
Consejo del Maíz), el Sub Consejo de la Porcicultura (adscrito al Consejo de la Carne) y el Comité de Orgánicos
(establecido a través de un Decreto Presidencial).

De reciente creación son los Consejos de la Palma Aceitera, Plátano y Tagua y se encuentran como Áreas de
Trabajo o Pre-Consejos, las cadenas de: Fréjol, Yuca, Tabaco, Maracuyá. En conjunto, bajo la estructura de
Consejos Consultivos se encuentran las principales cadenas de valor del agro ecuatoriano, las de mayor peso
económico-social y las de mayor proyección de futuro.

Los principales resultados de los Consejos Consultivos se concentran en la atenuación de los conflictos mediante la
institucionalización de las mesas de diálogo, la concertación en mecanismos de arreglo de diferencias comerciales
entre productores y agroindustrias, el logro y perfeccionamiento de acuerdos de comercialización integrales, la
obtención de posiciones conjuntas de negociación con enfoque de cadena, el fortalecimiento de los gremios
mediante la capacitación a sus dirigentes, la difusión de la información del SICA a nivel de gremios de productores
y agroindustrias.

Una segunda gran vertiente de resultados ha sido la elaboración de análisis y planes estratégicos participativos por
cadenas, y la formulación de propuestas de políticas, que en conjunto han impactado positivamente en la reducción
de los costos de transacción y en un incremento de los ingresos hacia el sector productor primario, mediante el
equilibrio consensuado entre los precios domésticos y los costos de oportunidad en el mercado internacional,
mediado todo por la disponibilidad de información y análisis, relevante, actualizado y altamente fiable,
proporcionado por el SICA

A continuación se presenta una síntesis de los principales resultados y logros de la gestión de los Consejos
Consultivos del agro:

Comercialización Interna: acuerdos de comercialización de maíz y soya, mecanismo formación de precios, compras
a gremios, registro en la Bolsa, importaciones programadas; compras de arroz por el PMA; acuerdo de precios de
leche al productor.

Comercio Exterior y Negociaciones Internacionales: acuerdos de importación de maíz y soya; exportación de arroz
a Colombia (acuerdo intergubernamental); posiciones conjuntas sobre desgravación, franja de precios,


                                                        - 29 -

salvaguardias, grupos ad hoc CAN.

Análisis y Estudios: Análisis de Cluster del Maíz, Estudio de Competitividad de la Soya; Planes Estratégicos en
Cacao, Bambú y Café; Análisis de Competitividad, en Azúcar, Carne, Papa y Abacá, de forma participativa.

Fortalecimiento Gremial: Apoyo a la legalización de Fenamaiz, a la creación de las Codepas en papa, a la gestión
gremial (capacitación, información y comercialización).

Capacitación: Capacitación en mecanismos de formación de precios, promoción de exportaciones, análisis de
competitividad y planeación estratégica, uso de información.

Reformas al Marco Legal: reformas al Reglamento de Gremios para facilitar su legalización, nuevo Proyecto de
Ley de Semillas, nuevo Reglamento de Fertilizantes, Decreto y Reglamento de Certificación de Orgánicos

Acciones Competitivas: fideicomiso de la cadena Maíz ­ Soya, programa de productividad del Maíz; prestación de
servicios de la ENAC; campañas de control de la semillas "pirata", cooperación de la ONUDI para dotación de
desfibradora de abacá.

a.2 Agronegocios

La actividad de Agronegocios se orientó fundamentalmente al relevamiento, sistematización y respuesta ágil de
información para un grupo de productos denominados como no tradicionales o nuevos de agroexportación, que
antes de la implementación del SICA no contaban tan siquiera con una información mínima que atienda el interés
de potenciales inversionistas, para la propia orientación de dicha inversión.

Se logró establecer una página web, con un acceso vía enlace desde el portal de la Corpei, especializada en este tipo
de productos, disponer de información actualizada para la organización de seis cadenas en Consejos Consultivos de
no tradicionales, atender los requerimientos vía internet de datos de ofertas locales para contactos comerciales y de
inversión.

Uno de los principales logros fue identificar veinte productos del agro con potencial de exportación, en el marco
del Tratado de Libre Comercio (TLC) con Estados Unidos, para fortalecer su posición actual como exportadores
incipientes o como nuevos con perspectivas.

a.3 Asesoría de Negociaciones

En el marco del proceso de apertura comercial y de inserción en los mercados internacionales, que se presenta
como tendencia ya estructural y de alcance global, el sector agropecuario ecuatoriano es el más vulnerable de la
economía del país y con un ingrediente de alta sensibilidad desde el punto de vista social.

La reducción gradual de aranceles, fue el correlato externo de la eliminación de los precios oficiales, de los
programas estatales de transferencia de tecnologías por producto, así como, de las empresas de semillas y de
comercialización y almacenamiento, y en conjunto desnudaron una serie de debilidades del sector frente a la
competencia externa, tanto como importaciones actuales y potenciales, como para el acceso a los mercados.

En ese contexto, la información del SICA acompañada de análisis y asesoría, permitió el establecimiento y
consolidación de un equipo técnico especializado de negociadores comerciales no sólo para el MAG, sino para todo
el sector agropecuario en general, inexistente como tal antes del Proyecto.

Dos causas explican la ausencia de esa estructura en el MAG: primero, la escasa necesidad en el escenario previo
caracterizado por un proteccionismo de aranceles y cupos de importación frente a los mercados externos y dos, el
perfil profesional de los funcionarios del ministerio más orientado hacia actividades de extensionismo, situación
que se mantiene con ligeros cambios hasta la actualidad, y que el equipo de negociadores del SICA ha suplido, sin
poder transferir por completo sus actividades al MAG por las limitaciones identificadas en el perfil profesional.


                                                        - 30 -

Dentro de los principales resultados de la gestión del SICA para el sector en lo referente a las Negociaciones
Comerciales, en su relación a los objetivos de información para la toma de decisiones, para la formulación de
políticas y fomento de la competencia, podemos citar las siguientes:

Base de Datos de Comercio Exterior. Antes inexistente sino como fuentes dispersas y no sistematizadas de
información, y que en la actualidad permite un conocimiento cabal de las variables más relevantes de
importaciones, exportaciones, franja andina, demandas externas, situación arancelaria, acuerdos comerciales,
mercados internacionales, útil para la identificación de intereses, elaboración de estrategias, y de posiciones de
negociación comercial.

Asesoría permanente a las autoridades estatales, principalmente del MAG y también del MICIP y cancillería, así
como, a los representantes del sector privado en negociaciones comerciales, a nivel de OMC, CAN, MERCOSUR,
CARICOM, ALCA, TLC con EE.UU., APEC y bilaterales con México y Chile, sobre aspectos relacionados como
medidas arancelarias, desgravaciones, franja de precios, salvaguardias, barreras no arancelarias, normativa de
origen, cooperación internacional, controles aduaneros, propiedad intelectual y otros.

Negociaciones Internacionales cerradas exitosamente durante el Proyecto como el acuerdo con MERCOSUR y el
acuerdo bilateral con Chile, el inicio y avance de otras como el acuerdo bilateral con México, las rondas que
correspondieron al ALCA y en la actualidad, las negociaciones del TLC con los Estados Unidos; el seguimiento de
otras negociaciones, como la Zona de Libre Comercio con Colombia y Perú, el Arancel Externo Común Andino, la
Política Agropecuaria Común Andina, las rondas de la OMC, el CARICOM y APEC.

Conformación de un equipo de negociadores privados, cuyo origen ha sido las rondas de consultas del SICA sobre
los preparativos, perspectivas y marcha de las negociaciones y que son financiados enteramente por el sector
privado, lo que denota el grado de importancia e involucramiento que éste le concede a la negociación.

Como impactos de trascendencia de la actividad de Asesoría a la Negociación Comercial en los ejes de
información, políticas, fortalecimiento institucional y contribución económica, es necesario recalcar que el
Proyecto SICA ha estimulado a la par que una cultura de valoración y uso de la información, una ampliación del
horizonte de análisis de esa información hacia los mercados internacionales, como factor estratégico del
posicionamiento competitivo del sector y de las cadenas.

Se han fortalecido las capacidades gremiales de negociación internacional en las principales cadenas de valor, que
coinciden con los productos más sensibles de la negociación, aunque sólo parcialmente se han trasladado esos
conocimientos y habilidades de negociación al MAG.

Se han logrado sostener niveles adecuados de protección/estabilidad a la producción nacional ante las distorsiones
en los mercados internacionales, mediante la defensa de posiciones como el trato diferenciado, salvaguardias,
franja de precios, desgravaciones graduales, derechos variables adicionales.

Se ha contribuido a la reducción de los costos de producción de las materias primas agrícolas al argumentar y
conseguir, en el Comexi, la exoneración al cobro de aranceles a la importación de insumos y equipos.

El mayor acceso a los mercados de exportación, como resultado de las negociaciones, ha facilitado el incremento
de las exportaciones, que sólo en el caso MERCOSUR se ha estimado en alrededor de 50 millones de Dólares
Americanos extras, con un impacto positivo sobre la balanza comercial.

El cambio en la situación de disponibilidad de información, análisis y asesoría para la negociación comercial
internacional a raíz de la actividad del SICA es evidente. Sin embargo, su institucionalización en el MAG se ha
limitado por la falta de un adecuado perfil profesional a nivel de los funcionarios y por la inconsistencia de la
reingeniería más reciente que no estableció una estructura correspondiente en el nuevo orgánico-funcional del
ministerio.




                                                      - 31 -

a.4 Monitoreo de la Inversión

Una de las actividades contempladas desde el diseño original del SICA fue el monitoreo de la inversión pública en
el sector, para evaluar su magnitud, su impacto, su relación respecto a las demandas y su orientación, con la
finalidad de optimizar los recursos estatales y los potenciales privados.

En ese sentido, durante los primeros dos años del Proyecto y en conjunto con la Dirección de Planificación del
MAG, se elaboró un documento al respecto, que sirvió como un vistazo sobre los alcances de la inversión pública
en el agro en relación a sus necesidades y de la brecha entre lo asignado y lo realmente ejecutado.

Sin embargo, la reducción de los presupuestos en el sector, a raíz de la crisis y los drásticos cambios con la
dolarización, que obligaron a reprogramar las prioridades del SICA desde la perspectiva de las autoridades, así
como los propios datos del censo sobre los niveles de cobertura de infraestructura, capacitación, asistencia técnica y
crédito, fiel reflejo de los niveles de inversión pública en el sector, hicieron que esta actividad fuera perdiendo
vigencia en atención a la estrategia del Proyecto de guiarse por la demanda.

b. Servicio de Información

La actividad del Componente A. fue posible debido al funcionamiento del Servicio de Información y del Censo
Agropecuario, como generadores y proveedores de los insumos de datos, tanto brutos en forma de estadísticas
básicas como indicadores ya elaborados, para el análisis y asesoría de políticas y comercial.

El Componente B. construyó la base de datos integral del agro, más amplia, relevante, oportuna, actualizada y de
fácil acceso, que el sector jamás haya dispuesto, y por otra parte, diseñó e implementó unos canales de
diseminación, con énfasis en la Internet para el público en general, en la red de radio para pequeños productores, y
en la información directa vía Consejos y Rondas de Consulta de Negociación para los dirigentes gremiales.

b.1 Sistema de Información

El Proyecto SICA, partiendo de la información contenida en diversas fuentes del MAG, del INEC, del Banco
Central, Inamhi, Empresa de Manifiestos, BNF, así como, la generada por las propias cadenas en Consejos y la de
Negociaciones Comerciales, estableció un Sistema de Información con las principales variables del sector, que
contemplaban las macroeconómicas, las sectoriales y por cadenas, en un esfuerzo sin precedentes en el agro
ecuatoriano de sistematización, que sirviera como base confiable para la toma de decisiones de carácter gerencial
privado, como de políticas a nivel público.

La base de datos organizada por el SICA ha pasado por completo al MAG, que ha recibido la capacitación para
poder administrarla y actualizarla, al menos en su núcleo de variables de mayor relevancia para los sectores
productivos, atendiendo a las dificultades presupuestarias del MAG, que cuenta ahora con el sector privado para el
financiamiento de estadísticas de oferta a nivel de campo en las cadenas comerciales de mayor interés para la
agroindustria.

b.2 Página Web

Uno de los medios tecnológicos para alcanzar una diseminación universal de la información proporcionada por el
SICA es la página web, que constaba desde su diseño y que ha sido uno de los canales de mayor crecimiento en el
país, incluyendo las zonas rurales estimulado por las demandas de comunicación debido a la alta tasa de migrantes
y a nivel de las organizaciones de productores apoyadas por la cooperación internacional y como iniciativa propia
de modernización de servicios a sus asociados.

Prácticamente, la totalidad de la base de datos del sistema de información del SICA ha sido trasladado a la página
web, cuyo menú muestra variables macro y sectoriales, negociaciones comerciales y comercio exterior, cadenas
agroindustriales, nuevos de agroexportación. Estos últimos espacios alimentados por los propios coordinadores de
consejos del MAG, el Censo Agropecuario y una serie de enlaces con instituciones para facilitar el acceso más


                                                        - 32 -

amplio y adecuado para el usuario posible.

La página web del SICA opera plenamente con un promedio de 1.5 millones de visitas al mes, de más de cinco
minutos de duración, siendo la web del sector por excelencia y la página de Internet más visitada del Ecuador, la
cual además ha recibido el premio de los usuarios por su utilidad y fácil navegabilidad.

Adicionalmente, el SICA ha facilitado las capacidades de tecnología informática adquiridas por el proyecto para el
MAG, para dar alojamiento y desarrollo de páginas web del propio ministerio, de sus instituciones adscritas
(SESA, INCCA, INIAP) e inclusive el MICIP.

b.3 Red de Radios

A pesar del crecimiento acelerado del acceso a la Internet, la información disponible en la página web del SICA de
acceso universal, sin restricciones, y sin necesidad de registro para el 99% de su contenido, con el objeto de que sea
lo más adecuada para el usuario, debía ser complementada con productos comunicativos para la radio, el medio de
mayor cobertura y aceptación en las zonas rurales, y una de las formas de diseminar la información a nivel de
pequeños productores.

En esa dirección se concibieron cápsulas informativas para una Red de Radios dirigidas hacia pequeños
productores, que en su momento de apogeo en el momento de realización del Censo Agropecuario, estuvo
conformada por 80 emisoras a nivel nacional y que en promedio contó con 30 radios estables.

Los contenidos del microinformativo radial del SICA iban desde precios y agroclima, noticias de mercado, tips
sobre innovaciones tecnológicas y datos de interés del Censo Nacional Agropecuario y se transmitían, al menos,
una vez por semana. La rápida adopción de las radios rurales de la tecnología de digitalización y de la Internet,
supuso para el SICA modificaciones en los formatos de las cápsulas, que en CD podían pasarse completas o por
partes y la facilidad de enviarlas por el correo electrónico.

Los microinformativos se producían en español y se traducían al quichua, con contenidos diferenciados para costa
y sierra, con el objeto de una comunicación más eficiente desde el punto de vista cultural. La continuación de esta
actividad por el MAG no ha sido posible por la falta de equipos y los costos de producción sin alianzas
interinstitucionales como las que montó el SICA.

b.4 Agrored

En el período del préstamo suplementario, cuyo enfoque principal fue la diseminación, el Proyecto implementó los
primeros 250 puntos a nivel de cámaras y gremios de productores de la Agrored, uno de los proyectos más
ambiciosos del sector para conectar por Internet a los principales actores institucionales del agro y facilitar el flujo
de información.

En general, el Componente B. contribuyó a la sistematización y difusión de la información a niveles no conocidos
por el sector en el Ecuador, como una contribución efectiva a la democratización del acceso a la información de las
variables del sector y noticias de mercado y como soporte al Componente A. para el establecimiento de un diálogo
informado entre el MAG, los dirigentes de los productores y agroindustrias para la toma de decisiones.

c. Censo Agropecuario

El Proyecto SICA es conocido como el "Proyecto del Censo", porque éste es uno de los resultados más relevantes
de su gestión por cinco razones:
· Por llenar el vacío de datos estructurales del agro ecuatoriano que existía desde 1974, año del último Censo
Agropecuario.
· Por su economía de ejecución al ser un censo muestral y rapidez en el procesamiento (menos de dos años).
· Por su excelencia en los resultados, metodológicamente asesorados por el USDA, la institución a nivel mundial
de mayor prestigio en este ámbito.


                                                          - 33 -

· Por su nivel de difusión mediante diálogos directos en talleres, impresos, CD, cápsulas informativas por radio e
Internet a través de la web SICA
· Por la utilidad de sus datos, que han facilitado el diálogo sobre prioridades de inversión y políticas y han servido
de insumos de consulta para la elaboración de proyectos de desarrollo local, regional y nacional.

La percepción general positiva sobre el III CNA, se basa en su confiabilidad como fuente de información sectorial,
su utilidad práctica para el análisis (sustentados en datos y no meras elucubraciones) y para la elaboración de
proyectos de desarrollo territorial y de cadenas, por su nivel de desglose hasta cantones.

El III Censo Nacional Agropecuario (III CNA), representa la respuesta a una de las demandas de información más
sensibles del sector para su desarrollo, al capturar variables estructurales que dan cuenta de la situación real de
competitividad de éste, analizar los cambios respecto a la tenencia de la tierra, uso del suelo, cobertura de
infraestructura, y de los servicios de capacitación, asistencia técnica, crédito, niveles de tecnificación,
características de la mano de obra, escolaridad, grado de asociatividad, entre otras.

El acopio y organización, estadísticamente sustentadas, de aquellas variables estructurales de movimiento
relativamente lento, permiten a su vez analizar mesuradamente las debilidades del sector, cuantificar sus
deficiencias, priorizar problemas, orientar la inversión pública y privada para superarlas.

El III CNA fue diseñado en sus cuadros de salida y boleta de encuesta, con la participación y en función de las
demandas de información de los sectores productivos y del estado, con la asesoría metodológica del Departamento
de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica (USDA), quizás la institución d mayor experticia sobre
censos agropecuarios en el orbe.

Uno de los principales aportes del III CNA, con el apoyo del SICA y asesoría del USDA, fue que por primera vez
se logró capturar variables como la asociación de cultivos, una de las prácticas más usuales en los estratos de
pequeños productores, que los censos anteriores no habían podido recoger y que es clave para el diseño de
proyectos de desarrollo local, así como, para la formulación de estrategias de lucha contra la pobreza rural, ya que
permite visualizar el peso de los diferentes cultivos como medios de vida de los productores en situación de
pobreza.

El apoyo técnico, financiero y logístico del SICA, dirigido a fortalecer las capacidades institucionales del INEC, ha
sido decisivo para estandarizar metodologías y hacer un levantamiento, procesamiento y difusión de la información
en plazos récord, considerando las adversas condiciones de inestabilidad política en las que tuvo lugar el censo.

No obstante esas complejas circunstancias, el III CNA fue realizado con altos niveles de calidad, en tiempo récord
y con gran economía de recursos, al emplearse una combinación de censo por enumeración completa para rubros
de plantaciones agroempresariales y por muestreo para el resto de cultivos. Esa metodología representa, en sí
misma, otro aporte que contribuirá a viabilizar un nuevo censo agropecuario en el futuro, para el nivel de recursos
de la economía ecuatoriana.

Las capacidades de procesamiento informático adquiridas por el proyecto para el INEC y un pool altamente
competente de especialistas permitieron un rápido procesamiento de 200 millones de datos y la publicación de los
resultados a nivel nacional, provincial y cantonal, en menos de dos años, a partir de la fecha de inicio de la
recolección de campo en 1999.

Los resultados del censo disponibles a nivel nacional, regional, provincial y cantonal, han sido ampliamente
difundidos mediante talleres, impresos, radio, CD y página web y se han constituido en fuente obligatoria de
consulta y cita de los diagnósticos para la elaboración de análisis y proyectos de desarrollo, así como, en un
referente internacional de precisión de los datos de censos muestrales, a menor costo que los de enumeración
completa.

La etapa del préstamo suplementario se enfocó hacia una máxima socialización de la información censal, que
aparte de los medios tecnológicos y de publicaciones ampliamente diseminadas, empleó la modalidad de talleres


                                                         - 34 -

para hacer más fructífera la comunicación de la información censal, con el análisis y la reflexión entorno a
propuestas sobre los problemas estructurales del sector.

A partir de los datos del censo, se produjeron elaboraciones como las estadísticas de indicadores sociales del censo,
con énfasis en la situación de los pequeños productores y las familias, así como, el desglose de los resultados y
análisis del III CNA por cadenas en maíz amarillo, abacá, papa, semillas, algodón y arroz.

El INEC cuenta en la actualidad, luego del apoyo del SICA, con capacidades institucionales de talento humano
capacitado y tecnología informática capaz de dar soporte en un futuro a las actualizaciones del Censo y a las
Encuestas Anuales del Sector.

d. Encuesta de Superficie y Producción Anuales de Cultivos (ESPAC)

Con las capacidades actuales de procesamiento del INEC proporcionadas por el SICA para el III CNA, y una vez
ubicados los fondos en el presupuesto del estado, el Instituto ha retomado la ESPAC, que complementan la
actualización de las variables de coyuntura en los períodos intercensales para construir las series de datos
necesarios para analizar tendencias y diseñar modelos econométricos.

Sin embargo, las necesidades gerenciales del sector privado han hecho que los datos de la ESPAC sean
considerados como de utilidad histórica y no como instrumentos oportunos para la toma de decisiones porque no
muestran perspectivas (sino datos del semestre anterior). Por lo que, en algunos Consejos Consultivos (maíz, soya,
arroz) se ha optado por utilizar submuestras y la metodología estadística para encuestas rápidas, que proporcionen
datos de cosechas principales con carácter inmediato.

e. Administración del Proyecto

La Administración del Proyecto se caracterizó por un sistema de planeación estratégica incremental, orientado
desde la demanda para poder dirigir al SICA a la consecución de los objetivos de mejorar la información, la
calidad, el uso de ésta, a través del análisis y asesoría, con la misión de democratizarla, reduciendo las brechas de
acceso a nivel de organizaciones de pequeños productores.

Ese sistema fue complementado con el estímulo a una sinergia entre componentes y actividades, y un manejo
altamente profesional de la administración del talento humano y de los recursos, de acuerdo a las normativas del
BM para este tipo de proyectos.

La administración del Proyecto ha facilitado la conceptualización de las experiencias del SICA, sobretodo en los
temas de cadenas y de grupos, así como, en las lecciones aprendidas, en la perspectiva de su utilidad para el futuro
diseño de proyectos de apoyo a la competitividad en el agro ecuatoriano.

En sentido general se aprecia un alto grado de cumplimiento de los objetivos del diseño del proyecto, así como
resultados altamente satisfactorios a nivel de sus componentes y actividades, de Consejos, Negociaciones, Sistema
de Información y Censo, aunque algunas inicialmente contempladas como el monitoreo de la inversión hayan
dejado de tener prioridad para las autoridades del MAG.

Sin embargo, en función de la demanda surgieron otras de relevancia como la Red de Radios, la Agrored y los
Agronegocios, que respondieron a los requerimientos de información de los gremios y a una orientación hacia los
mercados externos, respectivamente.

La coordinación del Proyecto ha permitido una fuerte y positiva influencia de éste en el mejoramiento de la
información y su uso, en la disminución de las asimetrías de acceso y en la reducción de los costos de transacción,
en la formulación de políticas y en el fomento de la competitividad, incluso con impactos iniciales medibles muy
significativos de contribución económica para el sector, en especial, para los ingresos del sector productor
primario, el agroindustrial y de exportación.




                                                          - 35 -

3. Sostenibilidad

El aseguramiento de la sostenibilidad de las principales actividades y resultados del SICA, si bien ha sido una de
las prioridades de la conducción del proyecto, no ha tenido un comportamiento homogéneo en todos los
componentes y actividades, debido a factores subjetivos y objetivos, relacionados con los énfasis cambiantes de un
alto número de autoridades que han pasado por el MAG en el período del proyecto y a las debilidades
institucionales no atribuibles al SICA, sino al relegamiento que el estado ha hecho tradicionalmente al sector, y que
se reflejan en presupuestos y ejecuciones bajas.

En el Componente A. Proceso de Políticas, la totalidad de los Consejos Consultivos operativos están siendo
coordinados por funcionarios del MAG capacitados por el SICA, con un adecuado hardware y software, así como
niveles de experiencia distribuidos para facilitar el diálogo en cadenas de conflictividad distinta, amparados en un
organi-funcional que contempla la Coordinación de Cadenas.

Sin embargo, las dificultades presupuestarias del MAG, obstaculizan un seguimiento adecuado de todas las
reuniones, incluidos los comités técnicos, en donde se procesan las soluciones que posteriormente serán llevadas a
los Consejos. La reingeniería del MAG y decisiones inconsultas de trasladar los Consejos a las provincias,
generaron a escasos meses del cierre, una necesidad adicional de capacitación a otros funcionarios, que fue suplida
en parte por el SICA, aunque en definitiva se volvió a dejar los Consejos en Planta Central y a mantener las
coordinaciones en los funcionarios de acuerdo a su experiencia y nivel de capacitación aportado por el Proyecto.

El MAG no otorgó la prioridad del caso al área de Agronegocios, por lo que no se dispone de los funcionarios que
puedan mantener actualizado este esquema de respuesta ágil a demandas de información de no tradicionales.

El perfil profesional desfasado de los funcionarios del MAG respecto a las demandas para la negociación comercial
internacional, así como, la ausencia de una estructura que atienda este frente en la reingeniería del MAG y las
restricciones presupuestarias para traslados al exterior, impidió que la actividad de asesoría a la negociación, para
la cual el SICA conformó un equipo especializado de consultores, fuese asumida por entero en el MAG.

No obstante, los coordinadores MAG de los Grupos ad hoc andinos, manejaron los intereses de las cadenas a nivel
de la CAN, se conformó en la práctica un grupo de negociadores privados y en los meses previos al cierre del
Proyecto, el MAG ha incorporado a economistas agrícolas, que con una adecuada capacitación podrán afrontar en
los años venideros la negociación con la Unión Europea.

El Sistema de Información del SICA ha sido completamente transferido al MAG, repartido entre las direcciones de
estadísticas, el DINAREN y la actualización de las web de cadenas a cargo de cada coordinador del MAG, desde
los terminales proporcionados por el SICA, al igual que la capacitación en Primera Plana (Frontpage). La
administración del sistema está a cargo de la Dirección de Informática. El pago de la Internet se reparte entre las
instituciones a las que el SICA dió alojamiento temporal. Las dificultades estriban en la asignación de recursos
para el mantenimiento del hardware y actualización del software en el mediano plazo.

La Red de Radios y la Agrored, son actividades que no se tenían previstos traspasar al MAG debido a que no
cuenta con un departamento de comunicación con instalaciones y conocimientos al respecto. Estas actividades han
pasado al sector privado, como iniciativas de programas radiales especializadas en información del agro
(actualmente uno se encuentra en fase de prueba) y las Cámaras de Agricultura continuarán incrementando los
puntos de conexión a la Agrored, a la espera de que un nuevo proyecto impulse esta iniciativa estratégica.

El Censo Agropecuario y la ESPAC fueron transferidos íntegramente al INEC, lo que incluye los vehículos, el
centro de procesamiento en hardware y software, la capacitación metodológica (también trasladada a técnicos de la
Dirección de Estadísticas del MAG), mapas, segmentos, listados y muestras.

El INEC ha conseguido que se incluyan en el presupuesto estatal los recursos indispensables para la encuesta anual
de superficie y producción. Sin embargo, está por verse si la ejecución presupuestaria efectiva lo permite, así como,
la asignación de fondos en el futuro para un nuevo censo de carácter muestral para fines de la presente década.


                                                         - 36 -

En general, a pesar de los desniveles que se observan en la sostenibilidad entre distintas actividades del proyecto,
se puede afirmar que ésta se encuentra garantizada en el núcleo de actividades centrales de información sectorial y
de cadenas, así como, a nivel de los Consejos Consultivos, mientras que por dificultades presupuestarias, de
ausencia de estructuras y de formación profesional, la sostenibilidad institucional en el MAG se haya
comprometida en la asesoría comercial, aunque esas capacidades si han sido trasladadas al sector privado, mientras
que el INEC cuenta con la capacidad técnica y logística para la ESPAC y al menos se ha provisto en el presupuesto
estatal de los recursos necesarios.

4. Desempeño del Banco y del Prestatario

El desempeño del Banco respecto al diseño e implementación del Proyecto SICA se ha caracterizado por un apoyo
sostenido de asesoría y seguimiento tanto técnico como financiero-administrativo y por el cumplimiento de los
desembolsos en los tiempos esperados y de acuerdo a las solicitudes del proyecto, a pesar de la inestabilidad que
pudo suponer el cambio de tres gerentes de proyecto en el lapso del proyecto.

El Banco mantuvo una línea de alta exigencia en relación a la normatividad estipulada para este tipo de proyectos,
facilitando la capacitación del personal administrativo-financiero del SICA, así como, en la búsqueda de los
objetivos trazados en el diseño, mediante un monitoreo sistemático a través de las misiones y de las consultas a los
gerentes de proyecto, con una equivalente flexibilidad a nivel de actividades para poder adaptarse a una demanda
incremental de información, análisis, asesoría y facilitación de diálogo, que la propia actividad del SICA iba
estimulando en las cadenas y en el sector en general.

El Banco analizó las dificultades atravesadas por el SICA en el período de duración del proyecto, así como el
correcto manejo de recursos y fue flexible ante la solicitud del préstamo suplementario para asegurar la máxima
democratización de los resultados del Censo, así como la extensión de la fecha de cierre del proyecto para asegurar
la máxima sostenibilidad posible en la situación de una nueva reingeniería del MAG.

El Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, en su calidad de prestatario, contribuyó al logro de los resultados positivos
del Proyecto, a través de una entrega regular y sistemática de la contraparte local para hacer expeditos los trámites
de desembolsos del préstamo y en general con niveles adecuados de cooperación ante dificultades puntuales,
haciéndose eco de las solicitudes de los ministros de agricultura para la consecución del préstamo suplementario y
de la ampliación del plazo de cierre, en su momento.

5. Lecciones aprendidas

De la experiencia del SICA como servicio de información/comunicación para las Cadenas de Valor del Agro
ecuatoriano y su institucionalidad expresada en los Consejos Consultivos, se desprenden las siguientes lecciones y
conclusiones, para el futuro diseño de iniciativas de ese tipo:

a) La información es una demanda de los actores en el agro, que debe ser respondida, rebasándola mediante
sistemas de comunicación en donde interactúen la diversidad de agentes públicos y privados, y que abran un
diálogo informado y analítico sobre los desafíos de los mercados, y una mediación de intereses con enfoque de
cadenas hacia el logro de acuerdos de competitividad, entendida esta última como un equilibrio dinámico entre
competencia y cooperación.

b) La información transformada en comunicación debe poseer como sistema de coherencia interna, tanto como
correspondencia externa con los aspectos más relevantes de interés de las cadenas, sus eslabones y estratos de
actores, como en su relación con las demandas de los mercados y las estrategias de desarrollo rural y combate a la
pobreza.

c) La comunicación en el agro debe comprender e insertarse en los códigos culturales de los diversos actores,
seleccionando los medios tecnológicos más eficientes para cada situación y combinándolos con la insustituible
comunicación directa.


                                                        - 37 -

d) La comunicación en el agro debe articularse a procesos de capacitación e innovación tecnológica para
potenciarse mutuamente, conformando la gestión del conocimiento que impulse los cambios que el agro requiere.

e) Una gestión del conocimiento que guarde sentido para los actores del agro, transcurre en una dialéctica de lo
concreto a lo abstracto para comprender las dinámicas económicas, para finalmente plasmarse de nuevo en
iniciativas y proyectos que representen cambios relevantes y visibles.

f) La gestión del conocimiento en las cadenas, que genera iniciativas de cambio, debe involucrarse y acompañar a
los actores en la elaboración de los proyectos y en la consecución de las fuentes de financiamiento interno y externo
para su implementación.

g) Los procesos de cambio en el sector agropecuario requieren de impactos en el corto plazo, que estimulen a los
actores, siempre y cuando respondan a una estrategia de sostenibilidad, basada en la combinación del apoyo
público con la iniciativa privada y la cooperación internacional, en el largo plazo, hasta consolidar el esfuerzo
propio de los actores en las cadenas y asegurar la irreversibilidad de los cambios.

h) La articulación de los procesos de desarrollo de las cadenas a nivel local/territorial, con la formulación de
políticas nacionales/ sectoriales, genera mayor certidumbre en el entorno de los negocios, que facilita el fomento de
las cadenas en el ámbito local/territorial, para maximizar los impactos positivos de los acuerdos macro.

El reto consiste en trascender la información, hacia sistemas democráticos de comunicación con traducción
cultural, articulados a procesos de capacitación e innovación tecnológica, para conformar una gestión del
conocimiento, que responda con iniciativas de cambio a los desafíos que plantean los mercados globales, y las
necesidades de desarrollo social en el medio rural, desde una estrategia de sostenibilidad que incluya gestión para
el financiamiento y acompañamiento, y la cooperación permanente entre actores públicos y privados, desde las
dinámicas locales/territoriales insertadas y participando en la formulación de políticas sectoriales/nacionales.




                                                        - 38 -

- 39 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33399

   82°W                                                                         80°W                                    79°W

                                                                                                                                                                      ECUADOR

                                                                                                                                                                              SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                              PROVINCE CAPITALS

                              ECUADOR                                                                                                           2°N                           NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                              RIVERS

                                                                                                                                                                              MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                              RAILROADS

                                                                                                                    C O L O M B I A                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                        San Lorenzo
                                                                                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

1°N                              Esmeraldas


                                                                                                                            Tulcán
                                                                                                                            ulcán
                                                          E S M E R A L D A S                            C A R C H I                            1°N

                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                      Pasto



                                                                                                                                San
      ATLANTIC                                                                                                                  Gabriel    La Bonita
        OCEAN                                  Rosa Zárate
                                                       Zárate                        I M B A B            U R A         Ibarra                       San Miguel                   Putumayo

                                                                                                                 Otavalo                                                                            Puerto el Carmen
                                                                                                                                                           Nueva Loja                                de Putumayo

0°N                                                                       P I C H I N C H A                                                                                                                                0°N
                                                                                                                        Cayambe
                                                                                                                        (5,790 m)                           S U C U M B Í O S
                            Jama                      Santo Domingo
                                                    de los Colorados                  QUITO

                                                                                                          Antisana
                                                                                                    (5,704 m)                  Baeza                                         Napo
                                                                                                                                                       Puerto Francisco
    Bahía de Caráquez     M A N A B Í
                                                                                                    Cotopaxi                                           de Orellana
                                  Chone              Daule                                          (5,879 m)           Real
                                                                         C O T O PA X I
                               Calceta                                                                                                                             O R E L L A N A
       Manta                                                                                     Latacunga             N A P O                                                                               Nuevo
                                             Velasco
1°S                                                                                                                                                                                                    Rocafuerte
                                               Ibarra
                      Portoviejo                                   Quevedo

                                                                                    Ambato                    Cordillera         Tena                                                                                      1°S


                                                                                                                                                                                 Cononaco
          Jipijapa     Sucre                                             Chimborazo
                                                   L O S                 BO(6,267 m) T U N G U R A H U A                                      Curaray
                                                                                                           Mera
                                                   R Í O S                                                                  Puyo
                           Palestina

                                                            Babahoyo       LÍVAGuaranda                                                                                   Curaray             Cononaco
                                                                                                Riobamba                                        PA S TA Z A
                                                                               R ZO                                 Palora
                                                                                                                                                         Lonambo
 Manglaralto                                                                                                                     Chiguaza

2°S             G U AYA S
                     AYA                                                                                     Sangay                                                Conambo                                                 2°S
                                                           Milagro                                           (5,230 m)

                                                                                                                            Macama                            Corrientes      Río Tigre
                                                                                                                                                                              Río

Salinas                  Guayaquil                             Cumandá
                                                               Cumandá           C  H I M B O R A
                                                                                      Alausí
                                                                                      Alausí               Macas

                                                                                                           Sucua
                                                                         C A Ñ A R                                    M O R O N A -                Huasaga

                                           Naranjal                                                                  S A N T I A G O
                     Posorja

                                                                                     General L. Plaza                                          To
                                                                                                                                            Trozadero
3°S            Golfo de                                                                       Gutiérrez
                                                                                              Gutiérrez                                                                                                                    3°S
             Guayaquil             Canal de Jambelí                       Azogues                             Mendez
                                                                       Cuenca

                                                            A Z U AY
                                                                                                                                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                          Machala                                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                            Uzhcurrumi                                                          P E R U              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any

                            Huaquillas                                             Gualaquiza       Zamora                                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                      To
                    Talara       E L O R O
                                                                                                                                              GALAPAGOS ISLANDS                                           90°

                                                                                Yantzaza                                                             ARCHIPIÉLAGO                    ISLA PINTA
                                                                     Loja                                                                               DE COLÓN
4°S                                    Catacocha                                                                                                                                            ISLA MARCHENA
                                                                                     Zamora                                         4°S

                            Catamaya      L O J A             Andes      Malacatos                                                                                                                        ISLA GENOVESA
                                                                                                                                                                        PACIFIC        OCEAN
                   Zapatillo                Macará
                                            Macará                                                                                          0°                                                                              0°
                                                               Cariamanga
                                                                   M                                                                                                       P R O V I N C I A D E
                                   To                                                                                                                                             ISLA SAN SALVADOR
                                 Sullana                            ts.
                                                                         Z  A M OI N C
                                                                                    R A -H I P E
                                                                                                                                                    ISLA
                                                                                                                                            FERNANDINA                        G A L Á PA G O S
                                                                              C H                                                                                                            ISLA SANTA CRUZ

       0         40        80               120 Kilometers                                                                                                            ISLA                                       ISLA SAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CRISTÓBAL
5°S                                                                                                                                 5°S                            ISABELA
                                                                                                                                            1°                                                                              1°

       0               40                        80 Miles                                                                                       0   25    50   75    100                        ISLA SANTA MARÍA

  82°W                           81°W                                           80°W                                    79°W                         KILOMETERS                                                         ISLA
                                                                                                                                                                            91°                            90°     ESPAÑOLA

                                                                                                                                                                                                               NOVEMBER 2004

