Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4279-EC
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Census and Information System Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated  May 20, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4279-EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
Page  2
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Annual Operating Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 
3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
“Central Bank” means the Borrower’s Banco Central del Ecuador;
(c)
“Consultative Council” means a council to be established by the Borrower, 
with composition, powers and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
overall supervision of the Project and the review of the Annual Operating Plans;
(d)
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(e)
“Indicators” means the evaluation and monitoring indicators set forth in 
a supplemental letter of even date herewith;
(f)
“INEC” means Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censos, the Borrower’s 
institute for statistics and census;
(g)
“INEC Law” means law number 323 published in the Registro Oficial, the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette, on July 31, 1978;
(h)
“INEC Project Unit” means a unit to be established by the Borrower within 
INEC, with composition, powers and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, to 
assist in the implementation of Parts C and D of the Project;
(i)
“MAG” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture;
(j)
“Operational Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, describing 
the procedures for implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time 
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(k)
“Project Preparation Advances’ means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
respectively  March 20, 1996 and April 4, 1996; and June 23, 1997 and July 4, 1997, 
between the Borrower and the Bank;
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
Page  3
(m)
“Technical Secretariat” means a secretariat to be established within MAG 
by the Borrower, with composition, powers and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the implementation of all Parts of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
million Dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank or a commercial bank acceptable 
to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including, in the event 
that the account is opened in a commercial bank, appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon 
be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
Page  4
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(a)
shall carry out the Project, through the Technical Secretariat with the 
participation of INEC in respect of Parts C and D of the Project, with due diligence 
and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate technical, administrative, financial, 
agricultural and environmental practices, and in accordance with the Operational 
Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project;
(b)
the Borrower shall, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
enter into an agreement with INEC setting forth their respective obligations in the 
implementation of Parts C and D of the Project including, inter alia, INEC’s 
obligation to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required therefor;
(c)
the Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Implementation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
the Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Indicators, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
(i) by no later than June 30, 1998, furnish to the Bank for its approval, 
an annual operating plan for the implementation of the Project during calendar year 
1998; and (ii) thereafter by no later than December 15 of each year, commencing 
December 15, 1998, until completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank for its 
Page  5
approval, an annual operating plan for the implementation of the Project during the 
upcoming twelve months, such plan to comprise: (A) the main activities to be carried 
out under the Project during the respective year; (B) the objectives, and expected 
results or outputs of such activities; (C) the corresponding cost estimates and 
budgets, including the counterpart funds; (D) the proposed revisions to the 
Indicators, if applicable; and (E) the relevant institutional arrangements and 
responsibilities;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank on or about February 28 and August 31 each year, commencing on August 31, 
1998, a report each integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(d)
review with the Bank, by November 30 each year, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain the Consultative Council, the Technical Secretariat, and the INEC Project 
Unit, at all times until completion of the Project, staffed by professionals with 
qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, 
assisted by qualified personnel in adequate numbers.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent private 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the INEC Law or the Operational Manual or any provision thereof shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the 
opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower or INEC to 
perform any of its respective obligations or undertakings set forth or referred to in 
this Agreement or the Implementation Agreement;
(b)
INEC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations or undertakings 
under the Implementation Agreement;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that INEC will be able to perform their respective obligations or undertakings under 
the Implementation Agreement; and
(d)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower or any other 
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or 
disestablishment of INEC or for the suspension of its operations so as to affect, in 
the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely, the ability of INEC to perform any 
of its obligations or undertakings under the Implementation Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) in respect of the Operational Manual 
or in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank 
to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (a) in respect of the INEC Law or in 
paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Consultative Council, the Technical Secretariat, and the INEC 
Page  7
Project Unit shall have been established and staffed, to the satisfaction of the Bank;
(b)
that the Implementation Agreement shall have been entered into between 
the Borrower and INEC;
(c)
that the Operational Manual shall have been adopted by the Technical 
Secretariat and INEC; and
(d)
that an administrative, accounting and financial system, satisfactory to 
the Bank, pertaining to Parts C and D of the Project shall have been established by 
INEC.
Section 6.02. The date August 18, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower  for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Av. 10 de agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Cable Address: 
Telex:
MINFINANZAS
22358 MINFIN
Quito, Ecuador
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Alberto Maspons 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  8
By /s/ Andrés Solimano 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin American and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
  Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services
  5,300,000
100%
and training
(2)
Vehicles and
  2,200,000
100% of foreign
equipment
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(3)
Service Contracts
  7,500,000
100%
(4)
Civil works
     20,000
90%
(5)
Incremental Operating
  2,900,000
80% for payments made
Costs
until March 31, 1999;
thereafter 60% for 
payments made until
March 31, 2001; and
20% thereafter
(6)
Refunding of Project
    850,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
  1,230,000
TOTAL
 20,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service;
(d)
the term “training” means the cost of trainers’ fees, trainees travel 
costs and per diem, rental of training facilities, training materials, all related to 
the implementation of the workshops, study tours, degree courses and scholarships as 
part of the training activities included in the Project; and
(e)
“Service Contracts” means the cost of services for implementation of 
surveys and other data gathering activities for Parts C and D of the Project.
Page  9
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,500,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after September 1, 
1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works including 
service contracts for implementation of Parts C and D of the Project under contracts 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (b) consultants’ services under contracts with 
consulting firms and individual consultants not exceeding $100,000 and $25,000 
equivalent, respectively, incremental operating costs, and training, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the availability, consistency, 
validity and timeliness of information on the Borrower’s agricultural sector so as to 
facilitate decision-making by the public and private sectors.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
MAG’s Institutional Strengthening
Provision of technical assistance and equipment for:
1.
Strengthening MAG’s capacity to conduct economic analysis of its trade, 
macroeconomics and other sectoral and commodity specific policies, and production and 
dissemination of reports thereof.
2.
Strengthening of MAG’s and the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance’s capacity:
(a)
to monitor and evaluate the performance of the Borrower’s investments in 
the agricultural sector;
(b)
to link investments with sector policies and priorities;
(c)
to target vulnerable groups; and
(d)
to seek and engage the collaboration of non-governmental organizations in 
the implementation of the Borrower’s agricultural programs.
3.
Training of MAG’s and the Technical Secretariat’s staff in policy and economic 
analysis, and in trade related matters.
4.
Rehabilitation of offices of MAG.
Part B:
Agricultural Information and Dissemination Service
Provision of technical assistance and computer and communications equipment for:
1.
Design, implementation and maintenance of MAG’s sector database, and production 
of statistical bulletins and reports on: 
(a)
agricultural commodity projections and outlook reports;
(b)
farm expenditures and cost of production; and
(c)
other subjects as the Bank shall agree.
2.
Strengthening of MAG’s capacity for dissemination of market prices of 
agricultural commodities and other agricultural news including, inter alia:
Page  10
(a)
supervision and training of field personnel;
(b)
standardization of methodologies and criteria;
(c)
collection and dissemination of agricultural production news; and
(d)
dissemination of information through radio broadcasts.
3.
Evaluation of agroclimatic impact including, inter alia:
(a)
expansion and upgrading of MAG’s meteorological stations;
(b)
updating of MAG’s meteorological equipment and acquisition of a satellite 
receiver system;
(c)
data collection from various sources and analysis thereof;
(d)
implementation of an early alarm service on climatic phenomena;
(e)
evaluations of long-term climatic anomalies;
(f)
communication and dissemination of results of such data collection and 
evaluation on a periodic basis; and
(g)
training of MAG’s staff in agrometeorological analysis and in the design 
and preparation of extension reports.
4.
MAG’s computer center including, inter alia:
(a)
training of MAG’s staff in information management, survey processing and 
information services; and
(b)
installation and operation of intranet and internet services.
Part C:
Agricultural Sample Census
1.
Provision of technical assistance and equipment for:
(a)
Design and implementation of an agricultural sample census, including the 
design and selection of the sample, the determination of the surveying methodology, 
and design of the questionnaire and tabulation formats, pilot tests of the 
methodology, and data collection on production, farms resources, land tenancy 
patterns, and socioeconomic characteristics of farm households, and publication and 
dissemination of the results.
(b)
Training of INEC’s staff in all aspects of census design and 
implementation.
2.
Rehabilitation of offices of INEC.
Part D:
Agricultural Farm Production Survey
1.
Carrying out of a survey on annual agricultural farm production in the 
Borrower’s territory.
2.
Carrying out of a survey on farm income and expenditure in the Borrower’s 
territory.
3.
Provision of equipment and technical assistance to INEC for implementation of 
Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  11
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 2003
through December 15, 2014
835,000
On December 15, 2014
795,000
__________________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Sections I, III and IV of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C.2 hereof, vehicles shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to vehicles to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
Page  12
To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically-manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods (other than vehicles) and works for surveys and post surveys shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part 
C.1, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
National Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent; and (b) works for surveys and 
post surveys estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,500,000 equivalent; and (c) no more than five 
vehicles, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Works
Works for office rehabilitation under Parts A.4 and C.2 of the Project shall be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract procured pursuant to the provisions of Parts 
B.1 and C.1 hereof; and (b) the first two contracts each procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Parts C.2 and C.3 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Page  13
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Sections II, III and IV of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Services for training, and for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 the terms of 
reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.  
Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set 
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
procurement of goods referred to in Part B.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
Page  14
1.
Bids shall be submitted in one single envelope, and the name of each bidder and 
the total amount of each bid, as well as any alternative proposals, if they have been 
requested or permitted, shall be read aloud when opened.
2.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to have a local representative for 
purposes of submitting bids.
3.
Foreign bidders shall be permitted to have their financial solvency certified by 
a foreign bank acceptable to the procuring party without recertification by any 
Ecuadoran bank or other Ecuadoran person or entity.
4.
Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign sureties approved by 
the procuring party shall be admissible without recertification or other participation 
by any Ecuadoran bank or other Ecuadoran person or entity.
5.
Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods or provider of services shall 
not be required to be counter-guaranteed by such supplier or provider in whole or in 
part. This shall not prevent the procuring party from obtaining other performance 
warranties from such suppliers or providers.
B.
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set 
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
procurement of goods referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to bid on all contracts.
2.
The date for the opening of bids shall be set on a date which shall be at least 
thirty days from the date of the last advertisement of the invitation to bid.
3.
The invitation to bid shall be advertised for at least three days in a newspaper 
of wide circulation in Ecuador.
4.
Contracts must be awarded to the bidder whose bid was evaluated as the lowest 
and responsive, in accordance with criteria set forth in the bidding documents.
C.
In addition to and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set 
forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following provisions shall 
govern all employment of consultants referred to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a 
condition of participation in the selection process.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or indirectly, to 
give any participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any local firm or 
person.
3.
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to provide 
services, to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum capital different from that 
required for Ecuadoran firms.
4.
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to pay 
fees to the Ecuadoran Consultants’ Association that are different from those required 
for Ecuadoran consultants.
5.
No consultant shall, at the time he or she is carrying out his or her 
contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil service office or any other position 
in an agency of the Borrower or any Ecuadoran public sector entity, nor shall such 
consultant have any right to re-entry into any such office or position upon the 
conclusion of his or her consulting services.
Section IV.   Internal Approvals
1.
With respect to the procurement of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, any approval of bidding documents and contracts required under the laws of 
the Borrower shall be given only by the Technical Secretariat.
2.
With respect to the employment of consultants, any approval of contracts or of 
Page  15
consultant selection processes required under the laws of the Borrower, shall be given 
only by the Technical Secretariat.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $1,500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $750,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
Page  16
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
