Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H3500-CI 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Economic Governance and Recovery Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC
 OF CÔTE D’IVOIRE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 1, 2008 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H3500-CI
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated April 1, 2008, entered into between 
REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D’IVOIRE 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
(a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described 
in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to one hundred ninety 
four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 194,000,000
)
(“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Un-withdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
2.05.  
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program, including any action specified in Section I of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
A
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
17 P. O. Box 670 
Abidjan 17 
Côte d’Ivoire 
Cable: 
  Facsimile: 
MINFIN   225-20-30-25-25 
Abidjan 
  225-20-30-25-28 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
Page  5
4
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D’IVOIRE 
 
By /s/ Christophe Kouakou  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Antonella Bassani 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following: 
Public Expenditure Management
1. 
Adoption of a budget, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, for 
year 2007, and publication, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, of the 
C
abinet’s communiqué regarding said budget. 
2. 
Satisfactory regularization of at least 70 percent (70%) of all treasury advances 
made between January 1 and September 30, 2007. 
 Energy
3. 
Satisfactory advancement as follows in the carrying out of financial, technical, 
and operational audits, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, of 
the following sub-sectors: 
(a) 
Electricity (Ivorian Electricity Company (
Compagnie Ivoirienne 
d’Électricité
 (CIE)), Electricity Sector Capital Management Company 
(
Société de Gestion du Patrimoine du Secteur de l’Électricité
 
(SOGEPE))): Resumption of work of auditor, and audit in progress; 
(b) 
Petroleum and gas (National Petrol Operations Com
pany of Côte 
d’Ivoire (
Société Nationale d’Operations Pétrolières de la Côte d’Ivoire
 
(PETROCI))): Submission to the Association of a preliminary report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and organization of a 
workshop, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of 
review of said report; and 
(c) 
Refining, storage, and distribution (Ivorian Refining Company
 (Société 
Ivoirienne de Raffinage
 (SIR))): Completion. 
4. 
Continued pursuance of accession to the Extractive Industries Transparency 
Initiative, as evidenced by: 
(a) 
Organization, in Abidjan, of a seminar, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association and with the participation of civil society, 
for purposes of launch of said Initiative; 
Page  7
6
(b) 
Establishment of a national council, with an institutional framework and 
resources satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of participatory 
implementation of the principles of the Extractive Industry Transparency 
Initiative, including oversight and monitoring and evaluation
 
of
fulfillment by the Recipient of the requirements under said Initiative; and 
(c) 
Appointment of members of said council satisfactory to the Association. 
Cocoa
5. 
Reduction of FCA Francs 2.65 / kilogram in the total amount of quasi-fiscal 
levies collected on cocoa by entities in the sector (including Coffee and Cocoa 
Exchange (
Bourse du Café et du Cacao
), Coffee and Cocoa Producers’ Activities 
Development and Promotion Fund (
Fonds de développement et de promotion des 
Activités des producteurs de café et de cacao
), Coffee-Cocoa Regulation and 
Inspection Fund (
Fonds de Régulation et de Contrôle Café-Cacao
), Coffee and 
Cocoa Regulatory Authority (
Autorité de régulation du Café et du Cacao
), 
bagging), from FCA Francs 49.11 / kilogram in 2006-07 to FCA Francs 46.46 / 
kilogram in 2007-08. 
6. 
Adoption of operating procedures, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, for the Coffee
 and Cocoa Producers’ Activities Development and 
Promotion Fund’s Investment Fund (Investment), Coffee and Cocoa Regulation 
and Inspection Fund’s Prudential Fund (
Réserve de prudence
), and Rural 
Investment Fund (
Fonds d’Investissement en milieu rural
), and communication 
to the Association of information as to the investment projects approved under 
said Funds for years 2007 and 2008 and the implementation status of such 
projects. 
Financial Sector
7. 
Organization of hearings, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, by the 
Recipient’s ministry at the time responsible for finance, with the 
 
five (5) commercial banks having negative equity as of December 31, 2006 as 
per the report of the Banking Commission (
Commission Bancaire
), for purposes 
of preparation of restructuring plans of said banks. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  8
7
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche: 
 
Part A 
 
172,000,000 
Part B 
 
22,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
194,000,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request for 
withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain the following deposit 
account
 (“Deposit Account”) acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association: 
A
dedicated deposit account in CFA Francs (“Deposit Account”) for funds 
allocated to Part B of the Financing. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into this 
account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget management 
system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, 
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than  
four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit Account and its 
audit as the Association shall reasonably request.
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association determines at any time 
that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such 
request shall be cancelled.
 
Page  9
8
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2008. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions 
1. 
“Banking Commission” (
Commission Bancaire
)
means the entity, established and 
operating under the West African Economic and Monetary Union Convention 
Establishing the Banking Commission of April 24, 1990, responsible for the oversight of 
banks and other financial institutions in the territory of said Union, including that of the 
Recipient. 
2. 
“Coffee and Cocoa Exchange” (
Bourse du Café et du Cacao
)
means 
the Recipient’s 
entity, established and operating under its Decree No. 2001-465 of July 25, 2001, 
responsible for the marketing of coffee and cocoa. 
3. 
“Coffee and Cocoa Producers’ Activities Development and Promotion Fund” (
Fonds de 
développement et de promotion des Activités des producteurs de café et de cacao
)
means 
the Recipient’s entity, established and operating under its Decree No. 2001-1512 of 
August 28, 2001, responsible for the development and promotion of the coffee and cocoa 
sector. 
4. 
“Coffee-Cocoa Regulation and Inspection Fund” (
Fonds de Régulation et de Contrôle 
Café-Cacao
)
means 
the Recipient’s entity, established and operating under its Ordinance 
No. 2001-666 of October 24, 2001, responsible for the financial regulation and inspection 
of the coffee and cocoa sector. 
5. 
“Coffee and Cocoa Regulatory Authority” (
A
utorité de régulation du Café et du Cacao
)
means the Recipient’s entity, established and operating under its Decree No. 2000-751 of 
February 10, 2000, responsible for the regulation of the coffee and cocoa sector. 
6. 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section II.C.1 of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
7. 
“Electricity Sector Capital Management Company” (
Société de Gestion Patrimoine du 
Secteur de l’Électricité
)
means the
 Recipient’s enterprise established and operating under 
its Law No. 97-519 of September 4, 1997 and Decree No. 98-727 of December 16, 1998. 
8. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
Page  11
10
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, un-
worked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
Page  12
11
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
9. 
“Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative” means the voluntary global compact, 
launched in June 2003, aimed at improving transparency and accountability in the 
extractives sector, and which comprises a coalition of governments, enterprises, civil 
society groups, investors, and public international organizations. 
10. 
“Franc of the Financial Community of Africa” (
Franc de la Communauté Financière de 
l’Afrique
)
or
“FCA Franc” (
Franc CFA
)
means the currency of the Recipient. 
11. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
12. 
“Ivorian Electricity Company” (
Compagnie Ivoirienne d’Électricité
)
means the enterprise 
established and operating under 
the Recipient’s Decree Nos. 90-1389 of 
October 25, 1990 and 98-725 of December 16, 1998. 
13. 
“Ivorian Refining Company”
 (Société Ivoirienne de Raffinage
)
means the
 Recipient’s 
enterprise established and operating under its Law No. 87-FAEP of January 23, 1964. 
14. 
“National Petrol Operations Company of Côte d’Ivoire” (
Société Nationale d’Operations 
Pétrolières de la Côte d’Ivoire
)
means the 
Recipient’s enterprise established and 
operating under its Decree No. 75-744 of October 21, 1975. 
15. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives, and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated March 4, 2008 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
16. “Prudential 
Fund” 
(
Réserve de prudence
)
means the
 Recipient’s entity, established and 
operating under its Ordinance No. 2001-666 of October 24, 2001, responsible for the 
financial regulation of the coffee and cocoa sector. 
17. 
“Rural Investment Fund” (
Fon
ds
d’Investissement en milieu rural
)
means the
 Recipient’s 
entity, established and operating under its Decree No. 2006-14 of February 24, 2006, 
responsible for the approval and monitoring and evaluation of rural investment projects. 
18. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  13
12
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
 
Page  14
13
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
__________
 
