Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB3449 
Project Name 
Cote d'Ivoire: Economic Governance and Recovery Grant
–EGRG 
Region 
AFR 
Sector 
Public administration (40%), energy and mining (20%), 
agriculture (20%), finance (20%) 
Project ID 
P083583 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF COTE D'IVOIRE 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD not applicable  
Date PID Prepared 
October 22, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 7, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 29, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Côte d’Ivoire, a medium sized country with a population of 18.1 million, is the largest 
economy in West Africa and is critical to the overall recovery of the sub-region.
 
Given its 
size (accounting for 40 percent of GDP in the WAEMU), its relatively high income per capita 
(US$920 in 2006 as per the Bank’s Atlas method), central location and infrastructure, including 
the port of Abidjan which is an important hub for the landlocked neighboring countries, Côte 
d’Ivoire has an important economic influence over the rest of the region. With its large 
immigrant population, Côte d’Ivoire has also been an important source of immigrant worker 
remittances for the neighboring countries.  The country is the largest supplier of cocoa in the 
world and has a relatively diversified agricultural economy as well as basic agro-processing 
industry.  Despite its natural resources, however, the civil war in 2002-3 and subsequent years of 
stalemate in the peace process have taken a heavy toll on the economy and social outcomes. As a 
result, Côte d’Ivoire now ranks 164
th
 out of 177 countries in terms of human development, 
according to the UNDP’s 2006 Human Development Report, considerably lower than what 
would be expected, given its income level. 
 
Côte d’Ivoire has been undergoing a prolonged period of political instability since a 
military coup broke out in December 1999.
 
After efforts to promote national reconciliation 
gained momentum, the country was again thrown into turmoil in September 2002.  The crisis 
began as an armed uprising by mutinous soldiers faced with likely demobilization.  It then 
escalated into a full-blown rebellion with political overtones.  The country was split in two parts, 
with the rebel forces (
Forces Nouvelles, FN
)
holding the north and west and the Government in 
control of the broad southern and central regions, with French (Operation Licorne) and UN 
forces acting as a buffer between the two. Several attempts were made to resolve the situation, 
beginning with the Marcoussis Accord in January 2003.  However, progress in restoring peace 
Page  2
2
and political stability, after faltering under successive transition governments, stalled for over 
five years. 
On March 7, 2007 a power sharing agreement (Ouagadougou Accord) was reached 
between President Gbagbo and Soro, the head of the ex-rebel Forces Nouvelles (FN), under 
the auspices of Compaoré, the President of Burkina Faso.
 
The Accord, which received the 
support of the international community, sets out a roadmap for disarmament, demobilization and 
reintegration (DDR), the dismantling of militias, reunification of the country, and preparations 
for elections for 2008.  A new transition Government, with FN leader Soro as prime minister, 
was formed in early April 2007; an integrated command center for the army and rebel forces was 
set up; and prefects for all districts and judges for the nationality identification hearings were 
appointed.  This would permit the start of the cantonment of armed forces, the dismantling of 
militias, the identification of the population and the reinstallment of the prefectural 
administration and decentralization of national administration. Bank support has been limited 
since Côte d’Ivoire fell in arrears with IDA.  Reengagement with the donor community and 
external support is needed to reestablish the conditions for a resumption of growth, provide the 
most basic social services to the population, and support the peace process. 
 
The proposed Grant sets the stage for a meaningful re-engagement of the International 
Development Association (IDA) with Côte d’Ivoire that is sustainable over time.
 
The Grant 
constitutes the first Development Policy Operation (DPO) aimed at supporting the development 
strategy of the Government of Côte d’Ivoire in the context of a multi-donor re-engagement 
process on the basis of the Oagadougou Peace Accord of March 4, 2007. 
 
2. Proposed objectives 
 
The key objective of the proposed Economic Governance and Economic Recovery Grant 
(EGRG) is to support the resumption of sustainable economic growth and poverty 
reduction in Côte d’Ivoire. 
Given the complex post-conflict environment and past governance 
and transparency issues facing the new national government, this objective is pursued first and 
foremost by supporting Government efforts to improve governance, transparency and efficiency 
in public expenditure management as well as to advance structural reforms aimed at 
strengthening governance and transparency in the key sectors: (i) energy; (ii) cocoa/coffee; and 
(iii) financial sector. The proposed 
EGRG is an integral part of the Bank’s draft Interim Strategy 
Note for Côte d’Ivoire for the period 2008-2009. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The Grant would a
ssist Côte d’Ivoire in supporting governance and transparency reforms 
and laying the basis for economic and social recovery.  
Specifically, it would support 
Government-
owned reforms to improve the country’s fiduciary environment and management of 
public resources and advance governance and transparency reforms in the key sectors of the 
economy (energy, cocoa/coffee, and financial sector).
 
This strategy would lead over time to 
strengthened fiscal sustainability, improved economic governance and enhanced transparency of 
State institutions and processes.   
Page  3
3
The proposed EGRG would support the resolution of C
ôte d’Ivoire arrears to the Bank, and thus 
help re-launch its assistance program for the country, including through new lending operations, 
a
reactivated portfolio and renewed analytical and advisory services.  This reengagement would 
contribute to a resumption of the international community’s social and economic development 
activities in Côte d’Ivoire, which in turn is expected to help improve a fragile security situation 
and ease tensions in the region.  It would also assist the Government in moving to the E-HIPC 
Decision Point, paving the way for debt relief. 
In addition, efforts to improve the capacity of the State to implement its budget priorities and 
enhance transparency in public sector resource management would improve the quality of pro-
poor spending and increase the country’s absorption capacity for external resources. 
Strengthening the governance and transparency in the cocoa sector would improve the livelihood 
of a large sector of the population (which relies on these cash crop as a dominant source of 
earnings), including through a greater share of international prices expected to accrue to cocoa 
farmers.  Improving governance and transparency in the energy sector would help improve 
government revenues (which could be used for increased expenditures for basic social services) 
and contribute to more transparent utilization of resources in this sector.  Reforming the financial 
sector would help strengthen the financial situation of institutions affected by the crisis and 
improve the soundness of the banking sector, and of microfinance institutions which benefit the 
poorer and more vulnerable part of the population.  The grant would also help fund the provision 
of basic public services with a high beneficial impact on the poor in the period immediately after 
arrears clearance. 
 
4. Environmental aspects 
 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy grant are not likely to have 
significant immediate effects on the country’s environment, forests and other natural resources. 
 
5. Risks 
 
The proposed operation is of 
high risk.
 The five principal risks are: (i) 
security risk
 stemming 
mainly from the fragility of the peace process, a possible resurgence of political tensions or 
delays in disarmament, demobilization and reintegration; (ii) 
vested interests
 
and political 
intervention
 
in the
 
cocoa, energy and financial sectors which could stall reforms; (iii) 
macroeconomic risk
,
if the government fails to adhere to a responsible medium-term 
macroeconomic framework, including the significant risk of falling back into arrears; (iv) 
fiduciary risk
 arising from failure to suppress corruption or failure of the government to make 
effective and efficient use of the fiscal space made available by arrears clearance and budget 
support; and (v) 
external risks 
stemming mainly from the well known vulnerability of the Côte 
d’Ivoire economy to vagaries of weather and commodity price fluctuations. 
Page  4
4
While mitigation of the security risk falls outside of the direct scope of this operation, it is 
expected that continued international support for the peace process, including through the 
ongoing World Bank Post-Conflict Assistance Project (US$120 million), should help mitigate 
this risk.  To reduce vested interests’ resistance to reform, steps are being taken to support the 
restructuring of the cocoa sector agencies and set the stage for more transparent and accountable 
practices in the financial and energy sectors.  Close coordination with the IMF, AFDB and 
bilateral donors and intensified sector dialogue will help ensure that top priority is given by the 
Government to the reform of these sectors.  The macroeconomic risk is mitigated by ongoing 
close economic monitoring and coordination by the Bank, the IMF and other donors, and an 
acceleration of the HIPC timetable, provided that overall performance is fully satisfactory on the 
part of the government.  Fiduciary risk is mitigated through the focus of the operation on 
measures to improve fiduciary standards, the ongoing PEMFAR and further technical assistance 
and capacity building provided by the Bank and other donors.  Finally, external risks are being 
addressed by supporting the Government stabilization and economic recovery program. 
6. Tentative financing 
 
Source:  
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
U
S$275m
 
Total U
S$275m
 
7. Contact point 
 
Contact: Zeljko Bogetic 
Title: Lead Economist, AFTP4 
Tel: (202) 473-2143 
Fax: (202) 473-8136 
Email: zbogetic@worldbank.org
 
