                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00001062




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IDA-H3500)

                                      ON A

                                     GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 187.9 MILLION
                        (US$297.95 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D'IVOIRE

                                     FOR AN

               ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE AND RECOVERY GRANT




                                   June 25, 2009




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department AFCF2
Africa Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective as of March 9, 2009)

                       Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                               US$1.00 = CFAF 515

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 ­ December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AfDB      African Development Bank
ASTER     Application des Services du Trésor en Réseaux (Treasury Service Database)
ARCC      Autorité de Régulation du Café et du Cacao (Coffee and Cocoa Regulatory Agency)
BCC       Bourse du Cacao et du Café (Cocoa and Coffee Exchange)
BCEAO     Central Bank of West African States
BNI       Banque Nationale d'Investissement (National Investment Bank)
CESPPCC  Comité d'Examen et de Suivi des Projets et Programmes de la filière
         café/cacao
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFAF      Franc of the African Financial Community
CGRAE     Caisse Générale de Retraite des Agents de l'Etat (Civil Servants National Retirement
          Fund)
CIE       Compagnie Ivoirienne d'Electricté (Ivorian Electricity Company)
CIF       Cost, Insurance, Freight
CNCE      Caisse Nationale des Caisses d'Epargne (National Savings Fund)
CNPS      Caisse Nationale de Prévoyance Sociale (National Social Protection Fund)
CNW       Central, Northern and Western Zones
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Review
CPIA      Country Performance Institutional Assessment
CPI       Consumer Price Index
DAAF      Administrative and Financial Directors
DDR       Disarmament, Demobilisation and Reintegration
DGBF      Direction Générale du Budget et de Finances (General Directorate of Budget and
          Finance)
DGCPT     Direction Générale de la Comptabilité Publique et du Trésor
DGE       Direction Générale de l'Economie (General Directorate of Economy)
DGP       Direction Générale de la Planification (General Directorate of Planning)
DPO       Development Policy Operation
ECOWAS    Economic Community of West African States
EGRG      Economic Governance and Recovery Grant
EITI      Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
EPCA      Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance
ERC       Economic Recovery Credit
FDPCC     Fonds de Développement et de Promotion des Activités des Producteurs du Café et du
          Cacao (Development Fund for the Promotion of Coffee and Cocoa Producers'
          Activities)
FIMR      Fonds d'Investissement en Milieu Rural (Rural Investment Funds)
FN        Forces Nouvelles
FRC       Fonds de Régulation et de Contrôle du Café et du Cacao (Fund for the Regulation and

                                         ii

          Control of Coffee and Cocoa)
GDP       Growth Domestic Product
GIDG      Governance and Institutional Development Grant
HIPC      Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICRR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IFRS      International Financial Reporting Standards
IGF       General Inspectorate of Finance
IMF       International Monetary Fund
ISN       Interim Strategy Note
JMAP      Joint Management Action Plan
LDP       Letter of Development Policy
LICUS     Low-Income Country Under Stress
MDRI      Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
MEF       Ministry of Economy and Finance
MINAGRI   Ministère de l'Agriculture (Ministry of Agriculture)
NPV       Net Present Value
NSBD      National Standard Bidding Documents
OCHA      Office of Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
PCAP      Post-Conflict Assistance Project
PDO       Project Development Objective
PEFA      Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PEMFAR    Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PETROCI   Société Nationale d'Opérations Pétrolières de la Côte d'Ivoire (National Company for
          Petroleum Operations in Côte d'Ivoire)
PFM       Public Financial Management
PRGF      Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SEA       Social and Environmental Assessment
SIGFIP    Integrated Public Finance Management System
SIGMAP    Integrated System for the Management of Public Procurement
SIR       Société Ivoirienne de Raffinage (Ivorian Refining Company)
SODECI    Société de Distribution d'Eau de la Côte d'Ivoire (Water Distribution Company of
          Côte d'Ivoire)
SOGEPE    Société de Gestion du Patrimoine du Secteur de l'Électricité
          (Electricity Sector Asset Management Company)
SOPIE     Société d'Opération Ivorienne d'Électricité (Ivorian Electricity Operations Company)
SSA       Sub-Saharan Africa
SME       Small and Medium Enterprises
UNACOOPEC Union Nationale des Coopératives d'Epargne et de Crédit
          (National Union of Savings and Credit Cooperatives)
VAT       Value-added Tax
WAEMU     West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA)



                             Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili (AFRVP)
                           Country Director: Madani M. Tall (AFCF2)
                            Sector Manager: Antonella Bassani (AFTP4)
                         Task Team Leader: Richard Doffonsou (AFTP4)
                         ICR Team Leader: Wilfried Engelke (AFTP4)


                                          iii

                                          CÔTE D'IVOIRE
       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULT REPORT ON
          THE ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE AND RECOVERY GRANT


                                               CONTENTS




Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design.............................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................4
3. Assessment of Outcomes...........................................................................................13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .........................................................18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................20
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...........23

Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..............24
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...................................................26
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR......................27
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders........................28
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................29

MAP IBRD No. 33383




                                                     iv

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Cote d'Ivoire: Economic
Country:               Cote d'Ivoire           Program Name:         Governance and
                                                                     Recovery Grant (EGRG)
Program ID:            P083583                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-H3500
ICR Date:              06/22/2009              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                     COTE D'IVOIRE
Original Total
                       XDR 194.0M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 187.9M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date               Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/29/2007     Effectiveness:                          04/02/2008
Appraisal:             12/05/2007     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              04/01/2008     Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:              12/31/2008        12/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Significant
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                 Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory      Government:                 Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory      Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:          Not Applicable

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory      Performance:                Satisfactory




                                             v

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                                 QAG Assessments (if
      Performance                 Indicators                 any)                  Rating:

Potential Problem
                                                    Quality at Entry
Program at any time         No                                             None
                                                    (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any                              Quality of Supervision
                            No                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                      (QSA):
DO rating before            Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:    satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                               20                 20
Central government administration                                     30                 30
Crops                                                                 25                 25
General energy sector                                                 25                 25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other public sector governance                                         40                40
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement               40                 40
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                  20                 20


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                         At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:             Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:           Madani M. Tall                        Madani M. Tall
Sector Manager:             Antonella Bassani                     Antonella Bassani
Program Team Leader:        Richard Antonin Doffonsou             Zeljko Bogetic
ICR Team Leader:            Richard Antonin Doffonsou
ICR Primary Author:         Wilfried Engelke

F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the Economic Governance and Recovery Grant were to: (1) facilitate the
clearance of Cote d'Ivoire's arrears to IBRD and IDA, which was required to restore normal
relations between the country and the World Bank; and (2) support Cote d'Ivoire in its post-
conflict economic and social recovery.

                                                vi

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally     Actual Value

     Indicator        Baseline Value        Values (from                    Achieved at
                                              approval         Revised     Completion or
                                             documents)     Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :     See Table 3of ICCR on page 16.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally     Actual Value

     Indicator        Baseline Value        Values (from                     Achieved at
                                              approval         Revised     Completion or
                                             documents)     Target Values   Target Years
Indicator 1 :     See Table 3 of ICCR on page 16.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
                                                                              Actual
 No.      Date ISR
          Archived                DO                      IP              Disbursements
                                                                          (USD millions)
  1      06/30/2008           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                297.95
  2      12/31/2008    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory          297.95

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                            vii

1.      Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

The Economic Governance and Recovery Grant (EGRG) was designed in 2007 as a stand-alone
one-tranche operation to address two key objectives. The first objective, which accounted for the
bulk of the operation's resources, was to facilitate the clearance of Cote d'Ivoire's outstanding
arrears to the IBRD and IDA, thereby paving the way for the normalization of relations with the
World Bank.       The second objective was to support the government's efforts to improve
governance, transparency and efficiency in public expenditure management as well as advance
structural reforms aimed at strengthening governance and transparency in the key sectors of the
economy (energy, cocoa and the financial sector).

The large size of Cote d'Ivoire arrears and the substantial governance challenges facing the
government were the result of the conflict and political instability that affected the country
during 1999-2007.       The conflict and political instability took a heavy toll on economic
performance. In 2000­06, average real GDP growth turned negative (-0.4 percent) and was well
below the rates of the WAEMU (4.1 percent) and sub-Saharan Africa (SSA, 4.9 percent). As the
political and security situation deteriorated, external financing dwindled, public and private
investment dropped to 10.3 percent during 2000-06 (from 12.9 percent of GDP in 1994-99), far
below the 20.3 percent recorded by the WAEMU and 18.5 percent in SSA. Private sector
activity was scaled back, especially in industry. The partition of the country disrupted domestic
and regional trade and diminished Côte d'Ivoire's role as a regional hub. Annual export volume
growth fell during 2000­06 to 3.4 percent (from 8.7 percent during 1994­99). However, an
increase in oil exports since 2002 and overall favorable terms of trade (notably for oil) helped to
sustain a positive current account (1.4 percent of GDP during 2000-06). The financial sector was
adversely affected by the crisis, as all 19 bank branches were closed in the rebel controlled
regions (Center­North-West) since 2002, the quality of bank loans portfolios declined in part
because of government arrears to the private sector and compliance with prudential norms
worsened with 9 out of 18 banks not respecting the capital adequacy ratio, six banks not
observing the minimum liquidity ratio, and altogether five banks with negative net equity by
end-2006. Fiscal performance suffered owing to falling revenues and crisis-related expenditure
pressures. As growth slowed and the tax base eroded, total revenues fell while pressures for
defense and discretionary spending rose. Although overall fiscal deficits narrowed to 1.3 percent
during 2000-06 (from 2.7 percent during 1994-99) due to a relatively disciplined cash
management, the country could not comply with most fiscal WAEMU criteria (e.g., basic fiscal
balance; wages and salaries as a percentage of fiscal revenue; change in domestic and external
arrears; the total debt as a percentage to GDP).

Per capita GDP declined significantly, basic services deteriorated, particularly in the northern
part of the country, and the number of displaced persons reached about 1 million. Real per
capita GDP declined by a cumulative 15 percent during 2000-06. The result was a significant
increase in poverty from 38.2 percent in 2002 to 48.9 percent in 2008. The country's ranking on
the UN HDI declined from 154th (out of 174 countries) in 1999 to 166th (out of 177 countries) in
2007, considerably lower than what would be expected given the country's income level. Basic



                                               1

health and education services were particularly affected in the North of the country, where the
public administration was absent for over five years and service quality in 2007 was well below
pre-crisis levels. A large number of children in the North had not attended school since the
beginning of the crisis in 2002. Similarly, health facilities, which reopened in 2007, continued to
function with reduced personnel and service levels.

Côte d'Ivoire was in debt distress with large external arrears and an unsustainable public debt.
Public debt, including arrears, at end 2007 was estimated at US$14.3 billion, or 72.1 percent of
GDP. Of this amount, 27.8 percent was owed to multilateral creditors, 52.2 percent to Paris Club
creditors and 21.5 percent to commercial creditors. Arrears on Côte d'Ivoire's total external debt
at end-December 2007 amounted to US$5.2 billion. There were also significant domestic arrears
at end-2007 representing 3.5 percent of GDP. External assistance was suspended as a result of
the IMF supported PRGF-program going off-track after the eruption of the conflict in September
2002 and also because of significant arrears towards key bilateral and multilateral donors.

The country's prolonged period of political instability and conflict resulted in, and was fueled by,
a deterioration of governance and transparency. With frequent changes in government, political
and security concerns dominating daily life, and the absence of an approved budget often until
mid-year, the standard budget cycle was disrupted and public financial management processes
and procedures suffered. An increasing share of public expenditures (over 50 percent in 2006)
was executed outside regular budget procedures using discretionary treasury advances; some oil
revenue stayed off-budget and weak governance prevented the government from realizing the
full revenue potential of the petroleum and gas sub-sectors; the cocoa sector was heavily taxed,
quasi-fiscal levies on cocoa and coffee were not used to benefit producers as intended, and
vested interests undermined the effectiveness of the sector's institutional set-up and held back
the development of the cocoa supply chain. Corruption and lack of transparency were associated
with cocoa regulatory agencies, the government's procurement methods for some large
public/private sector contracts and the management of petroleum revenues. Also, with weakened
accountability, expenditures increasingly focused on meeting wages and crisis-related
expenditures, including financing armed forces on both sides of the conflict at the expense of
expenditure for the achievement of longer term economic and social objectives.

On March 7, 2007, a power sharing agreement (the Ouagadougou Accord) was reached between
President Gbagbo and Guillaume Soro, the leader of the Forces Nouvelles (the ex-rebel forces).
The agreement, which received the support of the international community, set out a roadmap for
disarmament, demobilization and reintegration (DDR), the dismantling of militias, reunification
of the country, and elections. A new transition Government was formed in early April 2007,
with FN leader Soro as Prime Minister, and distribution of Cabinet posts across the main
political parties. The Minister of Economy and Finance was the only Minister not from one of
the three main political parties, and he was chosen as a neutral candidate who could be trusted by
all sides. It was his responsibility to design a reform program acceptable to all parties. As part
of this program, in August 2007, the government started an IMF Emergency Post Conflict
Assistance program aimed at restoring fiscal and debt sustainability. The Ouagadougou Accord
gave new impetus to political normalization and the economy began gradually to respond to a
more stable environment. The government also recognized that a rapid and visible improvement
in public financial management and governance and transparency in the energy, cocoa and
financial sectors was critical to sustain the ongoing peace process and recovery of the economy.


                                                2

Similarly, re-engagement with the donor community was considered crucial to mobilize financial
and technical support for the government's post-conflict recovery. These objectives were to be
pursued in a political context that remained fragile given the multiple political forces represented
in the Government as well as the slowness with which the DDR process was advancing and the
fact that the national administration had not yet regained control of the entire territory.

It was in this context that the Economic Governance and Recovery Grant (a one tranche
development policy grant) was approved in April 2008. The EGRG supported Cote d'Ivoire's
recovery and growth in the context of a multi-donor reengagement process by normalizing
relations between Cote d'Ivoire and the World Bank through clearance of the country's arrears,
and by supporting the government's efforts to restore public financial management processes and
procedures throughout the country, to effect a fast and visible improvement in the governance
and management of the energy and cocoa sectors (the country's two main export and public
revenue sources), and to restructure the financial sector to ensure its soundness. Since Cote
d'Ivoire was in debt distress, the EGRG's single tranche was provided on grant terms, and the
proceeds were disbursed to: (i) provide direct reimbursement of a bridge loan of US$262.95
million extended to clear Cote d'Ivoire's arrears to IBRD and IDA, and (ii) support budgeted
fiscal needs in the period immediately after Cote d'Ivoire cleared its arrears including future debt
service obligations. The grant was an integral part of the Bank's Interim Strategy Note for Cote
d'Ivoire for the period FY08-FY09. This operation was financed with an exceptional allocation
of IDA resources, and in accordance with IDA's systematic approach to the clearance of arrears
to IBRD and IDA.

1.2     Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objectives of the Economic Governance and Recovery Grant were to: (1) facilitate the
clearance of Cote d'Ivoire's arrears to IBRD and IDA, which was required to restore normal
relations between the country and the World Bank; and (2) support Cote d'Ivoire in its post-
conflict economic and social recovery.       Given the complex post-conflict environment and
governance and transparency issues facing the government, this second objective was pursued by
supporting government-owned reforms to restore the normal budget cycle and strengthen budget
preparation, execution, controls and accountability, as well as advance structural reforms aimed
at strengthening governance and transparency in the energy, cocoa and financial sectors. This
strategy would lead over time to strengthened fiscal sustainability, improved economic
governance and enhanced transparency of State institutions and processes. Moreover, the
operation was expected to pave the way for HIPC debt relief with attainment of the Decision
Point, under both the HIPC Initiative and the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI). As
such, the EGRG was a key part of an integrated, comprehensive and multi-donor approach to
Cote d'Ivoire's external debt problem.

While a key objective of the operation was to support the government's program for economic
governance, the EGRG was embedded in a broader, coordinated strategy for arrears clearance by
the World Bank, IMF and AfDB. The principal difficulty in addressing arrears clearance for
Cote d'Ivoire was the level of the arrears and the limited resources within the government to
address the clearance. At the request of the government, this operation directly addressed this
difficulty by using the bulk of the grant proceeds for direct reimbursement of a bridge loan of
US$262.95 million extended by France to clear half of Cote d'Ivoire's arrears to both the IBRD


                                               3

and IDA (the authorities cleared the other half of arrears with internal resources), while
providing an additional US$35 million equivalent for immediate budgeted fiscal needs.
Consequently, the EGRG also created fiscal space that would assist the government in
implementing activities that would otherwise be beyond its fiscal capabilities.

Anticipated results of the program are detailed in Table 3 below.

1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

Not applicable.

1.4     Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The operation supported measures to improve governance, transparency and efficiency in (i)
public expenditure management; and (ii) energy, cocoa, and financial sectors. Specifically, the
operation focused on the following policy areas:

    (i)   Public expenditure management: supporting the Government's efforts to restore the
          normal budget cycle and strengthen budget preparation, execution, controls and
          accountability.

    (ii) Energy sector: completion of financial, technical and operational audits in the energy
          sector, as well as continuing the process of adhesion to the Extractive Industry
          Transparency Initiative (EITI).

    (iii) Cocoa sector: reduction of quasi-fiscal levies on cocoa production to provide for
          improved producer incentives and strengthened management of rural investments in the
          sector.

    (iv) Financial sector: restructuring of commercial banks with negative equity to stabilize
          the financial sector.

1.5     Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

Not applicable.

1.6     Other significant changes

There were no changes in financing or implementation arrangements.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Program Performance

As noted, the EGRG was an integral part of the World Bank's Interim Strategy for Côte d'Ivoire.
Specifically, it supported the third pillar of the ISN, government-owned reforms for economic
governance, which were considered critical to the government's ability to use public resources
efficiently and effectively to support the country's economic and social recovery, redeploy basic


                                                4

functions of the public administration and restore basic service provision in the whole country.
These actions were expected to be followed by a more comprehensive program of reforms that
the government was developing and planned to present in its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
then under preparation.

There were seven prior actions for the grant (see Table 1 below). The prior actions were chosen
because of their importance to the operation's development objectives and the government's
capacity to implement them. They were directly related to the successful implementation of the
Government's program of improved governance and economic growth. All seven actions were
met prior to the operation's approval. The prior actions, their status, and the rationale for their
selection are shown in Table 1 below.

In the year following approval of the EGRG, considerable progress was made in the areas of
macroeconomic management and economic governance, as discussed below.                 Indeed, the
program of reforms has been deepened and continues to be pursued by the government.

Macroeconomic performance: The economic recovery which started in 2007 accelerated
moderately in 2008. Real GDP growth increased from 1.6 percent in 2007 to an estimated 2.3
percent in 2008, driven by a recovery in oil and gas output, favorable rains and prices for food
and export crops, and the further reunification of the country. The value of exports is estimated
to have increased by 8.3 percent in 2008, after declining by 5.7 percent the previous year. The
current account balance (excluding official transfers) improved to 1.0 percent of GDP. Inflation
rose sharply to reach 9.0 percent at end-2008, reflecting the mid-year surge in world food and oil
prices; however, with prices falling toward the end of the year, annual inflation moderated to 6.3
percent for 2008.

There was good progress under the IMF-supported EPCA program in 2008, except for a fiscal
slippage. At end-September 2008, revenues exceeded the EPCA target, helped by higher oil and
cocoa prices. However, the fiscal space was used for higher current spending related to the wage
bill, gas subsidies for the electricity sector, and extra-budgetary spending. The Government took
corrective action and fiscal performance was close to EPCA targets by year-end. The authorities
completed the year with a positive primary fiscal balance of 0.3 percent. The one notable area of
lagging performance concerned domestic arrears where no reduction was achieved, due in part to
delays in donor disbursements for crisis-exit programs and in budget support, combined with
difficulties in mobilizing funds on the WAEMU market. On the basis of the overall progress
made in macroeconomic stabilization and in implementing other reforms under this operation,
the IMF Board approved a PRGF arrangement on March 27, 2009.

External debt: The government cleared its arrears to the World Bank Group in April 2008
(1.1 percent of GDP) through a bridge loan provided by a bilateral donor, and then used part of
the EGRG proceeds to repay the bridge loan. Côte d'Ivoire was not in arrears to the IMF. During
2008, it fulfilled its current debt service obligations to the World Bank, the AfDB, the IMF and
most other major multilateral creditors. A large share of its arrears was paid to the AfDB Group
in December 2008. Fiscal pressures, unbudgeted expenditures and the fiscal impact of the food
price crisis in mid-2008 prevented the full clearance of AfDB arrears in 2008, but these were




                                                  5

cleared in March 2009. Arrangements were made with the remaining smaller multilateral
creditors to clear outstanding arrears.

Côte d'Ivoire reached the Decision Point under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative in March 2009,
which enables the Government to benefit from interim HIPC relief. While this relief reduced the
amount due to creditors, the country's debt service increased considerably from the token
payments previously made, thereby constraining Côte d'Ivoire's limited fiscal space.
Consequently, funding was made available through the EGRG to help meet the foreign exchange
costs associated with interim period debt service to the World Bank and to prevent the likelihood
of falling back into arrears. The government also reached agreement with the Paris Club
creditors in May 2009 which resulted in the immediate cancellation of US$845 million of debt
and a suspension of 92 percent of debt service payments during the IMF-supported PRGF
program, provided that the country continues its satisfactory implementation.

Domestic debt: The stock of domestic arrears declined from 4.5 percent of GDP at end-2006 to
2.7 percent of GDP at end-2008. A plan for clearing the remaining domestic arrears was adopted
in November 2008, in consultation with the Bank and Fund, for implementation by end-2010.
The modalities of the arrears repayment have been discussed between the authorities and staff,
with a view to ensure transparency and equity (prioritization first for the lowest claims then by
maturity; consultation with creditor suppliers; and publication of monthly lists of who will be
paid). Ten percent of the domestic arrears as of end-December 2008 was cleared in January and
February 2009, and another 47 percent was cleared during April-May 2009.

Public financial management: Progress was made in budget management. Whereas the 2007
budget was only approved in May 2007, the 2008 and 2009 budgets were adopted before the
start of the fiscal year, in late December of the previous year. Also, since the second half of
2007, budget execution statements have been published each quarter, thus increasing
transparency on expenditure use. As some 31 percent of the public expenditures executed during
2007 were extra-budgetary or used treasury advances, after budget approval the government
began immediately to regularize budget advances. By end-December 2007 about 90 percent of
treasury advances were regularized. The remainder was captured during the first quarter of the
2008 budget cycle (January ­ March 2008). The use of treasury advances in 2008 was limited to
less than 15 percent of cumulative expenses excluding wages and salaries, debt servicing, and
expenditures financed from external sources or through the revolving fund cash account
mechanism (`régies d'avances").

Budget execution was brought into better alignment with original targets. Overall operating
expenditures were 6.8 percent below the revised budget figure, and 5.7 percent above the
original budget. Only three Ministries deviated by more than 15 percent from their revised
budgets, in all three cases under-spending and ending up close to their original budgets. The
overall investment budget was significantly under-spent (by 31 percent) due in part to the need to
reduce spending in the last quarter to account for significant extra-budgetary spending.

In addition, the authorities have: (i) rolled out the computerized integrated public expenditure
management system (SIGFIP) to 49 departments (up from 37 in 2007), and otherwise
strengthened their capacity; (ii) designed another system to monitor state-owned enterprises and



                                               6

decentralized entities; (iii) submitted budget execution laws for 2003-2007 to the Chamber of
Accounts; (iv) launched a website to disseminate information on public procurement; and (v)
adopted a time-bound roadmap to separate policy functions from those of execution and control
in public procurement. A Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
(PEMFAR) was completed in June 2008 and an action plan addressing identified weaknesses
was adopted by the government in March 2009 and is currently under implementation.

Progress in key sectors:

Energy: The process of auditing the sector was completed in 2008. This provided the basis for
developing a strategy to strengthen the efficiency and management of the energy sector at large
and improve the transparency of the related physical and financial flows. A financial, technical
and operational audit of the SIR oil refinery was finalized in September 2008. This facility was
found to be one of the best run refineries in the region. The audit also offered recommendations
on how to maintain its competitive advantage and improve its operational efficiency. A second
audit covered oil and gas exploration, development and production                   and provided
recommendations to improve the effectiveness and transparency of the Government's
management of the upstream hydrocarbon sector and increase the revenues derived by the
government and PETROCI(the petroleum company) from the exploitation of the country's
hydrocarbon resources. A third audit, on the electricity sector, was adopted by the Government
in October 2008. Its conclusions were subsequently reflected in a letter of electricity sector
policy. In the oil and gas sector, an Oil Committee monitors energy produced and revenues
generated, and it prepares quarterly reports which are provided to Cabinet, the World Bank and
the IMF.

The government also continued the EITI adherence process after the launching conference of
September 2007. A national EITI Council was established in February 2008, and an EITI
committee was created shortly thereafter to oversee implementation. A work plan was
established and approved by the international EITI secretariat, and a budget was allocated by the
Ministry of Finance. The process of recruiting an administrator to prepare the first annual report
was launched in May 2009. Support for EITI activities is being provided through a multi-donor
trust fund, management by the World Bank, and the ongoing IDA-financed Governance and
Institutional Development Grant.

Cocoa: With increasing pressure from farmers, and a US probe into possible money-laundering,
the President ordered an official investigation into the management of the cocoa sector. This led
to the arrest of the managers of the four cocoa entities, who remained in jail as of June 2009. A
transitional committee was put in place to manage these entities, streamline their operating
expenditures, and conduct the 2008-09 campaign. These developments delayed the preparation
of a strategy for restructuring the industry but provided impetus for deepening government's
commitment to reforming the sector. However, a second, high-level committee was created in
March 2009 to undertake this task with a deadline of September 2009, as well as coordinate the
reform of the sector and define the appropriate permanent institutional set up. In the meantime, a
letter of cocoa sector policy was adopted in February 2009 which details the broad orientations
of the sector reform program.




                                               7

The process of rationalizing quasi-fiscal levies accelerated, with a reduction by CFAF 15/kg at
the start of the 2008-09 campaign, as compared to the CFAF 5.5/kg proposed at the time of the
EGRG as a prior action for the next development policy operation. On the other hand, the
registration tax on cocoa was raised on a temporary basis from 5 to 10 percent of the CIF price.
This measure was justified on the basis of the exceptionally high international prices prevailing
in late 2008 and the extremely tight fiscal position of the government (made more challenging by
the need to clear part of the arrears to the AfDB and support the post-conflict program). The
authorities agreed to reverse this increase for the following campaign, as well as applying further
reductions in quasi-fiscal levies and other export taxes. Indeed, the authorities have accepted, as
a HIPC Completion point trigger, to reduce overall direct taxation of the cocoa sector to no more
than 22 percent of the CIF price from a level of about 32 percent in 2008.

The preparation of budget reports and audits concerning investment funds in the cocoa sector
encountered some delays due to the changes in management and the on-going judicial process.
The agreed quarterly budget reports were launched and delivered for the first and second quarters
of 2008, and the report covering the 3rd quarter of 2008 was completed by end December. The
internal audits of the four investment entities in the cocoa sector were completed and a summary
report has been transmitted to IDA. The external financial and organizational audits of these
entities and of the Rural Investment Fund (FIMR), which were to be launched in 2008, are
expected in 2009.

Financial sector: Four of the five banks with negative net equity as of end December 2006
submitted recapitalization plans to the Banking Commission but only two were approved. Both
of these banks recapitalized and regained a position of positive net worth by January 2009. A
third bank attracted sufficient new capital to eliminate its deficit but it still requires Banking
Commission approval. For the other two banks an investor could not be found, so government
decided to increase its participation by converting its deposits into capital (with no cash
payments), and then submitted these cases for approval to the Banking Commission, in March
2009. The Banking Commission's decision regarding the latter banks, still expected, would
provide the basis for the Government to move forward in the restructuring of the financial sector.

Also, three out of the nine commercial banks whose equity levels did not comply with the risk
coverage ratio are being recapitalized. A new Nigerian Bank, UBA, has started operations and a
second one, Access, has acquired 75 percent of the capital of an Ivorian bank. The entry of the
new foreign banks, significantly more capitalized than the Ivorian banks, will change Cote
d'Ivoire banking landscape. A microfinance strategy was completed and adopted by Cabinet in
October 2008, a financial and operational audit of the National Investment Bank (BNI) was
finalized in December 2008, the actuarial studies of the Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance Sociale
(CNPS) and of the Caisse Generale de Retraite des Agents de l'Etat (CGRAE) have been
completed and parameter reforms to bring the pensions system closer to equilibrium are under
discussion.

Poverty Reduction Strategy: In February 2009, Côte d'Ivoire completed its first full Poverty
Reduction Strategy (PRS), which sets forth the government's priority agenda for a seven-year
period from 2009 to 2015.1 The PRS was developed through extensive stakeholder participation,

1 The PRSP and related IMF-Bank Joint Staff Advisory Note were discussed by the IMF and Bank's Board in March 2009.



                                                        8

including regional consultations across all regions of the country. The PRS rests on six pillars ­
(i) the consolidation of peace and security and the promotion of good governance; (ii) improving
the macroeconomic framework; (iii) job and wealth creation by supporting the rural and private
sectors; (iv) enhancing access to, and the quality of, social services, protecting the environment,
and promoting gender equality and social security; (v) decentralization; and (vi) integration into
the regional and global economy.

              Table 1: EGRG Prior Actions, Implementation Status and Rationale

                   EGRG Prior Action                       Status                  Rationale
  The Government has adopted a budget for 2007             Met    Budget procedures deviated significantly
  satisfactory to IDA by presidential ordinance. The              from normal practices during the crisis,
  Council of Ministers' communication on the budget               with approval of budgets into the fiscal
  has been made public.                                           years and the use of treasury advances and
                                                                  the regular occurrence of extra-budgetary
                                                                  expenditures, so a major objective of this
                                                                  operation was to move back toward budget
                                                                  orthodoxy.
  At least 70% of treasury advances at end-September       Met
  2007 have been regularized.
  The financial, technical and operational audits have     Met    The energy sector is one of the pillars of the
  been completed for SIR. For PETROCI, the                        economy, and it is essential that it be
  preliminary report has been completed and a                     managed efficiently and transparently such
  workshop has been held at the World Bank to review              that the oil and gas sector makes the
  its findings. The audit of the electricity sub-sector is        maximum possible contribution to the
  underway.                                                       budget, while electricity subsidies are
                                                                  gradually eliminated.
  Continue the process of adhesion to EITI, which was      Met    Adhesion to EITI will contribute to
  launched in 2006, as evidenced by: (i) the Launch               increase transparency and accountability in
  Conference held in Abidjan in September 2007 with               the use of oil and gas and provide the
  civil society participation; (ii) creation of the               country with an effective mechanism to
  National Committee for EITI; and (iii) appointment              signal a higher standard to attract global
  of the members of the EITI Committee.                           resources in these sectors..
  The total amount of quasi-fiscal levies for the          Met    Cocoa farmer incomes are depressed
  entities involved in the sector (including ARCC,                through heavy taxation and quasi-fiscal
  BCC, FRC, FDPCC, Bagging) collected on cocoa                    levies, and considerable wastage and abuse
  during 2007-08 has been reduced by CFAF 2.65/Kg,                has been identified in the use of revenues
  from its amount during the 2006-07 season.                      generated by the levies.
  Operational procedures acceptable to the Bank have       Met    These    funds   offer  the   potential    for
  been adopted for the FIMR fund, the FDPCC-                      productive investments in support of cocoa
  Investment Fund and the FRC-Prudential Fund. The                farmers, but close scrutiny is necessary to
  investment projects under these funds approved for              avoid similar abuses to those observed in
  the years 2007 and 2008, as well as the status of their         other cocoa-related funds.
  implementation, are communicated to IDA.
  The five commercial banks that had negative equity       Met    The financial sector is the backbone of the
  as of December 31, 2006, according to the reports of            economy     and   immediate    action    was
  the Banking Commission have presented to the                    necessary to protect deposits in troubled
  Ministry of Economy and Finance restructuring                   banks and avoid a loss of confidence across
  calendars and the auditions of the five banks by the            the sector.
  Banking Commission have been completed.




                                                         9

2.2     Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Factors outside the control of Government:

Terms of Trade. Favorable prices for Côte d'Ivoire's major export products (cocoa and
petroleum) during most of the implementation period of this operation helped improve the
external current account (by 0.2 percent of GDP). However, the impact of the food and fuel
price shock of 2008 caused the government to reduce taxes on food imports. The net impact was
slightly negative for the fiscal balance (0.1 percent of GDP). The high export price for cocoa
(US$3,000/ton in June 2008 and still US$2,400 in January 2009) helped to temporarily
compensate farmers for the relatively high taxation of the commodity and for the limited
investment in the sector in previous years, which led to a deteriorating quality of the cocoa beans
and lower yields.

External financing. New domestic arrears, amounting to 1 percent of GDP, occurred in 2008.
The new arrears were partly a result of delays in budget support from development partners, and
the tightened credit condition in the WEAMU financial market constraining the government's
financing options (though extra-budgetary expenditures also played a role ­ see below). The
constraints forced the government to seek domestic financing sources at high interest costs. The
difficult fiscal situation was compounded by the rising price of domestically-produced natural
gas used for electricity generation, due to a contract which tied this price to the world price of
petroleum. This led to an increasing deficit in the electricity sector and a need for larger
subsidies. As a result, the arrears clearance operation with the AfDB (for which the government
needed to contribute one-third) was postponed from late 2008 to early 2009.

Factors generally subject to government control:

Government commitment. While the reform program was owned by the government, the
government was one of national unity, which brought together former conflict parties and diverse
motivations. Reaching consensus on the reform direction and its vision posed a challenge for the
government and thus affected the speed of reforms, especially in the cocoa and financial sector.
In addition, the significant reforms started by the government in these sectors met resistance
from vested interests that had benefited from the lack of transparency and poor governance.
However, the government was able to pursue the reforms as ownership for them was further
supported through the broad participation in the consultation process for the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP), which took place during 2008 and built on the reform thrust of this
operation. In the cocoa sector, the government pursued its internal investigation of the
institutions responsible for managing the sector, and finally took the bold step of arresting the
leadership of these institutions in September 2008. This represented a critical blow to vested
interests and accelerated the momentum for reform. At the same time, however, it disrupted the
launching of external audits pending completion of the judicial process, and delayed the process
of developing a new strategy pending the establishment of a new structure with the mandate to
begin the reflection.

Extra-budgetary expenditures: The occurrence of extra-budgetary expenditures (0.7 percent of
GDP against 0.2 percent in the budget) in the second half of 2008 related to the transfer of the


                                              10

political capital to Yamoussoukro threatened the agreed macro framework and the public
expenditure management objectives supported under this operation. However, the government
was quick to implement corrective measures to offset the extra-budgetary spending and put in
place safeguards to avoid such spending in future. These included expenditure cuts while
protecting social spending. The government approved a revised 2008 budget to capture all
spending related to the transfer of the capital and agreed to limit such spending in 2009 to one-
half the level incurred in 2008, in light of the significant increase in pro-poor spending needed
under the PRGF and HIPC. In addition, steps taken in early November 2008 to enhance the
transparency of the execution of public works are designed to prevent the re-occurrence of extra-
budgetary spending and to ensure that future spending is pro-poor.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization:

The Ministry of Economy and Finance was entrusted with the responsibility for the monitoring
and evaluation of policy implementation under this operation. The Ministry formed an economic
team under the supervision of the Director of his Cabinet for day-to-day monitoring of progress
made regarding the measures listed in Table 1 and evaluation of results achieved. The team was
composed of the General Director of the Economy (DGE), the General Director of the Budget
and Finance (DGBF), and the General Director of Planning (DGP). The team drew on
government reports and government-wide coordination. The Bank followed up with the Ministry
of Economy and Finance and its economic team through regular contacts with the Bank's
country office and supervision missions. The Government's quarterly reports to the World Bank,
in combination with close supervision performed by the Bank's resident mission, were essential
to measure progress against agreed performance indicators and established timetables.

The M&E information was used to inform the design of the government's on-going reform
program, especially concerning the strengthening of budget control mechanisms, and the reform
of the cocoa sector. Furthermore, the M&E arrangements and their cross-cutting impact informed
the monitoring set-up for Côte d'Ivoire's First Poverty Reduction Strategy. Also, the experience
gained in monitoring under the EGRG helped to fine-tune monitoring arrangements for the
follow-on EGRG II.

2.4     Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation:

The EGRG was prepared in the context of a reengagement strategy after several years of
suspension, clearing arrears and thereby paving the way for possible future World Bank Group
operations. In anticipation of a follow-on DPO (EGRG II), the EGRG policy matrix identified a
set of ten reform measures to be considered, and the results evaluated, for possible follow-on
budget support from IDA. These measures were:

     A budget for 2008 satisfactory to IDA has been approved by presidential ordinance
        before the beginning of 2008. The Council of Ministers' communication on the budget
        has been made public.

     The Ministry of Economy and Finance has submitted the draft budget execution bills
        (Lois de Règlements) for 2005 and 2006 to the Chamber of Accounts.




                                              11

     Less than 15% of current cumulative expenses excluding wages and salaries, debt
        servicing, "régies d'avances" and expenditures financed from external resources are
        executed through treasury advances.

     The Government has adopted a time-bound road map aiming at separating policy from
        execution and control functions in public procurement, on the basis of evaluation of the
        system to be made jointly with IDA.

     Adoption of a restructuring plan for the electricity sub-sector, reflecting the key
        recommendations of the audits and aiming to improve the efficiency and restore financial
        viability of the sub-sector.

     Make operational the National Committee for EITI and adopt a work program of such
        committee for 2008-09.

     The total amount of quasi-fiscal levies for the entities involved in the sector (including
        ARCC, BCC, FRC, FDPCC, Bagging) collected on cocoa during 2008-09 has been
        reduced by CFAF 5.5/kg relative to the amount received during the 2007-08 season.

     Each quarter, the investment projects under the FIMR, the FDPCC-Investment Fund and
        the FRC-Prudential Fund approved for the years 2008 and 2009, as well as the status of
        their implementation, are communicated to IDA.

     The Government has adopted a new strategy for the development of the cocoa/coffee
        sector on the basis of the conclusion of a strategic study;

     Launch the audits of the entities involved in the cocoa/coffee sector.
     (i) The recapitalization plans of the five commercial banks with negative equity,
        acceptable to the Banking Commission, have been finalized and transmitted to the World
        Bank; (ii) a financial and operational audit of BNI has been completed; and (iii) some
        restructuring of the microfinance sub-sector has taken place on the basis of the
        recommendations of the national microfinance strategy.

As the government maintained its commitment to and continued its progress on its reform
agenda, a second Economic Governance and Recovery Grant (EGRG II, US$150 million
equivalent) has been prepared and approved by the Board in March 2009 to deepen the reforms
initiated and to continue to assist the country in its complex post-conflict transition and recovery.
Most of the measures identified above became the prior actions for this follow-on operation.
There were some limited adjustments to take into account exogenous factors not under the
control of the Government (notably delays in the completion of the electricity sector audit) and
the need for more time to prepare a comprehensive and participative strategy for the
development of the cocoa sector, given the significant institutional overhaul of the sector decided
by the government in the second half of 2008 (following the EGRG) and for financial sector
restructuring (see details provided in page 8). It should be noted that the EGRG and EGRG II
prior actions are part of a well integrated and sequenced series of reforms whose implementation
would continue to be supported by the ongoing Governance and Institutional Development Grant
(US$13 million), future DPOs, the HIPC Initiative and the IMF three-year PRGF program. The
EGRG also prepared the way for an investment project in the electricity sector ­ the Urgent
Electricity Rehabilitation Project (US$50 million) ­ scheduled for Board approval in June 2009.



                                               12

3.        Assessment of Outcomes

3.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

The EGRG I objectives, design and implementation were fully consistent with the country's
post-conflict priorities as identified in the Ouagadougou Accord and further specified in the
Letter of Development Policy which accompanied this operation. The program's design was
appropriate to country circumstances and in particular its status as a post-conflict country with a
recent history of poor governance. The operation was closely aligned with the Bank's Interim
Strategy Note, was complementary with other Bank activities in Côte d'Ivoire, reflected the
Bank's global priorities, and was closely coordinated with the IMF program and the AfDB
arrears clearance operation and budget support. Finally, the EGRG anticipated the potential
national and regional risks and identified reasonably appropriate mitigating measures.

Consistency with Government Priorities: The EGRG was consistent with the priorities
articulated in the peace agreement between the major political groups, known as the
Ouagadougou Accord, as well as those articulated in the Letter of Development Policy. The
specific reforms supported by the program were also consistent with the Poverty Reduction
Strategy which was being developed at the time of this operation. In fact, the reform directions
supported by the EGRG contributed and became integral elements of the PRSP.

Program Design: Due to Côte d'Ivoire's fragile security and economic circumstances, program
design appropriately proceeded under the Bank's Operational Policy 8.60 on Development
Policy Operations.2 Côte d'Ivoire received exceptional arrears clearance support from IDA;3 this
exceptional allocation of IDA resources to finance half of Côte d'Ivoire's IBRD/IDA arrears
clearance was warranted given the country's low level of income, very high level of
indebtedness, and limited capacity to mobilize domestic resources in the post-conflict and
reconstruction context. An exception to the arrears clearance policy under OP13.40 which was
approved by the Board was necessary to "address the requirement of the bridge lender to effect
an intra-day transaction, which requires the maximum amount of time within that day for the
process to be undertaken successfully."

Relationship with Bank Strategy: By supporting the full normalization of relations between IDA
and Cote d'Ivoire and supporting governance reforms, the EGRG was a critical element of the
Interim Strategy Note (ISN), which was discussed by the Board jointly with the EGRG. The ISN
specifically identified the areas of reform supported by this operation. Its three areas of focus
were (i) supporting the government in the implementation of the Ouagadougou Accord; (ii)
assisting war-affected populations through community rehabilitation and support the provision of
basic services; and (iii) strengthening economic recovery by supporting economic governance
reforms and transparency, capacity building, and closing the infrastructure gaps.



2OP 8.60 notes that "countries affected by crisis or conflict may require an unusually quick response from the Bank. There may
not be sufficient time or country capacity to adequately address design considerations (such as possible distributional effects,
effects on natural resources and the environment, fiduciary arrangements), or a strong policy program developed with stakeholder
consultation."
3See IDA 15 policy paper "Further Elaboration of a Systematic Approach to Arrears Clearance", June 2007.



                                                              13

Complementarities with Other Bank Activities: The EGRG was implemented in close
coordination with other Bank interventions. Analytical support was provided through the Public
Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR)4 and a poverty
diagnostic, "Côte d'Ivoire ­ Contributions to the Analysis of Poverty". Technical assistance was
provided through a Governance and Institutional Development Grant (GIDG, US$13 million) to
help address capacity and financial constraints in the Ivorian administration in areas which were
critical to the governance reforms supported by the EGRG. The specific support for public
financial management reform, including budget execution, strengthening of external supervision
and public procurement, was crucial to implement key elements of the government's reform
program and provide for verifiable steps towards more transparent and efficient public
expenditure management.           The ongoing Post-Conflict Assistance Project (US$120 million)
provided support for, among other things, the redeployment of the public administration in the
areas formerly held by the rebel forces. Other assistance was provided through a grant from the
LICUS trust fund to finalize the first Poverty Reduction Strategy for Côte d'Ivoire, which
provides a framework for pro-poor spending. As indicated above, the EGRG was also
complementary with an investment project in the electricity sector ­ the Urgent Electricity
Rehabilitation Project (US$50 million) ­ scheduled for Board approval in June 2009.

Alignment with Good Practice Principles on Conditionality: The EGRG was explicitly aligned
with the Bank's five Good Practice Principles on Conditionality. Ownership was reinforced by
developing the program through an intensive policy dialogue with the authorities during 2007.
Subsequently, the Ministry of Economy and Finance coordinated closely with other key
institutions (notably Ministries of Agriculture and Energy, BCEAO). The program was also
coordinated with other key development partners such as the IMF, AfDB and the EC. The
accountability framework was customized to country circumstances, notably through the focus
on the critical cocoa and energy sectors. The set of prior actions was limited to only seven, and
emphasizes sectors also considered priorities by other partners. Transparent progress reviews
have been conducted through regular contact with the country office supplemented by joint
Bank-Fund missions from Washington.

Risks and Risk Mitigation: The EGRG largely recognized the principal domestic and regional
threats to the program and identified mitigating measures to address these risks (see Table 2).
During the implementation of the operation, these risks to the program either did not transpire or
were successfully addressed. However, the operation did not anticipate the macroeconomic risk
posed by the food or fuel price crisis and the global financial crisis. In fact, the global surge in
food and fuel prices led to pressure on the fiscal deficit in 2008, and was a primary factor
underlying the surge in inflation. The approximately 120 percent increase in international rice
prices, and similar increases in other key products, led the government to suspend or reduce
taxes on rice, wheat, sugar and vegetable oil in order to mitigate the already-tense social
environment. However, the price shock had limited impact on program implementation as it was
successfully mitigated through several measures, including higher taxes on cocoa exports. The
global financial crisis also affected the country in late 2008 and 2009. The price of oil fell from
its peak in mid-2008, reducing the value of the government's share of oil, as well as cutting into


4The PEMFAR also includes a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), a Country Procurement Assessment
Review (CPAR), an assessment of the systems and arrangements for budget planning, and an analysis of public expenditure
allocations.



                                                     14

dividends and taxes from PETROCI. However, cocoa prices have remained remarkably robust
(for a full discussion of the impact of the global slowdown, see Program Document of the EGRG
II, Report No. 46167-CI).

                     Table 2: EGRG Anticipated Risks and Mitigating Factors

                          Risk                                              Mitigating Factor
 Security risk from renewed violence in the country.      Outside of operation's scope, but mitigated by the Post-
                                                          Conflict Assistance Project (PCAP) and support from
                                                          other development partners, notably through the
                                                          disarmament, demobilization and reintegration program.
 Vested interests and political intervention in the key   Improved transparency through audits in all three
 sectors of cocoa, energy, and finance.                   sectors, adherence to the EITI, and restructuring of the
                                                          cocoa sector.
 Macroeconomic risk, from a government failure to         Close monitoring by the Bank, IMF, and donors;
 adhere to a responsible medium-term framework or to      increased access to donor resources; technical support
 reach the HIPC decision point.                           related to HIPC.
 Fiduciary risk, from a failure to suppress corruption or Completion of a PEMFAR, with further technical
 make effective use of the fiscal space arising from      assistance for implementation.
 arrears clearance and budget support.
 External risks from bad weather or commodity price       Mitigation beyond the horizon of this operation, but
 shocks.                                                  operation is consistent with policies and initiatives to
                                                          reduce the country's economic structural vulnerabilities
                                                          over the medium term; also mitigated by the prospect of
                                                          renewed donor support on a predictable basis.
 Implementation risk, arising from limited                Capacity building efforts, including the PCAP, the GITA
 implementation capacity.                                 project and support from other partners


3.2      Achievement of Program Development Objectives

The EGRG successfully achieved its PDOs by: (i) facilitating the settling of arrears towards the
IBRD and IDA, which was required to restore normal relations between Côte d'Ivoire and the
World Bank; and (ii) supporting the country in its post-conflict economic and social recovery. In
addition to clearing Liberia's arrears, funding provided under the EGRG also enabled the
government to remain current on its external debt obligations and fund immediate budgeted
fiscal needs including for key social services. Under the EGRG, the World Bank has been one of
the government's key partners in stabilizing the fiscal situation and improving fiscal
management. Furthermore, it helped advance structural reforms in the most critical sectors of the
economy (energy, cocoa and financial sector), thereby setting the stage for higher economic
growth.

In addition to achieving its PDOs and the government pursuing and deepening the reforms
supported by the EGRG after its disbursement and closure, the EGRG met most of the five
anticipated results that were expected to be achieved by the time of grant closing on December
30, 2008, as described in the Program Document. As detailed in Table 3, a few of these results
were achieved with some delay, due to the challenging political context and despite significant
technical assistance provided by the Bank and other donors.




                                                      15

                         Table 3: Status of Anticipated Results of the EGRG

              Anticipated Result                                    Actual Outcome
Budget execution in line with approved        Overall operating expenditures were 6.8 percent below the
budget as indicated by deviation of executed  revised budget figure, and 5.7 percent above the original
expenditures from the budget being less than  budget. Only three Ministries deviated by more than 15
15 percent of the budgeted expenditures, for  percent from their revised budgets, in all three cases
the 2008 year as a whole and for half-year    under-spending and ending up close to their original
periods.                                      budgets. The overall investment budget was significantly
                                              under-spent (by 31 percent) due in part to the need to
                                              reduce spending in the last quarter to account for
                                              significant extra-budgetary spending.
Extension of SIGFIP to cover the entire       The system was extended from 37 to 49 departments, but
territory of the country.                     the process is not yet complete, due in part to the creation
                                              of new administrative units.
Sign off on the Extractive Industries         The decree to join the EITI was signed by the President in
Transparency Initiative.                      February 2008.
No commercial banks with negative equity      Four of five commercial banks with negative equity
without credible restructuring plan under     submitted recapitalization plans to the Banking
implementation.                               Commission, but only two were considered acceptable;
                                              one other bank regained a position of positive net worth,
                                              but still requires a solid recapitalization plan.
Relations with key multilateral creditors are Arrears to IBRD and IDA were cleared in April 2008;
normalized and no new arrears incurred.       arrears to BOAD were cleared in March 2008; full arrears
                                              clearance to the AfDB was completed in March 2009.
                                              Arrears to the OPEC Fund, FIDA, BID and BADEA were
                                              cleared in March 2009. Remaining arrears to multilaterals
                                              other than the EIB/EU are very small (less than US$15
                                              million) and agreement has been reached on repayment
                                              during 2009. The Government has remained current with
                                              the World Bank, the IMF and the AfDB.

The EGRG played a catalytic role in normalizing Côte d'Ivoire's relations with its various
multilateral and bilateral partners as well as with the private sector, thereby contributing to
macroeconomic and fiscal stabilization after many years of uncertainty and at a critical time
when the peace process had reached a stalemate.

3.3      Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Ratings:      Satisfactory
The operation is rated satisfactory. The operation's development objectives were achieved, most
of the anticipated results materialized, and the sustainability of the reforms implemented is likely
over the medium-term. Objectives, design, implementation and outcomes were highly relevant
to country circumstances and development priorities as well as to the Bank's strategy. The
government continues implementation of the reforms in the context of the EGRG II. The final
ISR rated the EGRG `moderately satisfactory' in December 2008 because at that time extra-
budgetary expenditures had been identified and corrective measures were being implemented by
the authorities. Thus, the rating reflected a cautious assessment of the sustainability of the
macroeconomic framework at the time. Since then, the Government has sustained these measures



                                                16

and introduced additional ones (see page 5); also, the IMF Board approved a PRGF program
currently under implementation, the HIPC Decision point was reached, and the prior actions for
the follow-on EGRG II were implemented, all by end-March 2009. Hence, the revised rating of
this ICR is `satisfactory'.

3.4     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

A positive impact on poverty reduction was anticipated as a result of the arrears clearance, by
creating fiscal space, and due to the specific reforms being supported by the EGRG. Pro-poor
spending increased from 29 percent of total expenditure in 2007 to 33 percent in 2008 and is
projected to 36 percent in 2009 based on budget allocations. By normalizing the government's
relations with the World Bank, the operation was part of a broader re-engagement of the
international community, which was expected to help improve the fragile security situation and
ease tensions. This appears to have been achieved, as the country remained peaceful and the re-
unification process made progress, albeit gradual. For IDA specifically, this operation permitted
the re-launching of a full program of financial support, beginning with an emergency electricity
project and a private sector development grant. Some positive effect is also likely to have
occurred with respect to other partners, such as for instance the AfDB whose arrears were
cleared in early 2009 and assistance program has resumed.

The operation anticipated distributional benefits from the improved public financial management
and key reforms in the energy, cocoa and financial sectors. Specifically, efforts to improve the
capacity of the state to implement budget priorities and strengthen public financial management
were expected to enhance efficiency, transparency and accountability in public resource use, and
increase the country's absorption capacity for external resources. Indeed, these reforms helped
pave the way for a second IMF-supported EPCA in April 2008, a subsequent PRGF approved in
March 2009, a further IDA development policy operation, and the attainment of the HIPC
decision point, all of which helped create additional fiscal space for post-conflict reconstruction
and recovery expenditures.

Improving governance and transparency in the energy sector strengthened Government revenues
and created fiscal space to enhance expenditures for basic social services. Robust oil revenues
helped compensate for the reduction or removal of taxes on essential food items when the food
price crisis unfolded. While some of these revenues were used for extra-budgetary expenditures
on the transfer of the capital, the commitment to transparency led to the disclosure of these
expenditures, and measures were adopted in a timely way to budgetize and avoid them in the
future.

The reforms begun in the cocoa sector have helped ensure that quasi-fiscal levies are used more
effectively for the benefit of cocoa farmers, half of whom are estimated to be below the poverty
line. However, cocoa sector taxation did not decrease as expected, as the authorities chose to take
advantage of high cocoa prices to temporarily raise the registration tax, which more than offset
reductions in quasi-fiscal levies. The government plans to retract the registration tax increase in
the second half of 2009 and further reduce other taxes and quasi-fiscal levies (these are prior
actions for a follow on EGRG III).


                                              17

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The operation laid the groundwork for institutional strengthening in public financial management,
and in the energy sector, and gave impetus to a review of the institutional set-up and its efficacy
in the cocoa sector.

The measures supported in public financial management led to a strengthening of management
of budget preparation, budget execution (reduction of advances), and external supervision
(advancing the closure of the executed budget), including through a reinvigoration of given
administrative budget rules and norms. Along with improvements in the public procurement
system, this laid the groundwork for more efficient use of budget resources and pro-poor
expenditures. As a result of the various reforms implemented, a MTEF framework could be
developed and a credible PRSP was prepared and launched in January 2009. The capacity of the
budget administration to monitor execution has been largely strengthened through the rolling out
of the SIGFIP (computerized public expenditure management system) and ASTER
(computerized public accounting system). The approval of a PFM Action Plan in March 2009
should ensure that this reform process deepens.

Regarding the energy sector, the operation, in combination with technical assistance provided by
the ongoing Governance and Institutional Development Grant, has been pivotal in initiating and
accompanying the government along the path of EITI adhesion and implementation, giving the
EITI National Committee a central role in the process. The creation of the committee offers the
nucleus of a new institution for overseeing EITI implementation and ensuring more transparent
management of the sector. The operation also provided recommendations for strengthening other
energy sector entities.

Regarding the cocoa sector, this operation helped focus attention on governance weaknesses in
the sector, which resulted in the dismissal in September 2008 of the all senior management of the
institutions in the cocoa sector. The government has created a new high-level committee to
review the development strategy for the sector and to reform the sectors' institutional set-up in
search of more efficacy and accountability.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

Not known at this stage.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N.A.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating:    Significant

The reforms achieved under the operation are likely to be sustained over the long term. Indeed,
some of these reforms themselves serve to mitigate some of the risks which could themselves
undermine the reforms.      However, Cote d'Ivoire is an open economy exposed to several


                                               18

exogenous risks and attempting to emerge from conflict and recover, and as such is predisposed
to extraordinary endogenous and exogenous risks that could threaten the sustainability of the
reforms resulting from the operation. These risks are outlined below along with the actual
experience and the mitigating measures employed to address them.

Security Risk: Although disarmament, demobilization, reintegration programs are ongoing, and
elections are set for 2009, the peace building process is still fragile and remains at risk of reversal.
Many rebels and ex-militia appear to have retained their weapons. If jobs cannot be found for
these disaffected youth, they may turn to violence to earn a living. Violence could also be
triggered if the elections are not perceived to be fair, or simply if the result is not accepted by the
losing side. While security risks fall outside the scope of World Bank operations, it is expected
that the continued international support for the peace process, including through the IDA Post-
Conflict Assistance Project, will reduce this risk. In the year following approval of the EGRG,
violence did in fact subside.

Vested Interests: Poor governance and lack of oversight in key sectors such as cocoa, energy
and banking have generated significant rents and created vested interests which will resist
reform. Yet these are precisely the sectors targeted by this operation. It is expected that the
gradual ending of the conflict, the elections, the PRSP process and enhanced participation of
civil society, and gains made in transparency, as well as continuous external engagement, will
provide the incentives to sustain the reform process. Vested interests have posed a challenge in
the implementation of this program but there are clear signs that they are losing ground. The
imprisonment of the management of the cocoa institutions is the most dramatic indication.

Macroeconomic risks: Current debt levels are unsustainable and will remain so until the HIPC
Completion Point is reached, expected for 2011. To reach this point, the authorities must
maintain fiscal discipline and keep on track with an IMF-supported program, as well as
implement the HIPC triggers. To this end, the IMF and the World Bank have closely monitored
the government's performance. In March 2009, the government achieved the HIPC Decision
Point and started an IMF-supported PRGF program. These in turn led to significant debt relief
from the Paris Club in mid 2009. Consequently, the fiscal pressures on the budget have been
relaxed somewhat, though important challenges remain. The Government is also committed to a
rapid attainment of the HIPC Completion Point.

External risks: As a small open economy, the country is vulnerable to external shocks and to
any negative impact of the global financial crisis on foreign investment flows, exports, or
remittances. In particular, the Ivorian economy's dependence on commodity exports makes it
vulnerable to the vagaries of weather and exchange rate fluctuations. Dependence on imports for
some of its key food items (rice, wheat and, to a lesser extent, vegetable oil) can also be a
problem, as seen in the food price crisis of 2008. The authorities coped with the latter shock by
reducing food taxes and delaying the clearance of domestic arrears. The oil price spike was not a
problem as Côte d'Ivoire is a net exporter. The subsequent global economic slowdown has had a
mixed impact to date, as the fall in food prices was welcome, and cocoa prices remained
surprisingly high, while the fall in oil prices dampened government revenues. Overall, the
authorities have managed to whether the impact of the global slowdown, though the country
remains exposed to a deeper-than-expected global downturn. The macroeconomic program
supported by the IMF and the implementation of ongoing reforms supported by the Bank and


                                               19

other donors will help mitigate future shocks, and the authorities remain committed to adjust the
macroeconomic program to address possible exogenous shocks.

Fiduciary risks: There was limited fiduciary risk for this operation, since most of the resources
were destined permit the clearance of World Bank arrears under standard Bank procedures.
However, there was concern as to whether the government would make effective use of the fiscal
space provided. Although as indicated above some extra-budgetary spending took place, the
authorities implemented a set of corrective measures to offset the extra-budgetary spending and
put in place safeguards to avoid such spending in the future through a supplementary budget, the
introduction of new checks and balances, the reworking of future public works contracts, and
some reordering of budget priorities.

Implementation capacity risk: Several years of conflict, related emigration, a decline in education
access and quality, and poor governance have led to a reduction in the available pool of domestic
competence. However, the country entered the crisis with a relatively strong human and
institutional capacity, and with the limited impact of the conflict on the capital city, significant
technical capacity remains. The bigger problem is the political capacity to delegate and take
decisions. This risk has been mitigated through close monitoring and support provided through
the Governance and Institutional Development TA project.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating:    Satisfactory

This operation entailed an extensive and wide-ranging effort to ensure quality at entry. An
exceptional amount of preparation and ingenuity was required by the Bank to manage the risks
relating to the timing of the operation, and to ensure that the arrears clearance could take place.
The preparation of this operation, plus that relating to arranging the bridge loan, required a
concerted and cross-institutional effort that went substantially beyond a typical operation.
Although this operation benefited from the experience gained from the arrears clearance efforts
in Liberia, the arrears clearance aspect of this operation required Bank staff to be innovative and
structure a financing package geared to the particular circumstances of the case, making
maximum use of anticipated relief under the HIPC initiative.

The identification and design of the EGRG was based on the then-emerging reform program in
Côte d'Ivoire. The reform program has been further elaborated in the context of Côte d'Ivoire's
Poverty Reduction Strategy, completed in early 2009. Identification and design of the EGRG
was also fully aligned with priorities expressed in the ISN. The prior actions were appropriately
focused, ensuring that they targeted central reform needs in the country. While the operation did
not anticipate the unfolding of the macroeconomic risk posed by the substantial commodity price
volatility and food price changes in 2008 and the global crisis in 2009, the volatile price trends
did temporarily affect the program, though mitigating measures were rapidly and successfully
implemented.


                                               20

The policy dialogue underpinning the EGRG supported reform program was based on a mixture
of solid analysis in the form of the PER of 2003, advanced work of a PEMFAR on which the
operation could draw, and specific work concerning the electricity, cocoa, and financial sectors.

The Bank team worked closely with the government and with other donors (notably the IMF and
the AfDB) during preparation and appraisal of this operation.          This allowed the Bank to
increasingly coordinate its support with the assistance provided by other donors in the areas
covered. The Bank worked closely with the IMF on a number of aspects of this program,
including (i) arrears clearance and monitoring of fiscal developments; (ii) support to the
government's preparation of its PRS; (iii) the Debt Sustainability Analysis; and (iv) the HIPC
process. In addition, while both institutions took the lead in their respective areas of strength
(e.g., medium-term fiscal framework for the IMF, and public expenditure, financial
accountability and governance in the electricity, cocoa and natural resources sectors for the
Bank), these were performed in close coordination and collaboration between the two institutions.
This collaboration was institutionalized in the form of a Joint Management Action Plan (JMAP)
for FY09/FY10 delineating the respective responsibilities of the Bank and the Fund.
Coordination with the AfDB was also very close, with the AfDB relying extensively on work
prepared by the Bank in the arrears covered by the EGRG.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating:     Satisfactory

Bank supervision performance is rated satisfactory. Supervision of progress made under this
operation took place jointly with the preparation of the follow-on operation (EGRG II). The
supervision of the EGRG drew on the M&E mechanisms put in place by the authorities and
assessed by Bank staff during one supervision mission, and through regular contacts between the
authorities and the Bank's resident mission (with the Task Team Leader being in the Country
Office in Abidjan). During supervision activities, Bank staff coordinated closely with IMF
missions and other donors, reducing transaction costs for the government and ensuring program
adherence to the government's development priorities. The close supervision allowed addressing
at an early stage emerging implementation weaknesses as the government tried to deal with the
impact of the food price increases in 2008 and a shortfall in external assistance.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating:     Satisfactory

As Bank performance for both quality at entry and supervision was rated satisfactory, overall
Bank performance is rated satisfactory in accordance with the ICRR harmonized evaluation
criteria guidelines.




                                               21

5.2     Borrower Performance

Note: According to the ICCR Guidelines, if Government and implementing agency are indistinguishable,
as is the case for DPL operations, a rating and justification is provided only for Overall Borrower
Performance, as done in section (c) below.
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government of Côte d'Ivoire's performance during the EGRG was satisfactory as reflected
by its ownership and commitment to the reform program, although the context for
implementation was fragile and complex. After the signing of the peace accord, and to cement
the peace process as well as to facilitate the reconstruction of the country, the Government
accorded high priority to improving economic governance and to strengthening public
administration. The supported measures were strongly advanced in public by the highest ranks
of the Government, including the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and the President. In
addition, the Government improved its coordination with the donor community in the areas
covered by this operation. The consensus was further broadened through the formulation of a
PRSP during 2008, involving extensive civil society participation. The PRSP provides for a
broadly comprehensive framework for continued growth and poverty reduction and transition to
the next operation. Also, stakeholders and civil society were consulted extensively in the debate
and about the orientation of the EGRG. The relationships and coordination with the Bank and
other donors throughout EGRG implementation were excellent and the authorities addressed
most implementation issues on a timely basis, although as indicated above there were some
delays in implementing some follow up actions (whose originally identified implementation
scheduled proved to be overly ambitious).

As shown in Section 2.1 ("Program Performance") and Section 3.2 ("Achievement of Program
Development Objectives") important progress was made towards the government's objectives to
regularize the relation with its creditors, stabilize the fiscal situation, improve the transparency,
accountability and efficiency of public fiscal management, and implement important governance
reforms in the energy and cocoa sectors, setting the conditions for broad economic recovery.
The launching of the EITI process and the Government's commitment to quarterly reporting on
financial and physical flows in the petroleum sub-sector as well as on cocoa-related investment
projects under the FIMR, the FDPCC-Investment Fund and the FRC-Prudential Reserve was
laudable. The decisive action to change management of the cocoa sector was particularly
notable, and represented an unexpected acceleration of the reform process.

On the other hand, progress was slower than expected in other areas.                 Extra-budgetary
expenditures delayed the approval of an IMF-supported PRGF arrangement and consequently
delayed the follow-up IDA DPO. The preparation of a cocoa sector strategy has so far been
limited to a sector policy letter and external audits have not yet been started. Similarly, the
electricity restructuring plan has been limited to a letter of sector policy. Bank restructuring has
also taken longer than expected. However, some of these reforms were probably overly
ambitious given the political context.




                                               22

6.     Lessons Learned

This operation shows the positive gains that can be made in the context of a well designed
program with solid Government commitment. The specific lessons that can be learned from the
success of this operation include:

    -  Given the capacity bottlenecks in the country and the fragile and politically complex
       post-conflict situation, it is necessary to ensure that a Development Policy Operation is
       accompanied by appropriately targeted technical assistance to ensure that the
       commitment and willingness lead to reform results (e.g., EITI). In this case, the EGRG
       was supported by a Governance and Institutional Development TA Project and a LICUS
       Trust Fund.

    -  In such post-conflict situations, it is particularly important to select a focused number of
       prior actions that are deemed essential to supporting the government's broader reform
       program. Such selectivity and coordination not only reduces the transaction costs for the
       government that is burdened by multiple management demands while the capacity is
       weak, but it also increases the likelihood that such focused actions are implemented and
       the reform program is moved forward.

    -  Given the risks and complexity of this operation in the country's context, close
       coordination with other development partners has been indispensable to mitigate risks,
       realize synergies, and improve the leverage in the policy dialogue. Collaboration with the
       IMF was particularly important.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable




                                               23

       Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                         Title                  Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Richard Doffonsou         Senior Economist                      AFTP4
Mourad Belguedj           Consultant                            AFTSN
Zeljko Bogetic            Lead Economist                        ECSPE
Bleoue Nicaise Ehoue      Senior Agriculture Economist          AFTAR
Judite Fernandes          Language Program Assistant            AFTP4
Emile Louis Rene Finateu  Lead Financial Management Spec        AFTFM
Malvina A. Pollock        Lead Debt Specialist                  FINCR
Andre Ryba                Consultant                            AFTFP
Eric Jean Yoboue          Senior Procurement Specialist         AFTPC

Supervision
Richard Doffonsou         Senior Economist                      AFTP4
Wilfried Engelke          Senior Economist                      AFTP4
Philip English            Lead Economist                        AFTP4
Judite Fernandes          Language Program Assistant            AFTP4



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                Stage
                                      No. of staff weeks        US$ Thousands (including
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                        1                             2.74
  FY05                                                                     55.42
  FY06                                        5                          133.69
  FY07                                       45                          259.59
  FY08                                       67                             0.00
  FY09                                        9                             0.00
                          Total:            127                          451.44
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                        1                             0.00
                          Total:              1                             0.00




                                         24

                  Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results


Not applicable




                                25

               Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


Not applicable




                                    26

         Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR



Dear Country Director,

By mail dated June 16 2009, you transmitted the draft Completion and Results Report for the
first Economic Governance and Recovery Grant (EGRG 1).

The EGRG grant, in an amount of US$308 million, which permitted Côte d'Ivoire to clear its
arrears to the World Bank in April 2008, built on a reform program in the public finance, energy,
cocoa and financial sectors.

The report notes the satisfactory implementation of the reforms in these key sectors. The results
described by sector correspond to those communicated in other official documents written and
published by the International Monetary Fund on the occasion of the approval of the three-year
economic and financial program and the decision point of the HIPC Initiative extended to Côte
d'Ivoire.

Therefore, I confirm through this letter my agreement that this completion report be finalized.

Please accept, Mr. Country Director, my sincere regards.




                          For the Minister of the Economy and Finance

                                         and by delegation

                                      the Director of Cabinet

                                         Koffi Ahoutou E.




                                              27

               Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders



Not applicable




                                    28

                      Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


World Bank Documents


Economic Governance and Recovery Grant


   Statement of Mission Objectives (SMO), Economic Governance and Recovery Grant
     Technical Discussions Mission, November 2, 2007
   Project Concept Note, Economic Governance and Recovery Grant, October 23, 2007
   Minutes of Concept Note Review, October 31, 2007
   Project Information Document (PID), Concept Stage, Economic Governance and
     Recovery Grant, October 22, 2007
   Program Document, Economic Governance and Recovery Grant, Report No.41745-
     CI, March 14, 2008
   Aide Memoire, Appraisal Mission, Economic Governance and Recovery Grant,
     December 4-5, 2007
   Aide-Memoire, Preparation Mission, September 17-28, 2007
   Aide-Memoire, Identification Mission, November 5-9, 2007
   Letter to the Government on Arrears Clearance, November 5, 2007
   Minutes of the Operations Committee Review Meeting, November 12, 2007
   Operations Committee Review Meeting, November 6, 2007
   Development Policy Letter, Economic Governance and Recovery Grant, March 4,
     2008
   Financing Agreement, Economic Governance and Recovery Grant, April 1, 2008
   Project Information Document, Appraisal Stage, Economic Governance and
     Recovery Grant, November 12, 2007
   Minutes of Negotiations, EGRG, December 5-8, 2007
   Implementation Status and Results Report, December 31, 2008
   Minutes of Concept Review, EGRG, October 31, 2007


Other Bank Documents


   Note on Execution of Measures for the Economic Governance and Recovery Grant
     (Date not available)
   Note about a Meeting with Mr. Fayolle, French ED and Advisors on Arrears
     Clearance, March 21, 2008
   Governance and Institutional Development Grant, May 30, 2008



                                       29

  Data Collection and Capacity Building for the Poverty Reduction Strategy - LICUS
    Trust Fund, February 2009
  Aide-Memoire, EGRG II, Preparation Mission, September 25-October 8, 2008
  Operations Committee Review, EGRG II, December 16, 2008
  Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRSP, January 2009
  Poverty Reduction Strategy, Status Report Preparation, December 2008
  Program Document, EGRG II, March 4, 2009
  Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC) Preliminary Document, December
    1, 2008
  Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC) Decision Point, March 12, 2009
  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper/Joint IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note, March 4,
    2009
  Interim Strategy Note, June 30, 2006
  CPIA 2008, Country Worksheet
  2008 Post-Conflict Performance Indicators (PCPIs)
  Identification and Pre-evaluation Mission, EGRG II, Transmission of Aide-memoire
    letter to the Government


IMF Documents


  Request for Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance, Staff Report; Staff Statement;
    Press Release on the Executive Board Discussion and Statement by the Executive
    Director for Côte d'Ivoire, April 2008
    Request for Emergency Post - Conflict Assistance - Staff Report; Staff Statement;
    Press Release on the Executive Board Discussion; and Statement by the Executive
    Director for Côte d'Ivoire, April 24, 2008




                                         30

Country Map




  31

