D    _minant of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
C/?, olecG- C--t
Report No. P-4340-CD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 12.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR AN
EMERGENCY COTTON PROGRAM
June 3, 1986
Tis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       CFA Franc (CFAF) 1/
US$1.00             CFAF 360
CFAF 1.00           US$ .0028
FISCAL YEAR
Government       : January 1 - December 31
Cotontchad       : November 1 - October 31
MEASURES
1 Meter (m)                =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km)           =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (mt)          =  2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)             =  2.47 acres (a)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIAT      Banque Internationale pour I'Afrique au Tchad
BTCD      Banque Tchadienne de Credit et de Depots
CAA       Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEC       Commission of European Communities
CFDT      Compagnie Francaise de Developpement des Textiles
CFPA      Centre de Formation a la Production Agricole
CSPC      Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix du Coton
EDF       European Development Fund
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
IRAT      Institut de Recherche sur l'Agriculture Tropicale
IRCT      Institut de Recherche sur le Coton et les Textiles
Exotiques
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
ONDR      Office National de Developpement Rural
SIM4AT    Societe Industrielle de Materiel Agricole
SONASUT   Societe Nationale Sucriere du Tchad
STABEX    Fonds de Stabilisation des Exportations
STAR      Societe Tchadienne d'Assurances et de Reassurances
STEE      Societe Tchadienne d'Energie Electrique
STT       Societe Textile du Tchad
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
1/ The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) at a rate of FF1
to CFAF 50.



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CIAD
EMERGENCY COTTON PROGRAM
CREDIT AND ENERGENCY PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Chad
Beneficiary:             Cotontchad
Amount:                  SDR 12.8 million (US$15 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms
Onlending Terms:         Proceeds of the Credit would be passed on by the
Government to Cotontchad as equity.
Cofinanciers:            France (FAC and CCCE), European Development
Ftud (EDF), and the Netherlands.
Program Description:     The proposed Credit would support the first
emergency phase of a program aiming to reestablish
Cotontchad on a sound financial basis and avoid
the collapse of Chadts dominant cotton sector as a
result of exceptionally low world prices. In the
past years, the cotton sector has accounted for 80
percent of export earnings and 25 percent of
government revenue. This first phase consists of a
set of remedial measures that would permit
Cotontehad to continue operations pending the
preparation of a comprehensive rehabilitation
program, to be based on an indepth UNDP-financed
study currently being undertaken, with IDA as
Executing Agency, which would be complemented by
the studies under the proposed project, . The
proposed program would cover two years, beginning
July 1, 1986, and would finance: (i) Cotontchad's
inputs program; (ii) the improvement of
Cotontchad's management and financial control through
the provision of an external audit and tecbnical
assistance services, training, and studies; and
(iii) support for continued operations and
reorganization of key institutions in the cotton
sector, particularly extension services (ONDR) and
research activities (IRCT). IDA would also be
preparing an agricultural sector project over the
next 18 months which would support a medium-term
restructuring of Cotonchad, as well as help
diversify Chad's agricultural base.
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recpients only in the
of their olfcial dutiea Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bailk authorizaon.*



(ii)
Benefits:                The program would yield the following benefits.
First, for the economy, it would enable Chad to
survive an abrupt and unexpected drop in its
export earnings and Government revenues thereby
helping to avert a nation-wide! crisis with severe
macroeconomic implications. K collapse of cotton
production would also throttle industrial growth,
in general, and bankrupt the domestic banking system.
Pending the recovery of the cotton price, the
proposed program would help avoid economic turmoil
and the consequential political unrest. Second,
for Cotontchad, it would help finance operations
through a difficult adjustment period and
stimulate the company's medium-term transformation
into once again, a viable enterprise. Third, for
producers, it would maintain and improve field
services and allow continued processing of their
dominant cash crop, thereby preventing the
abandonment of cotton production which is
virtually their sole source of money income.
Risks:                   Given the fragile state of the Chadian economy
and the uncertainties concerning the world cotton
market, the project faces a number of risks: (a)
At the production level, there is a risk that
small-holders will react adversely to the planned
reduction of their margins (by the freezing of
producer prices and the elimination of input
subsidies). However, this is not a high risk
because of the lack of alternative cash crops and
the fact that intensive cotton cultivation will
continue to be more profitable than alternative
crops. Cb) At the national level, there are
political risks, but these are acceptable because
of the remarkable progress made by President
Hissein Babre since 1983 in establishing an
effective and stable administration and the
growing support which he has received from the
population. (c) At the cotton marketing level,
there is the risk that world prices will recover
more slowly than currently projected, although
this is unlikely because the price forecasts
adopted are quite prudent. (d) There is also a
risk that Cotontchad's restructuring will not
result in a viable institution; this will be
countered by the provision of qualified advisors,
careful progress monitoring, and the revision of
the adjustment program as studies proceed.
However, the risks inherent in not implementing
this project are very serious. Without the



(iii)
proposed joint financing effort, Cotontchad would
go bankrupt and the cotton sector would be
destroyed. Given the absence of alternative
income sources (there are no other cash crops
available which the farmer could turn to in place
of cotton), this would cause the collapse of
Chad's fragile modern economy and relegate the
country to a subsistence economy with little hope
for progress and high risk of renewed political
unrest.
Estimated Project Costs 1/
Local     Foreign   Total
---- US$ Million --
1. Inputs Program                   3.2       26.3       29.5
2. Audit, Studies, and T.A.         0.1        0.9        1.0
3. Operating Costs                  1.3        7.4        8.7
4. Support to ONDR and IRCT         2.6        1.3        3.9
5. Price Contingencies              0.7        3.6        4.3
Total            7.9        39.5      47.4
mm                mm==m
Financing Plan
Local     Foreign   Total
-- US$ Million
IDA                            1.6       13.4       15.0
CCCE                           4.1       11.5       15.6
EDF                            1.5       12.2       13.7
The Netherlands                0.3        2.0        2.3
FAC                            0.4        0.4       0.8
Total                   7.9        39.5      47.4
Estimated
Disbursements:           The proceeds of the proposed credit would be
disbursed in two tranches as follows: (a) a first
tranche of US$10 million from the IDA Credit would
be available immediately upon effectiveness of the
Credit (expected in August/September 1986); (b) a
second tranche of US$5 million, representing the
balance of the IDA credit, would be made available
1/  Net of taxes and duties.



(UV)
around June 1987 after a review of performarnce under the program, provided
the conditions stipulated in Annex III have been fulfilled.
Disbursements                  IDA Fiscal Year
-US$ Million-
1987      1988
Annual               10         5
Cumulative           10        15
Economic Rate of Return: n.a.
Map: IBRD 19729.
There is no separate staff appraisal report.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR AN EMERGENCY COTTON PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Chad for SDR 12.8 million (US$15
million equivalent) to help finance an Emergency Cotton Program. The
Credit would be on standard IDA terms. Additional financing will be
provided through two loans from Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(!or a total of US$15.6 million equivalent); a grant from the European
Development Fund (US$13.7 million equivalent); a grant from FAC (US$0.8
million equivalent); and a grant from The Netherlands (US$2.3 million
equivalent).
PART I. THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Chad (Report No. 1340-CD) was
distributed to the Board on June 30, 1977. Bank activities, including
economic and sector work, resumed in May 1985 after several years of
interruption due to civil war. Country data are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Chad is a landlocked, sahelian country with an area of 1,284,000
kn2 and three climatic zones. In the northern saharan zone, where rainfall
is less than 300 mm per annum, the dommpant activity is nomadic and
transhumant livestock herding. Agricuitural production is undertaken
infrequently and is only possible in cases and in lowlands during periodic
flooding. In the middle sahelian zone, ove finds transhumant and sedentary
livestock herding as well as extensive rainfed cultivation centered on of
millet and sorghum. Because of the dependence on rainfed cropping, this
zone is particularly vulnerable to climatic variability. The southern
sudanian zone makes up a quarter of the country's area. The region
receives rainfall from 600 mm to 1,200 mm per year, allowing the production
of cotton as a cash crop and cereals, tubers, and groundnuts as major food
crops.
4.        The population of Chad was estimated at approximately 5 million
in 1985, with about 40% in the southern sudanian zone, 57Z in the middle
sahelian zone, and only 32 in the northern saharan zone. Approximately 80%
of the population lives in rural areas, although the urban population has
been growing at an annual rate more than three times greater than that of
the total population (6.4% compared to 2.1%). The capital city, Ndjamena,
is estimated to have about 400,000 inhabitants.
Economic Constraints and Potential
5.        With an estimated per capita income of about US$130 in 1985, Chad
is one of the poorest and least developed countries in the world. It ranks



-2-
at or near the bottom of the low-income economies with respect to life
expectancy, literacy and health-related indicators. Moreover, in recent
years, political conflict has disrupted economic activities and social
services and has discouraged investment. Development is constrained by:
(i) the country's landlocked position, which creates high commercial
transportation costs; (ii) internal distances, which hinder political and
economic integration; and (iii) climatic variability, which leads to
fluctuations in agricultural production. Chad does have, however, a number
of factors in its favor. The economic system is liberal and has produced a
dynamic informal sector. The country is also blessed with considerable
agricultural potential, thanks to its extensive areas of arable land in the
South, two perennial rivers (Logone and Chari) and low population density.
There is considerable potential for irrigation, and in years of normal
rainfall, agricultural production already reaches self-sufficiency levels.
In this respect, Chad is among the better-off countries of the Sahel. In
addition, Chad has significant but under-exploited livestock resources.
On-going petroleum exploration has revealed significant oil reserves in
Chad, although it is too early to assess when and under what conditions
they can be efficiently exploited. There are also indications of mineral
reserves which have not yet been carefully evaluated.
Structure of the Economy
6.        Agriculture, broadly defined to include livestock, forestry and
fishing, dominates the Chadian economy, providing the livelihood for the
majority of the population and generating 44% of GDP. Food crops are the
principal output in terms of value and, in 1985, contributed 23Z of GDP,
while cash crops other than food (mostly cotton) accounted for 4Z, and
livestock and fishing, together, for 171. The sector, on the whole, is
extremely vulnerable to climatic fluctuations. The "secondary" sector,
comprising industry and energy, is relatively weak and accounted for only
about 20% of GDP in 1985. Production derives mainly from six enterprises:
MCT (cigarettes), SONASUT (sugar), Brasseries du Logone (beer), STT
(textiles), Cotontchad (cotton lint, oil and soap), and STEE (electricity
and water). Small- and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs) are still quite
underdeveloped. The "services" sector, consisting largely of formal and
informal commercial activities, generated about 35% of GDP in 1985.
7.        The Chadian economy has two predominant features.  The first is
the dynamic nature of the informal sector which helped assure the survival
of the country throughout the war period. However, the extensive use of
informal channels today deprives the State of an important source of
revenue. The second feature is the dominance of the cotton sector in the
non-subsistence economy, accounting for approximately 80% of export
earnings, 25% of government revenues and 13% of the value of agricultural
production (crops only). The cotton sector is a source of income for
two-fifths of Chad's population and absorbs more than 501 of domestic
credit. Sector activities are organized by Cotontchad, a
majority-government-owned company which is solely responsible for
purchasing, processing and marketing Chad's cotton.



-3-
The Civil War (1979-82)
8.        The Chadian economy reached its peak production level in 1977,
just prior to a devastating three-year civil war. GDP attained CFAF 162
billion (US$157 per capita) that year, fueled by a record cotton crop of
174,000 m'etric tons in 1975/76. At the time, Chad had four domestic banks,
some large-scale domestic manufacturing industries, an estimated 80-100
small and medium scale enterprises, and an active informal sector.
9.        Little reliable data exist from the civil war period, but one can
hardly overestimate the war's negative effects, which included widespread
destruction of property and considerable human loss. Economic activity was
seriously disrupted, leading to a reduction of at least 30Z in aggregate
output. Formal, modern sector activities were the hardest hit, with most
industries severely reducing or totally suspending operations. The
expatriate sector, always quite limited in Chad, withdrew completely. The
banking sector shut down entirely, as did the Central Bank for a two-year
period. Only the cotton industry continued to operate, overcoming great
logistical difficulties, although production of cotton seed averaged only
80,000 tons per annum (65Z of the average production during 1973-77). More
than half the known SNEs were destroyed or temporarily shut down. The
population of Ndjamena fell to leas than a third of its pre-war level of
300,000, and the city was largely destroyed. Political administration at
all levels ceased to function, and public utilities and government services
were abandoned. Much infrastructure and physical capital were destroyed,
disappeared or simply deteriorated from neglect. The road network, in
particular, deteriorated severely, crippling internal trade and producing
economic fragmentation.
Post-War Developments
10.       Hissein Habre, now President of the Republic, took control of
Ndjamena in June 1982. His government has since gained effective control
of the territory south of the i6th parallel, which contains 97Z of the
country's population. In 1983, opposition forces with foreign support
occupied a large part of the northern zone. The continued occupation of
this barren zone has no significant direct impact on Chad's economic
situation, but it represents a constant political threat which discourages
potential investment in the country. Recent rebel incursions below the
16th parallel have been reversed by Government forces.  In the remainder of
the country, the Government launched a program of national reconciliation
in 1983 in a successful effort to rally exiled political opponents and
former southern combatants to the Habre regime. In January 1986, the last
remaining rebel leader in the south rallied to the Habre Government,
raising hopes of lasting political stability in the sudanian zone.
11.       Since 1982, the Babr4 Government has worked quickly and
effectively to reconstitute key ministries and develop municipal
administrations, and has been successful in establishing a core government.
With the restoration of relative political stability, the economy began a
period of recovery, with real GDP growing by 5.5Z in 1983, to reach 78Z of
the 1977 level. Considerable reconstruction ensued, and the population of
Ndjamena rose rapidly to regain its pre-war peak. Economic recovery was
stalled, however, by the unprecedented drought of 1984-85, and is now



-4-
further threatened by a crisis affecting the cotton sector, as explained
below.
12.       The Drought.  The 1984-85 drought had immediate, severe and
widespread effects.  It caused Lake Chad to shrink to one-tenth of its
normal size and dried up segments of the Chari River. Food production
dropped from an average of over 600,000 tons per year in the 1975-80 period
to only 310,000 tons, leading to a deficit of about 300,000 tons, or half
of total requirements. The northern sahelian zone was particularly
affected, creating an influx of refugees to the south. A well-coordinated
international relief effort, led by the UNDP and carried out with full
cooperation from the Government, averted widespread famine and avoided the
establishment of refugee camps through the skillful relocation and
resettlement of displaced populations in productive agricultural zones.
Economic recovery ground to a halt, however, with a 4.5Z drop in real GDP
in 1984. Good rainfall in 1985 allowed food production to recower
significantly, approaching self-sufficiency levels. The situation remains
fragile, nevertheless, because of: (i) the continued threat of drought;
(ii) the risk of a premature return of the nomadic population to
traditional but ecologically unstable areas in the northern Sahel region;
(iii) the dilapidated road network, which continues to frustrate commercial
activity; (iv) the lack of resources for agricultural support services; and
(v) the potentially disruptive effect of the past season's massive food
distribution and of the remaining food aid stocks on normal production
patterns and local market operations.
13.       The Cotton Sector Crisis.  A severe disequilibrium in the world
cotton market caused the world price of this commodity, in dollar terms, to
drop by 40% between mid-1984 and mid-1985. In conjunction with the
depreciation of the dollar, this fall has brought about a drop in the CFAF
price of Chad's cotton exports from nearly CFAF800/kg (F.O.B. Douala) to
less than CFAF400/kg. The hitherto profitable Cotontchad company is now
operating at a loss, with annual operating deficits of CFAF 18.1 billion
(US$40.0 million) in 1984/85 and CFAF 19.2 billion (US$53.3 million ) in
1985/86. 1/ These deficits surpass estimated Government revenues for 1985
and 1986 and are, therefore, beyond the ability of the company or the
Government to support or correct, given market prospects: owing to the high
level of world stocks, little price recovery is expected before 1992 (Annex
VI). The sector, the focus and its implications are the focus of Part III.
Progress Towards Recovery
14.       Despite the negative impact of drought, and continued political
difficulties, the Chadian Government and people have made progress towards
economic recovery. Reconstruction and resumption of economic activities
were facilitated by exceptionally good cotton production and exports in
1/   All 1984/85 crop year figures are converted at the average 1985
exchange rate, and so on. Unless otherwise indicated, all 1986 CFAF
figures have been converted into US dollars at the exchange rate of
360 CFAF/US$ - the average for the first trimester of 1986.



-5-
1983/84. These, together with favorable world market conditions, helped to
replenish foreign exchange reserves and boost government revenues.
15.       Reestablishment of the administration and the growth of revenues
have allowed the resumption of government services on a limited scale. In
the education sector, schools have reopened, teachers are being trained,
and enrollments, in absolute terms, are higher than pre-war levels. The
average elementary school enrollment ratio remains low, however -- an
estimated 30% -- a figure which masks wide variations by gender and by
region. The health sector has benefitted considerably from foreign
assistance. The number of public health facilities has surpassed pre-war
levels, although the quality of facilities varies greatly. In 1982, the
National School of Public Health reopened, and a village-level basic health
care program was launched. Despite considerable progress, health status
in Chad is quite low, with an estimated infant mortality rate of 184 per
1,000 births and a life expectancy of only 43 years. Both the education
and health sectors face severe financial constraints and suffer from a lack
of personnel, training programs, equipment and supplies.
16.       In general, with the exception of the drought year, Chad's
economy has recovered rapidly since 1982. Given a good harvest,
particularly for food crops, real GDP in 1986 is expected to surpass its
197, peak. Because of population growth, however, real per capita income
will remain below its 1977 level. Modern sector activities have largely
recovered. The Central Bank reopened in 1983, and two banks, BIAT (Banque
International pour l'Afrique au Tchad) and BTCD (Banque Tchadienne de
Cr4dit et de Depots), have resumed operations.  Recovery in the subsistence
sector and in small-scale entrepreneurial activities has also been
impressive, despite the often complete lack of public services and domestic
credit.
17.       The resurgence of economic activity and the resulting growth in
GDP allowed the Government to more than double revenues between 1983 and
1985: from CFAF9 billion to CFAF21 billion. New tax measures and improved
tax collection should permit the Government to maintain revenues at this
level, despite the loss in cotton export tax proceeds. Although
expenditures continue to outstrip revenues, the size of the fiscal deficit
relative to revenues fell from 48% in 1983 to 22% in 1984 and 1985. Public
expenditures remain relatively low compared to current needs, thanks to the
restraint exercised by the Chadian authorities, particularly regarding the
size of the civil service. Despite a recent pay increase, civil servants
are still receiving only 60% of their 1977 wages in nominal terms.
18.       Bank credit has expanded rapidly in the last three years, with
credit to the public sector declining to the point where it represented
only 5% of total domestic credit outstanding by the end of 1985. The
expansion of credit, along with a balance of payments surplus (discussed
below), led to a 60% increase in money and quasi-money in 1984. However,
the cotton crisis and the recent deterioration of the balance of payments
caused the growth in money supply to slow to an estimated LIZ in 1985. No
consumer price index has been compiled in Chad since 1979. On the basis of
limited information available on selected commodities, the average annual
inflation rate over the 1979-85 period was on the order of 8-10%.



-6-
19.       Chad's balance of payments, like most economic indicators, has
varied with the fortunes of cotton. The large increase in cotton exports
and the high level of external financial assistance extended in 1983 and
1984 produced surpluses in both the current account and the overall balance
in those years. In 1985, a relatively small cotton crop led to a lower
volume of cotton exports which, at a lower world price, severely reduced
export earnings. At the same time, continued economic growth induced an
expansion in imports and contributed to bringing about a current account
deficit of approximately CFAF40 billion (US$89 million), equal to 13% of
GDP. The deficit was financed by a combination of increased capital
inflows for oil exploration and larger drawings on medium and long-term
loans. The overall balance moved into deficit for the first time in
several years. In recent years, even during periods of reserve build-up,
Chad continued to accumulate external arrears because of the budgetary
difficulties experienced and the statutory limit on the outstanding credit
available to the Government from the Central Bank for Central African
States.
20.       The Chad Government is committed to resuming debt service
payments and has worked with its major creditors to reconstruct its debt
records, settle arrears with multilateral organizations, and begin
repayment on a limited basis of arrears and current debt-service
obligations. The reconstructed records show an end-1985 stock of debt
outstanding and disbuirsed of US$136 million (not including US$17 million in
interest arrears), or a debt-to-GDP ratio of only 21% - among the lowest
in Africa. Debt service was US$7.8 million in 1985, implying a
debt-service ratio of just 14%. The Chadian Government earmarks revenues
for a Debt Amortization Fund (CAA), about one-third of which have come from
Cotontchad's cotton production and exports. Despite the loss of an
estimated CFAF 520 million (US$1.4 million) in earmarked cotton revenues,
CAA's total resources are'expected to rise from CFAF 1.3 billion in 1985 to
over CFAF 1.8 billion CFAF (US$5 million) in 1986, thanks to new tax
measures and increased rates on other goods (e.g., beer, cigarettes). This
level of resources, however, will permit Chad to pay only two-thirds of its
estimated 1986 debt service of US$7.5 million. The Government intends,
therefore, to seek Paris Club negotiations to reduce its 1986 debt service
obligations to the level of CAA's available resources. In addition, the
Government and its creditors must develop a plan to begin settling arrears,
estimated in late 1985 at US$61 million (US$44 million in principal, US$17
million in interest), a portion of which can be addressed at the Paris Club
negotiations.
Government Objectives
21.       With the restoration of relative political stability and the
alleviation of last year's drought situation, Chad is ready to begin the
transition from ad hoc emergency operations to longer-term development
planning. Last year, the Government prepared, with UNDP assistance, an
Interim Plan for 1986-88. which was presented to the donors at a
UNDP-sponsored Round Table Conference held in December 1985. In that
document, the Government identified the following broad objectives:
achieving sustainable food security; resettling the population displaced by
the drought; reconstituting the livestock herd; improving rural water
supply and combatting desertification; rehabilitating the transport system;



-7-
rebuilding the industry sector and exploiting the country's petroleum
resources; intensifying and diversifying export production; rehabilitating
the commercial and financial structures; and providing basic health care
services. In pursuing these objectives, the Government aims to follow two
basic principles: (i) engaging in limited public sector intervention, and
(ii) encouraging private, mostly small-scale and traditionally-rooted
initiatives.
22.       The Interim Plan included a list of nearly 200 project outlines
which require further study. The Government's goal this year is to work
with the donors to define appropriate sector strategies and to transform
this list of projects into a realistic pytblic investment program - one
whiCh takes into account Ch;adls financial constraints (which are heightened
by the cotton crisis) and limited administrative capacity. Chad has not
produced an investment budget since 1975; it will use this 1986 exercise as
a learning process, leading to more systematic investment programming in
subsequeut years. At the Round Table Conference, the donor community
pledged to help build the Government's capacity for development planning
and investment programming.
PART II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD
Evolution of External Assistance and IDA Operations
23.       Before the civil war, Chad received a significant, although not
exceptional, amount of external assistance. From 1971 to 1975, aid
disbursements averaged US$57 million per annum, with the yearly total
rising from about US$11 per capita to over US$20 over the five-year period.
An estimated 30% of this consisted of technical assistance and
approximately 80Z was grant aid. Although the absolute annual amount of
grant aid more than doubled over this period, the share of grants fell from
86% in 1972 to 77% in 1975 as a result of increased borrowing.
Nevertheless, Chad's external indebtedness has remained fairly low and on
favorable terms. By the end of 1975, IDA lending amounted to about 20Z of
Chad's borrowing from official sources.
24.       Since 1968, Chad has received 16 IDA credits totaling US$79
million. Ten of these (amounting to US$30 million) have been fully
disbursed; four (amounting to another US$30 million) are still disbursing;
and two, totaling US$19 million, were cancelled due to the. disrupticn
caused by the civil w4r. Of the 14 disbursed or disbursing credits, six
were for agricultural or rural development, five for education, two for
highways, and one for livestock development. All Bank Group operations in
Chad were officially suspended in July 1979 because of accumulated arrears
on IDA credits, although escalating hostilities had already halted project
activities and led to considerable damage to project assets. The status of
present Bank Group operations in Chad is given in Annex II. Most official
donors and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) also withdrew from Chad
during the war, although many returned in 1982 and 1983, soon afte-
President Hissein Habre gained control of N'Djamena.



-8-
25.       The donor community has since been quite active, contributing an
average of US$117 million per annum in the 1983-85 period, 2/ 90Z of which
was grant aid. More than half of the total (US$61 million per annum) took
the form of emergency assistance, including large amounts of food aid;
US$11 million per annum consisted of budget support (mostly from France and
the US) and US$45 million per annum was project-related development
assistance, comprising the entirety of Chad's development budget. Key
areas of intervention have been: reestablishment of the administration
(France); technical assistance to ministries (France, UN); road
rehabilitation (France, EDF, US, Italy); non-cotton agricultural
development (US, EDF, France, UN, Switzerland); cotton production (France,
EDF); livestock development (France, EDF); health planning and care (US,
France, EDF, UN); and drought relief (US,UN). NGOs: have also been very
active in Chad's relief and development efforts through small, independent
projects. In addition official donors have channeled iunds through NGOs
during periods when, or in areas where, Chad's own administrative capacity
was particularly weak. The proliferation of donor and NGO activities
following the war has accentuated the need for improved aid coordination --
a problem which was raised at the Donors' Round Table Conference late last
year.
Relations with the IMF
26.       In September 1985, Chad purchased SDR 7.0 million under the
compensatory financing facility in respect of a merchandise export
shortfall. This .hortfall was largely due to the serious drought in
1983/84 which adversely affected cotton production. In 1985, Chad also
began discussions with the Fund on a possible adjustment program that could
be supported by the Fund. In February 1986, a Fund mission conducted
Article IV consultation discussions with Chad and continued discussions on
a possible Fund supported program. At this time, the dialogue on an
adjustment program is still actively continuing. An appropriate program
could be supported with the resources of the Structural Adjustment
Facility. Under this Facility, Chad would be able to make drawings of 202,
13.5%, and 13.5% of its quota over the next three years (Chad's quota in'
the Fund is SDR 30.6 million).- During the last two years, Chad has also
received several technical assistance missions from the Fund. These
include a resident general fiscal advisor, who has been in plac,e since June
1985, for a two-year period, and a resident advisor in the area of domestic
and external debt for one year from August 1985.
Bank Group Strategy and Future Operations
27.       Bank efforts to resume IDA activities in 1982 and 1983 were
foiled by renewed hostilities, although periodic supervision missions were
undertaken. In 1983, the suspended projects were redesigned to fund
priority activities in agriculture, education and institution building.
Disbursements on these redesigned projects did not resume until September
1984, when Chad made its first payment on a plan to settle US$1.9 million
2/   Using the 1984 average exchange rate of 437 CFAF/US$.



-9-
in IDA arrears. By May 1985, the arrears situation was settled, paving the
way for new IDA lending. An identification mission in October 1985 began
to outline the Bank's strategy in Chad and also recognized the severity of
the impending financial crisis in the cotton sector.
28.       The Bank's current strategy supports the objectives of Chad's
Interim Plan (para. 21), and focuses on helping to coordinate activities
within the Government's priority program related to: (i) achieving
sustainable food security; (ii) overcoming the cotton crisis; (iii)
rehabilitating and Louroving essential infrastructure, especially
reconstruction and main:trance of the road network; (iv) diversifying
production, especially by increasing offtake in the livestock sector and
exploiting oil resources; and (v) strengthening administrative, economic
management, and policy analysis capabilities through institution building.
These goals will be pursued through policy dialogue, lending, and economic
and sector work in the transport, agriculture, petroleum, and education
sectors, as well as through intervention in the critical cotton subsector.
In addition, the Bank has agreed to take the lead in coordinating major
donor assistance for transport, petroleum and cotton. Missions in February
and March 1986 appraised projects in transport, agricultural rehabilitation
and the one proposed here, while petroleum and education activities are in
the process of identification. The operations proposed for these sectors
are intended to fit into "sectoral action programs" which have been defined
to take into account Chad's priority needs as well as constraints. These
action programs (except the cotton program, which is covered in Part IV)
are briefly described below.
29.       The Road Transport Sector Action Program.  As part of a five-year
comprehensive transport program, the Bank will coordinate donor efforts to
rehabilitate existing roads and eliminate key bottlenecks in the road
network; lay the foundation for routine and periodic road maintenance, to
be financed increasingly from domestic resources; help finance maintenance
operations over an extended period; assist in establishing an efficient,
competitive transport industry; and strengthen the Government's
institutional capacity for planning, maintenance, and supervision in the
transport sector. A proposed emergency Highway Maintenance Project
scheduled to begin in FY86 will complement and coordinate efforts
undertaken by other donors and will include: (i) equipment and recurrent
cost financing for maintenance of 2,000 km of roads over a two-year period;
(ii) rehabilitation of several critical road links; (iii) provision of
ferries and reconstruction of access ramps; (iv) technical assistance to
transport institutions; and (v) resources for follow-up studies on road
rehaDilitation, civil aviation, and the transport industry.
30.       The Agricultural Sector Action Program.  An agricultural
rehabilitation project is planned for FY87 primarily consisting of: Mi)
technical assistance to help define development policies and implementation
strategies in areas such as research and seed production, extension and
training, and rural-engineering and agricultural planning; (ii) pilot
schemes for small-holder crop production using supplementary irrigation
(i.e., natural wadis and appropriate riverside sites with pumped water);
(iii) a national scheme for organizing locally-autonomous maintenance of
rural water points; and (iv) important subsector studies of crop
diversification potential, rice production strategies, irrigation potential



- 10 -
and national water licensing authority, livestock processing and marketing,
soil conservation and afforestation, and rural credit needs. Together
these actions would lead to a sector study in 1987 and an Agricultural
Sector Project in FY 1988.
31.       The Petroleum Development Action Program.  The Bank is currently
revising and updating a 1983 study of petroleum potential in Chad to
analyze the costs and benefits of alternative options for petroleum
development and identify a project suitable for Bank Group financing. The
draft final report has been received in May 1986 and is being reviewed.
The project components will be specified following Bank's review of the
report. Any eventual petroleum project would require a large amounr of
cofinancing, the active participation 6f the private sector, and technical
assistance to strengthen the Government's management of the sector.
32.       The Education/Training Sector Action Program.  The program for
this sector has three components: (i) to mount (possibly under UNDP
financing) a training program aimed at increasing efficiency in the
Ministry of Education and possibly in the Human Resources Division of the
Ministry of Planning; (ii) to provide operational training in the sectors
identified as top priority for the reconstruction of the country; and (iii)
to prepare, on the basis of sector work to be conducted in FY87, a project
aimed at restoring the basic education system and developing flexible
training formulae in order to respond speedily to emerging employment
needs, especially in the productive sectors.
PART III.  THE COTTON SECTOR
A. Background
33.       Cotton is produced throughout the sudanian zone in Chad,
particularly in the western districts (see map). Production was introduced
in 1928 by mandate of the colonial authorities, which obliged all farmers
in the south to cultivate about 1/2 ha. In 1958-60, a cotton production
intensification program was undertaken by the Govern ent with assistance
from FAC, and this was supplemented in 1965/66 with assistance from EDF.
The cooperation among these three parties led to the implementation of a
"cotton plan" during 1972-77 which, in turn, gave way to the on-going
long-term program for the integrated agricultural development of the
southern region. Despite its broad title, the program focused primarily on
improving the efficiency of cotton production, although since 1982 some
efforts have been made to improve food production.
34.       As previously noted (para. 7), cotton plays a dominant role in
Chad in terms of its contribution to the market economy, export earnings
and government revenue. Furthermore, nearly 650,000 people are actively
engaged in cotton production, from which each derives about CFAF15,000
(US$42) per year. The activities associated with cotton production, such
as ginning, and to a lesser extent oil extraction and textile
mtmufacturing, account for more than one-third of national industrial
production. Last but not least, the cotton sector has been a major source
of funding for the Debt Amortization Fund (CAA). For example, in 1985, the
CAA received 42% of its revenues from this source, consisting of: (i) a



- 11 -
special levy on cotton exports; (ii) special taxes on oil and soap; and
(iii) guarantee fees paid by Cotontchad.
35.       Chad's cotton is of the "medium staple" variety and good in
quality. Normally, Chad accounts for less than 1% of world output and, as
a small exporter, is a price taker on the world market.
36.       There is a paucity of agricultural statistics in Chad. Although
information on cotton is better than for the sector as a whole, the
sector-wide deficiencies hinder the analysis of cotton itself - its place
in the sector, its competition with other crops, etc.   The collection of
agricultural statistics is the responsibility of the national extension
service (ONDR, para. 53), whose agents are primarily concerned with cotton;
this task was adversely affected by the civil war. Correcting this
situation by strengthening ONDR's statistical unit is among the priorities
of the Government. Until this is achieved and produces results, all
agricultural statistics should be interpreted with caution.
B. Production Environment
Area and Yields
37.       The cotton producing area in Chad has diminished since
independence: from 1962 to 1975 it varied around 300,000 ha, and since then
it has been reduced to an estimated 148,000 ha. This reduction is
attributable to: (i) technical advances affecting yields; (ii) relative
stagnation in the producer price (raised from 80 CFAF/kg to 100 CFAF/kg
since 1983), which made traditional methods of cultivation only marginally
profitable; and (iii) a conscious decision by Cotontchad to limit the
production area starting in 1980. About two-thirds of cotton production is
based on intensive production techniques, involving the use of
insecticides, chemical fertilizers and, in some instances, animal traction.
Producers receive these chemical inputs on credit, depending on their
expected area of intensive cultivation. They repay the credits when their
cotton is marketed, based on a "per hectare formula" which covers the
combined costs of the insecticides and fertilizers, minus subsidies. The
sibsidization rate of these inputs in recent years has been approximately
50%.
38.       Intensive cultivation expanded steadily after the introduction of
chemical inputs in 1960 up until 1979, when it reached 100,000 ha, or 56%
of the total area devoted to cotton. It then dropped significantlv as a
result of political instability and hostilities in the sudanian zone,
recovering only after 1982. An estimated 95,000 ha were under intensive
cultivation in 1985/86, representing 64% of the area planted to cotton.
39.       The adoption of intensive production techniques has substantially
raised cotton yields. In the 1975-81 period, seed cotton yields averaged
about 500 kg/ha. This output level was surpassed in 1982 and 1983 when
yields rose to 741 kg/ha and 902 kg/ha, respectively, levels which were
similar to those of other West African countries. Chad's estimated yield
for 1985/86 is around 700 kg/ha, which is lower than the average yield for
West Africa in 1984/85 of 1,080 kg/ha. Increasing use of modern inputs has
unquestionably raised the productivity ol cotton cultivation in Chad.



- 12 -
Nevertheless, the level of fertilizer application has been reexamined in
light of the current financial crisis in the sector, and the level proposed
for the 1986/87 season is lower than in recent years. The optimum use of
inputs will be reviewed for subsequent seasons on the basis of the findings
of the Bank-cotton sector study and the experience of the 1986/87 season.
40.       Increased yields have been largely offset by shrinking acreage.
Total production has been erratic, with a record high of 174,000 tons in
1975/76 and a second peak of 158,000 tons in 1983/84. Due to cutbacks in
the production area and lower yields, production in the 1985/86 crop year
was only 99,000 tons. Excluding the abnormally low production levels of
the war years and the peaks cited, the overall trend in production has been
slightly upward. There have been two recent developments concerning cotton
production: (i) research to improve yields for food crops grown in
rotation with cotton; and (ii) consolidation of cotton cultivation in the
ecologically most favorable zones, which permitted Cotontchad to make an
initial reduction in the number of ginneries from 22 to 17, with a
concomitant reduction in production costs. Subsequent re-examination
reduced this to 13 and, with the opening of a modern ginnery, to five for
1986/87. These operations are being reviewed under the cotton sector study
in progress.
Production Assistance and Incentives
41.       The intensive production program financed by Cotontchad, the FAC
and the EDF, is important for continued high levels of cotton output in
Chad. Fertilizer application involves inorganic compounds and urea. For
pest management, cotton seed is treated before distribution and the fields
are sprayed during cultivation. ULV sprayers were introduced in 1973 and,
by 1985, had totally replaced traditional methods. Use of animal traction
has declined as a result of the war. Equipment for animal traction was
available at subsidized prices until 1980, when SIMAT, the supplying
:parastatal, was forced to close down, reopening only last year.
42.       There are few other Government actions which support cotton
production. Agricultural credit is not formally organized and, with the
exception of the credit extended under the intensive production program,
farmers must rely on traditional, informal credit sources. Extension
services deteriorated severely during the hostilities, with all training
and follow-up activities suspended entirely for nearly four years. The
ONDR is now operating, but is comparatively weak due to caliber of staff,
lack of training, and inadequate remuneration and support.
43.       The orice of cotton is a major determinant of production,
although this was not adequately recognized in past policy-making. Several
studies provide evidence that relative prices influence to a considerable
extent the level of cotton production vis a vis the main competing crops
(groundnuts, cereals, and tubers). Yet, whereas all cotton is purchased by
Cotontchad at prices fixed at the beginning of the season, the prices of
food crops fluctuate with the market. There is also evidence that cotton
producers are responsive to changes in absolute prices; yet producer prices
were kept unchanged for extended periods. The nominal price of seed cotton
improved by 20% between 1981 and 1985, but the financial margin remained
low in real terms. Although this has influenced the adoption rate for



- 13 -
intensive technology, cotton has nonetheless been generally more profitable
than the main competing crops. The margin varies considerably, as food
crop prices have fluctuated over the years. According to a study in
1985/86, net returns per man day of comparable crops were as follows:
CFAF
Cotton, traditional method               324
Cotton, intensive method                 550
Sorghum                                  314
Rice, traditional method                 240
Groundnuts (marketed locally)            503
Although at the micro level food crops are sometimes competitive with
cotton, severe mark:eting constraints (particularly, Chad's isolation,
limited neighboring markets, and poor transportation infrastructure) make
large-scale production of food crops for cash untenable. The importance of
cotton as a guaranteed source of small-farmer income can be demonstrated
by: (i) the rate of adoption of intensive technology despite restricted
financial margin; and (ii) continued intensive production throughout five
years of disruptive civil war and drought.
Marketing and Processing
44.       Seed cotton is processed in ginneries belonging to and operated
by Cotontchad. The recent ginning yields range from 36 to 38%, slightly
below the West and Central African average. The cotton seed by-product is
either burned as fuel or crushed to produce oil. The existing oil mill
also processes groundnuts and has a total crushing capacity of 60,000 tons.
Most of the cotton lint is exported. About 1,500 tons, equaling 4% of the
total output, are sold to Chad's only textile mill, STT, at a preferential
price.   Principal export customers are Portugal (which, in 1984/85,
imported nearly 40Z of Chad's exports), Germany, Spain and France.
45.       Chad's landlocked nature obviously reduces its competitiveness on
export markets. Its main export routes all cover over 2,000 km to the sea,
and include: (i) via Cameroon, i.e., from Chad to Ngaoundere by road, and
from Ngaoundere to Douala by rail. The carrying capacity of this route is
about 90,000 tons, although limited storage space at Douala is a major
disadvantage; (ii) the transequatorial route, i.e., from Chad to Bangui by
road, from Bangui to Brazzaville by river, and from Brazzaville to
Pointe-Noire by rail. Although the longest route, this route is also the
most economical. Its carrying capacity, however, is only 20,000 tons and
serious bottlenecks occur at Pointe-Noire; (iii) via Nigeria, i.e., from
Chad to Maiduguri by road, and then to Lagos or Port Harcourt by rail.
This route is the shortest, but it is no longer used due to prolonged
closings of the Chad/Nigeria border and serious backlogs at Nigerian ports.
C. Main Institutions
46.       In addition to Cotontchad, the main institutions involved in the
cotton sector are: the Cotton Stabilization Fund (CSPC); the Rural
Development Agency (ONDR); the Cotton Research Center (IRCT-Tchad); and the
French Cotton Development Company (CFDT). The activities of these key



- 14 -
institutions and their interrelationships are briefly reviewed below are
suuarized in a chart in Annex IV.
Cotontchad
47.       Cotontchad is a majority-government-owned company, established in
1971. As of March 31, 1986, the company's capital amounted to CFAF 3.8
billion (about US$11 million), shared as follows: CSPC 392, Central
Government 36Z, CFDT 17%, the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique 2Z, and the local commercial banks 62 (BTCD 3.02, BICIT 1.5%,
BIAT 1.5Z). Cotontchad serves as the Government's main instrument in the
cotton sector. The company currently employs about 2,000 people, of which
200 are located at the head office in NdjAmena. There are four branch
offices: one in Moundou, which is the center for technical operations, one
in Paris, and two smaller ones in Bangui and Pointe Noire. A detailed
organizational chart of Cotontchad is provided in Annex V.
48.       A recent agreement between the Government and Cotontchad
(November 1, 1985) defines the company's obligations for the next ten
years. According to that agreement, Cotontchad is responsible for
purchasing, processing and marketing cotton produced in Chad. The producer
price of seed cotton is set by the Government on a yearly basis (no later
than the planting period in June), after consultations with CSPC.
Cotontchad is authorized to retain 20% of its operating profits; the
remaining 802 are credited to CSPC. Operating losses are, in principle,
covered by CSPC. Cotontchad pays taxes on exported cotton lint (CFAF
76,770 per ton), indirect taxes, and taxes on profits; in addition, it pays
levies to ONDR and contributes to the Debt Amortization Fund (CAA).
49.       Cotontchad performs a variety of specialized services, including
supplying production inputs, coordinating extension services, purchasing
cotton seed, processing seed into lint and marketing the outputs locally
and internationally. In addition, it has also been the executing agency
for feeder road construction and maintenance in the sudanian zone. It
supplies modern inputs at subsidized rates (about 502 at present) to
farmers as interest-free loans, although Cotontchad pays interest to local
banks for these credits. A "standard package per hectare"; is supplied,
with the cost of the subsidy borne by CSPC and Cotontchad. Recently, it
was agreed that full cost-recovery on inputs would be reached by the
1987/88 crop season (para. 74). Since 1979, Cotontchad has also been
processing cotton seed into oil and soap, marketing these products along
with other by-products. According to its statutes, Cotontchad can engage
In other production activities in the cotton zone. It is now processing
groundnuts into oil, but at an insignificant level compared to cotton lint
processing and marketing.
50.       Prior to 1984, Cotontchad had operating surpluses except during
the civil war years of 1978/79 and 1979/80. Until 1984, Chad's production
costs for cotton were generally below the average for West Africa, despite
the disadvantages of Chad's landlocked situation and poor road network,
which inflated transport costs. (Transport costs are approximately 20Z of
production costs and are more than double the transport costs of other West
African cotton exporters.) In 1984/85, Chad"s production costs rose
sharply, to among the highest in West Africa, and remained high in 1985/86.



- 15 -
This cost inflation vas largely influenced by: i) increased taxation by
Central Government with total taxes rising by 270Z between 1982/83 and
1984/85 (with no provisions for price stabilization); ii) increased levels
of financing by Cotontchad for fertilizers and pest;icides (with subsidies
maintained at 50% and no contribution from Government); iii) extended debt
burden (with no support from Government); iv) expanded investments
(frequently imprudent and with influence exogenous to Cotontchad's
management); v) outmoded management controls; and vi) delayed
reorganization of Cotontchad (number of ginneries, operating zones, and
personnel reduction). These influences were compounded by declining
production caused by the drought situation in 1983/84 leaving .Cotontchad
with no reserves to counter the sharp decline in world cotton prices in
1985.
CSPC
51.       CSPC, the Cotton Stabilization Fund, is a public agency,
established in 1968 under the control of the Ministry of Finance. Its
Board of Directors has nine members, with the Minister of Economy and Trade
as President and the Director General of Cotontchad as a member. CSPC's
financial resources come from Cotontchad, which automatically transfers 80%
of any operating surplus to the fund. CSPC's main objectives are: (i) to
guarantee producer prices by funding any operating loss incurred by
Cotontchad; and (ii) to support actions aimed, directly or indirectly, at
promoting and developing cotton cultivation (e.g. input and equipment
supply and subsidization).
52.       The CSPC has had weak management, and a portion of the funds
received from Cotontchad have been diverted to Government activities
unrelated to cotton. Between 1971/72 and 1983/84, Cotontchad transferred a
cumulative CFAF 20.8 billion (US$60 million) to CSPC. Yet CSPC was unable
to cover Cotontchad's operating losses in any of the fiscal years 1978/79
(CFAF 0.9 billion), 1979/80 (CFAF 4.6 billion) and 1984/85 (CFAF 18.1
billion). CSPC has devoted its resources, rather, to: subsidizing the
activities of ONDR, IRCT and the intensification program; investing in
local companies such as SONASUT, Cotontchad, STAR, and SIMAT; and financing
its day-to-day activities (CFAF 105 million in 1985). During the war,
because of the closing of CSPC's office in Ndjamena, Cotontchad took
effective control of the CSPC account, not only crediting it, but also
allocating expenditures. Despite the reopening of CSPC's Ndjamena office,
Cotontchad continues to exercise these functions, highlighting the need to
re-examine the significance of CSPC's role in the cotton sector.
ONDR
53.       The Office National du Developpement Rural (ONDR) is a parastatal
organization responsible for national extension services, including
training, production supervision, input distribution, credit operations,
agricultural statistics and implementation of several development projects.
The ONDR is attached to the Ministry of Agriculture and works in liaison
with the research, extension, and training departments through regional
directorates in the sudanian and sahelian zones. ONDR has a staff of about
1,700 of which 1,300 are stationed in the sudanian zone, working
predominantly on cotton production. Cotontchad provides considerable



- 16 -
financial assistance, inputs and organizational back-up, and, extension
services in the sudanian zone are more effective than in the sahelian zone.
Nonetheless, due to inadequate planning, coordination, and supervision,
ONDR's impact is weaker than it need be.
54.       ONDR has traditionally been financed primarily through a levy .of
CFAF 12/kg on exported cotton lint. This has been supplemented by grant
aid from FAC and EDP (totaling CFAF 140 million in 1985/86, or 15Z of total
resources), in addition to FAC funds for technical assistance equalling
about CFAF 430 million per annum. The current fiscal crisis is forcing
ONDR to reexamine its policy and operating strategy. Personnel is to be
substantially reduced and an operating plan adopted to focus extension work
on priority developments. The Bank is assisting with the evaluation of
existing ONDR personnel, and technical assistance would be included in the
Bank's Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (FY87) for redefining the policy
and strategy of national extension services. Meanwhile, the immediate
financing needs will be included in the cotton sector restructuring
program.
CFDT
55.       CFDT is the French international cotton promotion company,
partially controlled by the French Ministry for Cooperation and
Development. CFDT is a minority shareholder of Cotontchad (para. 47) and
its main role is to provide technical assistance personnel and export
services. Under the new agreement, signed in September 198,, the
assistance covers the industrial, accounting, administrative, and marketing
fields. At present, 14 CFDT agents are employed by Cotontchad, in addition
to 20 consultants. CFDT also provides financial support to Cotontchad in
special circumstances, e.g., during the war, when the local banking system
was not functioning; and, more recently, by financing unsold cotton lint
inventories and by providing a CFAF 1 billion, interest-free advance.
Although in technical fields the performance of CFDT agents has been
satisfactory, its impact on management efficiency has been marginal because
the staff seconded to Cotonchad has no control over expenditures.
IRCT-Tchad
56.       Cotton research is carried out by IRCT-Tchad under the
supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture. The IRCT program has focused
on breeding trials which centered at Bebedjia, near Moundou, and seeds
multiplication which was done on Cotontchad's farm at Bekamba. IRCT
employs 11 researchers, including seven expatriates (paid by FAC); its
budget of CFAF 295 million is currently financed by French and Chadian
subsidies (CPAF 190 million and 105 million, respectively). The Chadian
contribution is channeled from Cotontchad to IRCT through CSPC. IRCT's
recent work has focused on high-yielding varieties which will allow higher
ginning output ratios (40% compared with the current performance of 36% to
39%). The focus of IRCT's work for the past 30 years has over-emphasized
variety improvement to the exclusion of production technology, crop
rotations and applied research. Since 1982 this fault has been partially
corrected by the initiation of food crop trials on rice, millet, soybean
and maize.



- 17 -
D. External Assistance in the Cotton Zone
57.       A number of projects are in progress in the sudanian zone. In
addition to FAC/IRCT support for research, field extension services are
financed by the FAC as part of an integrated rural development project
which focuses on the reinforcement of ONDR in the sudanian zone. Although
the emphasis is on cotton, this project also provides extension services
for rice cultivation, cereals, and groundnuts. The CCCE provides credit to
Cotontchad for its investments and is financing the rehabilitation of
SIMAT, the semi-public company that produces small agricultural equipment
in the sudanian zone. The EDF has recently reoriented its interventions in
the sudanian zone from cotton production to the rehabilitation of the
food-crop subsector mainly by providing assistance to ONDR's extension
services. An EDF project supporting cotton fertilizers and pesticides is
scheduled to end in 1985/86 with the financing of inputs for 10,000 ha of
cotton production. The World Bank's sole operation in the cotton sector
involves financing the ongoing rehabilitation of access roads in the cotton
zone through the Rural Projects Fund Project (Cr. 664-CD, approved in
1976), with Cotontchad executing the sub-project. The Swiss cooperation
agency finances small rural projects in tha cotton zone mainly involving
farmer training in the Centre de Formation a la Production Agricole (CFPA).
A number of NGOs are also implementing small-scale projects in the region.
In the aggregate, the above projects have had a measurable positive impact
on cotton production in the sudanian zone. Until recently, however, little
has been done to improve food-crop production.
E. Chad's Cotton Crisis
The Collapse of Prices
58.       The problem of the present world cotton surplus was precipitated
in 1985, but resulted from a series of events that stemmed from previous
years. The largest build-up of cotton stocks has occurred in China, and is
traceable to agricultural reforms in the late 1970s; notably, the
procurement prices for cotton were increased in 1979, 1980 and 1983, and
the use of high-yielding varieties expanded. Chinese farmers' response to
the package of incentives exceeded official expectations and, in 1984/85,
production reached 6.2 million tons, having more than doubled in three
years. As a result, China switched from being a net importer of cotton to
being in a position to be a substantial exporter. However, because of a
weak infrastructure and market limitations, China was able to export only
260,000 tons in 1984/85, consequently increasing its stocks to 4.3 million
tons, equivalent to 14 months' domestic supply.
59.       Events in 1983/84 also set the stage for increased cotton stocks
in other exporting countries in 1984/85. In the U.S., cotton growers
reduced their cotton acreage sharply in 1983 in response to government
incentives; yields also declined due to unfavorable growing conditions.
Yields were also lower in other major producing countries, which
contributed to very favorable cotton prices before the 1984/85 sowing
season. In 1984/85, US policy restraints were eased, and cotton growers in
other countries responded to the higher prices received in 1983/84. World
cotton acreage increased by an unprecedented 9%; average cotton yields
improved by 18% to a record 556 kg per hectare; and cotton lint production



- 18 -
reached 19.0 million tons while consumption was only 15.1 million tons.
These high levels of production will create world cotton stocks estimated
at more than 10 million tons by mid-1986, equal to nearly 8 months of world
consumption. Nearly 42% of these stocks will be held by China. This
build-up has depressed cotton prices to the lowest level in a decade. At
the same time, the depreciation of the US dollar accentuated the decline of
cotton prices in CPA Francs. The following indices illustrate the drastic
changes:
1984            1985            1986
Jan   June      Jan    June         Jan*
Index of cotton
price in US$          100    97        82       73          59
Index of CFAF/US$
exchange rate        (100)  (98)    (113)   (109)          (87)
Index of cotton price
in CFAF               100    97        93      73           51
A    Since January 1986 prices have varied erratically because of
speculation caused by the expansion of cotton stocks; they improved
somewhat in March, but fell back in April.
Cotontchad's Management and Financial Problems
60.       The events of 1985 underlined the inherent weaknesses in
Cotontchad's management, especially with regard to accounting and financial
management controls. These problems were exacerbated by the
political/military environment in which the company operated from 1979 to
1982, when it was obliged to provide logistic and other support to the
military forces controlling the region. Although management functions were
severely curtailed, Cotontchad's operations were not interrupted, even at
the peak of the hostilities. An initial study, urgently completed in March
1986 and supported by the CCCE with the participation of CFDT, has
identified the following management problems: (i) inadequate accounting
and financial supervision; (ii) inadequate management of inventories of
spare parts, rolling stock and motor vehicles; and (iii) overall weakness
of the monitoring and control systems. Cotontchad's production costs
increased by 70% in nominal terms between 1982/83 and 1984/85 -- crop
seasons with very similar levels of production. The total cost of
consumable goods rose by 166%, reflecting poor budgeting procedures,
improper procurement, and unnecessary purchases. Financial obligations
(debt service and other fees) rose by nearly 800%, although short-term debt
could have been substantially reduced if Cotontchad had managed its 1983/84
cotton revenues wisely. Lastly, the wage bill increased by 45%, without
justification. Cost accounting, in general, has been very weak. Most
recently, a 1984/85 balance sheet was prepared by Cotontchad, with
assistance from the CCCE and the CFDT; it was analyzed in the latest study
of Cotontchad's financial management, produced by the EDF in April 1986.
The last complete audit was also funded by the EDF and carried out by the



- 19 -
Sociit6 Europeenne d'Audit in 1984. New external audits by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA will be carried out an part of the Government's
program (paras. 99 and 104 (c)).
61.       The collapse of world cotton prices and the management weaknesses
of Cotontchad have plunged the company into a severe financial crisis which
threatens the whole Chadian economy. The fundamental problem is that the
sale price of cotton (FOB) is now well below average production costs.
This situation was compounded by Cotonchad's lax management. In 1984/85,
Cotontchad's average expenditures for cotton lint, as calculated from
recent balance sheets, were about CFAF 1,055/kg - 42% higher than
estimated production costs (CFAF 742/kg). This divergence can be largely
attributed to uncontrolled, unnecessary expenditures and generally poor
financial accounting. Even if expenditures had only covered actual
production costs, they would have far exceeded the selling price for
cotton, which averaged only CFAF 430/kg in 1985. The resulting loss to
Cotontchad produced an operating deficit of CFAF 18.1 billion (US$40
million) in 1984/85, and is expected to generate a deficit estimated at
CFAF 19.2 billion in 1985/86.
62.       Cotontchad's recent operating losses have made it impossible for
the company to service its debt.  The company's outstanding debt as of end
April 1986 equals CFAF 49.7 billion (US$138 million), consisting of CFAF
2.6 billion in foreign debt (mainly the CCCE), CFAF 2.1 billion to various
public sector agencies, and CFAF 45.0 billion to the domestic banking
system, split equally between the two banks, BIAT and BTCD. This debt to
local commercial banks represents over 50% of domestic credit outstanding
to the private sector in Chad, making Cotontchad's ability to service its
debt critical for the survival of the banking system. Of the CFAP 45.0
billion owed to this system, CFAF 12.4 billion consists of loans extended
prior to 1980 which were placed under moratorium for repayment between 1984
and 1994. The remaining CFAF 32.6 billion is short-term credits for the
1984/85 and 1985/86 crop seasons (CFAF 26.5 billion), and for 1985/86 and
1986/87 input purchases (CFAF 6.1 billion). In light of Cotontchad's
financial difficulties, the Central Bank has already temporarily suspended
repayment of principal on short-term domestic loans. Cotontchad's debt
service due in FY 1985/86, therefore, consists of CFAF 2.5 billion in
interest on these short-term credits, CFAF 1.4 billion in interest and
principal on medium- to long-term domestic debt (loan under moratorium),
and CFAF 0.3 billion in interest and principal on medium- to long-term
external debt. These obligations total CFAF 4.2 billion (US$11.7
million), a sum which Cotontcbad is in no position to pay. At this point,
Cotontchad will not be able to finance the upcoming crop season, nor cover
its payroll for 1986.
F. Outlook for Recovery in the Cotton Sector
63.       The donor community adopted a two-phased approach to studying the
situation in the cotton sector. Initial studies, already completed by the
CCCE/CFDT and the EDF, focused on the immediate, emergency adjustment
measures needed to reduce Cotontchad's production costs and improve its
management and accounting. A 3econd-phase study, financed by UNDP and
executed by the Bank, was launched in April 1986 to assess the options for
medium-term restructuring of the sector. This latter study includes: (i) a



- 20 -
comprehensive financial and technical audit of Cotontchad; (ii) an in-depth
review of all aspects of the cotton sector (agricultural production,
transport, storage, ginning, price and incentive policies, and ongoing and
planned investments); and (iii) possibilities for agricultural
diversification. The in-depth review will also analyze the overall
macroeconomic framework in which Cotontchad operates and assess the short-
and medium-term financial needs in the sector to reestablish the viability
of Cotontchad. The initial studies concluded that Cotontchad's
profitability can be restored in the medium-term, beginning with breaking
even by about 1992/93. This conclusion is based on two factors which are
further explained below: (i) the outlook for improvement in the world
cotton price in the medium-term; and (ii) the potential for achieving real
reductions in Cotontchad's production costs and improvements in its
operating efficiency. The conclusions and recommendatioas of the CCCE/CFDT
report were adopted by the Government and were formally discussed with the
donors in Ndjamena on March 12, 1986. The donors agreed with the fl ings
and expressed support for the adjustment program adopted by the Government.
World Price for Cotton 1/
64.       The  excess of world cotton stocks will be the major constraint
to Cotontchad's recovery in the next two years. This surplus must be
reduced substantially in order for the world price to recover
significantly. Given the size of world stocks and the present imbalance
between production and consumption, the expected growth of world
consumption will contribute only marginally to the liquidation of the
surplus stocks. Price recovery depends, therefore, predominantly on
significant reductions in world cotton production.
65.       China seems to have reacted quite quickly to the serious decline
in its food crop production in the past few years which has been associated
with the increase in cotton production. It has begun to reorient its
agricultural production through a significant reduction in incentives to
cotton producers in 1985/86. Further reductions have been announced for
1986/87.
66.       The US has the second largest volume of surplus stocks, with
1985/86 end-of-season stocks projected to reach over 2.0 million tons, or
about 1.2 million tons above the normal target level. Legislation adopted
in December 1985 introduced a policy of substantial, multi-year acreage
reductions for cotton, combined with price provisions aimed at making US
cotton competitive at world market prices. These price provisions will
apply for the 1986/87 crop season and subsequent seasons through 1990.
Based on this legislation, a progressive reduction in surplus US cotton is
anticipated over the next few years.
67.       Other cotton-producing countries reduced acreage by about 2.8% in
1985/86 in response to the 21% decline in the world price during the
1/   This section draws on Annex VI:  World Cotton Market and Prospects.



- 21 -
previous season. Current world prices will lead to an estimated further
reduction in cotton acreage of 3% or more in 1986/87.
68.       The Bank's latest price projections for cotton (CIF North Europe,
Middling 1-3/32 inch staple), which take the above production trends into
account, are as follows:
1985    1986      1987      1988      1989        1990      1991
(actual)
US$/kg
current      1.32    1.06       1.10      1.21      1.48        1.66      1.74
constant 1/  1.31    0.92       0.91      0.94      1.08        1.15      1.15
CFAF/kg
current       593      398       385       399       488         548       574
constant 1/   588      345       319       310       356         380       380
Memo item:
FF/US$ 27    8.98    7.50       7.00      6.60      6.60        6.60      6.60
Deflator 3/100.8   114.9      121.00   128.1      136.6       144.4     150.9
1/ In 1984 prices.
2/ The FF to CFAF exchange rate is fixed at FF I - CFAF 50.
3/ Index of the unit value of manufactured goods exported from
industrialized countries to developing countries (1984 - 100).
The world price began to plummet in 1985, dropping from a four-year average
(1981-84) of 1.77 US$/kg. Full recovery to that level, in current terms,
is expected in the early 1990s, although the price in real terms will equal
only two-thirds of the 1981-84 average. For projections to 1995, see Annex
VI.
Cotontchad's Production Costs
69.       The CCCE/CFDT and EDF studies identified a number of adjustment
measures which could significantly reduce Cotontchad's production costs.
The CCCE and the CFDT are continuing to explore cost-reducing options,
while the UNDP-financed Bank-executed study (para. 63) will focus on the
definition of a medium-term program for restructuring the entire cotton
sector. These studies will provide the basis for defining a detailed
adjustment and restructuring program. In the meantime, Cotontchad's
management is already tackling the urgent organizational problems already
identified, and some measures have already been taken to significantly
reduce costs. These measures, which are fully described in Part IV, are
expected to produce the following reduction in production costs over the
medium term, based on an annual output of 40,000 tons of cotton lint:



- 22 -
Production Costs 1/
1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91
................... (CA/g.o....*..a*.........(CA/g
Production costs,
(including
depreciation and
interest on debt)
current       639       625        632       643      655
constant 2/   530       488        461       444      432
Production costs
(excluding
depreciation and
interest on debt)
current      556       541        547       557      567
I/ Data refer to crop years (November-October) which closely approximate
calendar years.
2/ In 1984 prices.
70.       Cotontchad enjoyed a considerable surplus on cotton sales in 1983
and 1984. This situation reversed itself in 1985 as the world price of
cotton began to slide towards its lowest point in over a decade, while
production costs soared to unprecedented heights. The chart on the next
page shows the rapid reversal and resulting deficit gap of 1985 and beyond.
If the Government and Cotontchad successfully implement the proposed sector
adjustment program, and if Cotontchad's debt burden is satisfactorily
rescheduled, Cotontchad can be expected to show a surplus on current
operations (not including depreciation and interest payments) as of 1991.
World price is projected to reach CFAF 574/kg that year, while produ tion
costs, not including depreciation and interest payments, will be reduced to
an estimated CFAF 567/kg, generating a modest surplus of CFAF 7/kg. If the
results of oil and soap production are included, the operating surplus
appears in 1990. This situation is expected to improve in subsequent
years, permitting Cotontchad to gradually resume payment of taxes, increase
debt service payments, and undertake necessary investments. Reaching this
point will require a sustained commitment by the Government and Cotontchad
to greater efficiency and improved management of the cotton sector, as well
as financial and technical assistance from the donor community in support
of the Government's sectoral adjustment program.



- 23 -
COTONTCHAD
COTTON PRICE PROJECTIONS VS. ESTIMATED
PRODUCTION COSTS, 1983-91
mm-                      -   pue  cvam
--P- RCOSTS
mm0-                     ****  ~  cosi vz PRODz s Cos is
7W- 
I-----'__\
I~~~~
3m-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
_          ...                  .        * ''  1 e
1 982/83   /84  -84)86  WA   8/a7  87;W W;     89;W     "S1
Sm~~



- 24 -
PART IV. THE GOVERNMENT'S COTTON SECTOR PROGRAM
71.       The Chadian Government has reacted rapidly to the cotton crisis
and is firmly committed to preparing and implementing, with assistance from
the donors, a comprehensive action program to adjust to the crisis and
restore the financial and economic viability of the cotton sector. The
President and Director-General of Cotontchad have been replaced, and the
introduction of improved financial monitoring has led to the arrest of a
number of Division Chiefs. The Government has also placed agents in local
markets to monitor Cotontchad's purchases of cotton. In September 1985, a
financial controller, seconded from CFDT, was hired; he reports directly to
the Chairman. Salary and expenditure reducing measures were adopted. A
task force (Comite de Reflexion sur le secteur coton) was created to bring
together representatives of all concerned parties, including the primary
banks, the Central Bank, relevant Ministries, and rural development
institutions. This Comite de Reflexion is charged with: (i) preparing and
submitting for Government's approval a coherent adjustment program; (ii)
-seeking donors' support for that program; and (iii) monitoring its
implementation. The Government's action program involves two complementary
phases: first, an Emergency Rehabilitation Program to cover 1986/87 and
1987/88; and, second, a Medium-term Restructuring/Diversification Program.
Phase 1: Emergency Rehabilitation Program
72.       The objective of this program is to implement a set of urgent
measures aimed principally at reducing production costs and strengthening
Cotontchad's management. This emergency program is based on the
recommendations of the CCCE/CFDT study which was approved by the Government
and endorsed by the donors on March 12, 1986. Another study, financed by
the EDF and carried out in March 1986, came to similar conclusions and
recommendations as the CCCEICFDT study.
73.       The emergency program, which is already being implemented, covers
a broad range of measures affecting all levels of the cotton sector. The
measures taken so far include: (i) tighter control over expenditures and
improved spare-part stock management; (ii) firing of 450 excess permanent
staff; (iii) freezing of salaries at their 1984/85 levels; (iv)
discontinuation of year-end premiums and reduction in the number of the
staff eligible for housing and cars; (v) tighter control over medical and
pharmaceutical expenditures; (vi) closing down of the Pointe Noire agency
and laying off of its staff; (vii) cancellation of plans to open an agency
in Ngaoundere and build a residence in Garoua; (viii) freezing of all new
investments, except the minimum essential investments needed in 1986 and
1987; (ix) agreement with the banking system on suspension of payment on
arrears (both principal and interest arrears, previously under moratorium)
amounting to CFAF 12.5 billion; and (x) transfer to the Government and CAA
of a portion of Cotontchad's debt service obligation toward the CCCE
amounting to CFAF 1.7 billion (in agreement with CCCE, the servicing of
this debt has been temporarily suspended).
74.       Following discussion of the CCCE/CFDT study, the Government
agreed to undertake an additional set of measures to reduce production
costs further and rationalize operations within the cotton sector. These



- 25 -
are detailed in Annex VII, together with the respective implementation
schedules, the agencies responsible for implementation and monitoring, and
the main objectives of these measures. A number of these measures are
already underway. The main measures are the following:
*    At the producer level: (i) moving to full cost recovery on inputs
from the 1987/88 season onward, with an intermediary step (75%
cost recovery) in 1986/87, with no increase in the producer price
of seed cotton which has been set at CFAF 100 CFAF/kg for the
moment; and (ii) limiting seed cotton production to a level of
around 100,000 tons through adjustment of the area under
intensive cultivation.
*    At the Cotontchad level: (i) closing down of seven ginneries out
of 12 in operation (the remaining five ginneries can handle the
projected level of 100,000 tons of seed cotton per crop season)
and adjustment of the personnel level accordingly; (ii) selling
of non-essential or non-performing assets to the private sector
(two aircraft, 80 trucks, 69 cars); (iii) closing down of the
Bangui branch and laying off the staff; (iv) reducing the number
of cotton-buying centers; and (v) reducing the staff at
Cotontchad's headquarters;
*    At the Government level: (i) exempting Cotontchad from taxes
(export tax) and other contributions (CAA, ONDR) until its
accounts are balanced; (ii) redefining the role of CSPC and
reducing its staff; (iii) reducing the staff of ONDR and
reassessing its role and objectives.
75.       The Government adopted a target production level of 100,000 tons
of seed cotton for the first year of the emergency program because: Ci)
the optimal area recommended for intensive cultivation (75,000 ha), in
conjunction with continued traditional cultivation, will yield
approximately this volume; and, (ii) further reduction in intensive
cultivation and a retrenchment towards traditional production would create
the need for an extensive cropping rotation which would be difficult to
impose. Lack of such a rotation could lead to over-exploitation of soil
resources and reduce the agricultural sector to only low-yield, subsistence
production. The technical production package (100 kg. of complex fertilizer
plus six pesticide sprayings per hectare) recommended for this volume is
considered the minimum needed to ensure intensive yields and maintain
producers' interest in intensive cultivation (an interest which has been
gradually heightened over the past 15 years).
76.       For the 1986 production season, the Bank has accepted the
Government's target to produce 100,000 tons of seed cotton. However, this
production target will be reviewed by the on-going cotton sector study
(para. 63) which is considering the technical, financial, and economic
implications of Cotontchad's production policy, using a number of
alternative scenarios, including the use of less intensive technology and
development of alternative sources of foreign exchange. Similarly,
although Chad's cotton producer price is in line with that of neighboring
countries, a decrease of CFAF 10/kg seed cotton for a 100,000 ton crop
would cut Cotontchad's expenses by US$2.7 million equivalent. In view of



- 26 -
Cotontchad's severe financial constraints, the feasibility of a producer
price decrease must be seriously reconsidered. This is also being
thoroughly examined in the study. It is, however, to be noted that the
removal of input subsidies will already reduce significantly the average
net return to the producers.
77.       Cotontchad could generate additional savings by closing down its
Paris branch and contracting its activities to CFDT (as is the case for
several cotton companies in other countries) at lesser cost. Other cost
saving measures might include discontinuing Cotontchad's contribution to
IRCT-Tchad activities and mobilizing alternative financing (external grant,
preferably) for key research activities. Urgent reorganization of
Cotontchad's financial and accounting department, establishment of an
internal control department (Contr8le financier), and adequate staffing of
these departments are essential for carrying out these measures. These
financial management aspects are also addressed in the Bank-executed study,
which may lead to recommendations for additional measures, to be agreed
with the Government at the first progress review in September 1986.
Impact of the Emergency Program
78.       Impact on Producers.  Freezing of the producer price of cotton at
its current level of 100 CFAF/kg, along with the phased elimination of
input subsidies, will gradually reduce the profitability of "intensive"
cotton cultivation. The Government decided to reduce Cotontchad's losses
by increasing cost recovery on inputs, rather than by reducing the producer
price for seed cotton in order to allow the farmer (at least for the time
being) to decide on input use in the light of an awareness of the true
costs of the inputs. Whereas intensive cultivation in recent years
generally has shown returns per day 60-120% above traditional cotton
cultivation and foodcrop production, the impact of the adjustment program
may be to substantially reduce returns on intensive cultivation. However,
these returns would still be more favorable than those obtained from
traditional cultivation or from production of other crops. Data on
returns per day must be improved in order to gain a better understanding of
likely changes in the relative profitability of agricultural products, as
well as the impact of these changes on production. The ongoing
Bank-executed study of the cotton sector will look into this question in
order to determine (i) the optimal level of intensive cotton cultivation in
the medium- and long-term; and (ii) appropriate relative prices for
agricultural products, in general, and future modifications of the producer
price of cotton, in particular.
79.       Impact on the Balance of Payments.  The impact of the cotton
sector on Chad's balance of payments in the recent past and in the future
can be summar'zed as follows:



- 27 -
(millions of US$)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Total exports, FOB            111     58     49      53     62     77      85
of which: cotton               97     47     39      41     48     59     64
Cotton as a Z of total         87     80      79     78     77     76      75
Imported inputs for cotton    32      39     33      25     26     28      29
Cotton trade balance (net)    65       8      6      16     22     31      35
Memo: CFAF/US$                437    449    375    350    330    330    330
In recent years cotton has provided at least 802 of Chad's recorded export
earnings, and as much as 90% in boom years such as 1984. However,
excessive and unnecessary purchases of imported inputs undermined the net
positive impact of cotton exports. The potential impact of the current
cotton crisis in upcoming years is severe. If Cotoutchad were to go
bankrupt and cease cotton exporting, Chad would lose four-fifths of its
anticipated export earnings, with no alternative sources available in the
short-term. The impact on the trade balance would be mitigated by the drop
in imported inputs, except possibly in 1986 because inputs have already
been ordered for the 1986/87 crop season. If Cotontchad continues to
export - which it must, given the magnitude of the reduction in export
earnings otherwise entailed - the net positive impact will be small in the
next few years, but will rise towards a more normal level as the world
price for cotton recovers. The donor community can support Chad during
this period of adjustment through capital transfers, particularly to
finance imported inputs, which will permit Cotontchad to continue export
operations while streamlining and restructuring the sector. External
financing of imported inputs will also reduce Chad's import burden, thereby
mitigating the impact of reduced export earnings on the balance of
payments.
80.       Impact on the Central Government, Parastatals, and the National
Research Institute. The central Goverment, CAA, ONDR, and IRCT-Tchad will
have to forego their usual contributions from Cotontchad in 1986 and until
the company again makes an operating surplus. These contributions total an
estimated CFAF 3.7 billion (US$10.3 million) and consist of: (i) CFAF 2.8
billion in cotton export tax revenues for the central Government, including
CFAF 2.6 billion for the general budget and CFAF 185 million for ONDR; (ii)
about CFAF 260 million as direct contribution to ONDR; (iii) CFAF 225
million as direct contribution to CAM; (iv) CFAF 300 million in guarantee
fees for CAA on credits to Cotontchad; and (v) CFAF 105 million as direct
contribution to IRCT-Tchad. In addition, the reduction in Cotontchad's
operations and, in particular, the laying off of personnel will have
indirect effects on fiscal revenues through reduced income tax and sales
taxes on other goods, although the magnitude of this loss is difficult to
ascertain.



- 28 -
(a) Impact on the Central Government. The direct impact of the
adjustment program on the Central Government, CFAF 2.8
billion in revenues foregone, is equivalent to 15Z of the
Government's 1986 estimated revenues of CFAF 18.9 billion.
Current projections indicate that, despite the lost cotton
revenues, the shortfall in total revenues from the budgeted
level will amount to less than 3Z. It is envisaged that
more than three-fourths of the foregone revenues will be
replaced by (i) the reintroduction of a poll tax (estimated
yield CFAF 1.2 billion); (ii) improved customs d&ties
collection; and (iii) other measures under discussion with
the rMF. Revenues in 1986 will, therefore, be only 7Z lower
than their 1985 level - a critical loss, nonetheless, given
Chad's extremely severe fiscal constraints. Lower revenues,
in conjunction with increased expenditures, will generate a
much larger budget deficit, rising from an average of about
CFAF 4.4 billion per annum in 1983/85 to nearly CFAF 7.0
billion (US$19.4 million) in 1986;
(b) Impact on the CAA. The CAM will forego an estimated CFAF
520 million in cotton revenues, equal to 22% of its 1986
provisional budget. Previously, cotton revenues provided
between 40 and 45% of CAA's total revenues, but the
Government recognized the need to develop alternate sources
even before the impact of the cotton problem was fully
realized. Increased tax rates on beer and cigarettes, as
well as increased revenues on oil, soap, and sugar, will
permit CAA's revenues to rise from CFAF 1.3 billion in 1985
to CFAF 1.8 billion in 1986, although this will still be
insufficient to cover Chad's scheduled debt service this
year (para. 20).
(c) Impact on ONDR. In the absence of alternative sources of
revenues, the ONDR would have to forego approximately CFAF
440 million in revenues from cotton, including CFAF 185
million channeled from Cotontchad through the Central
Government and CFAF 260 million contributed directly by
Cotontchad. This represents a loss of over three-fourths of
its anticipated financial resources for 1986 (para. 53).
Given the magnitude of the loss and the importance of ONDR's
role, compensatory financing is being sought in the proposed
project.
(d) Impact on IRCT-Tchad. The 1986 provisional budget for
IRCT-Tchad was estimated at the 1985 level of CFAF 295
million. This year, however, IRCT-Tchad will have to forego
approximately CFAF 105 million in cotton revenues
contributed directly by Cotontchad. Compensation for this
36% loss in revenues is being sought from donors.
Phase 2: Medium-Term Restructuring/Diversification Program
81.       In addition to its major objective of economic support, through
its institution restructuring, the Emergency Cotton Program Credit would



- 29 -
provide the foundation for accelerating the preparation and start-up of a
medium-term restructuring/diversification program. The latter would be
financed through the proposed Agricultural Sector Project (FY 88) and might
include: (a) diversifying cotton production, reorienting cotton
cultivation, introducing alternative industrial crops, and improving the
efficiency of food cropping; (b) developing a strategy for applied
research; (c) modernizing the planning, organization and supervision of
field extension services (ONDR); (d) investing in facilities: buildings,
processing and handling equipment for modernizing the cotton spinning and
textile manufacture, research and extension services; and (e) strengthening
the organization and financial management of Cotontchad (and other rural
development agencies). The above two-phased approach provides a convincing
basis for support by the donor community.
Financial Projections
82.       Analysis of Cotontchad's past financial statements and
estimations of its future operations have permitted the development of a
set of cash-flow projections, using 1986 as the base year, which indicate
when and undei what conditions Cotontchad's profitability can be restored.
These projections show that Cotontchad could have a surplus on current
operations (i.e. before depreciation), including interest payments on
outstanding debt, beginning in 1991/92. Without payment of interest,
current operations will break even as of 1989/90. The main assumptions
underlying these projections include:
*    Evolution of world cotton prices.  The world price of cotton
evolves throughout the projection period as indicated in Part
III, para. 68 and Annex VI;
*    Level of production.  Cotton production will be restricted to a
maximum of 100,000 tons per annum in order to assure financial
maintenance of the cotton sector;
*    Impact of the Government's adjustment program.  The anticipated
effects of the adjustment measures already adopted by the
Government are incorporated into the cash-flow projections;
*    Cotontchad's debt service.  For purposes of illustration only,
The base scenario assumes payment of only interest on short-,
medium- and long-term debt. Principal repayments are assumed to
be suspended throughout the program implementation period.
Interest is calculated using the rates originally applied to the
loans (no late payment penalty rates are assumed).
Since these assumptions involve uncertainty with regard to the world price,
the production level, and the debt service, the projection scenario was the
subject of sensitivity analyses as noted below. The following table
summarizes the results (depreciation not included) of the base scenario
cash-flow analysis:



- 30 -
(in billion of CFAF)
1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92 1995
1. Total Income              19.6      20.2     23.9     26.4      27.4     30.4 41.5
2. Total Expenditures         28.3     27.9     28.1      28.5       29     29.4 33.7.
3. (Deficit)/Surplus         (8.7)    (7.7)    (4.2)    (2.1)    (1.6)       1.0  7.8
4. US$ million              (24.9)   (23.3)   (12.7)    (6.4)    (4.8)       3.0 23.6
5. Deficit/Surplus without  (5.5)    (4.4)    (0.9)        1.2      1.7      4.3 14.6
payment of interest
on outstanding debt
6. US$ million              (15.7)   (13.3)    (2.7)       3.6      5.1     13.0 44.2
1/   Includes only interest payments (no amortization of principal) on
outstaiding debt; includes minimum and essential investments, assumed
to be zer- .. of 1988.
The projections show that:
-i)  the total deficit for the next two years will be equivalent to
US$29 million (line 6 above; this figure is lower than the one
used in the program because it does not include contingencies);
(ii)  Cotontchad's operating account will yield a small surplus during
the 1991/92 crop year (Annex VIII); and
(iii)  Cotontchad will be able to start repaying principal on out-
standing loans after 1991 (Annex VIII).
83.       The base scenario projects a break-even point in 1992.  The
sensitivity analyses on world price and production levels show, over the
full range of scenarios, shifts in the break-even point of only one year.
Even if world prices were as much as 20% above the base scenario,
Cotontchad would break even only as of 1991. The sensitivity analysis of
debt service highlights the need to find an appropriate solution to the
debt situation, but this could be done in various possible ways, involving
various combinations of moratorium, rescheduling, and renegotiation of
interest rates.
84.       These projections point to the need for a series of support
actions from the donor community in order to help stabilize the Chadian
economy and create a more solid basis for future development. These
actions involve:
(i) immediate financial support to maintain the cotton sector over
the next two years while restructuring is initiated;



- 31 -
(ii)  a feasibility study for a project to improve the productivity of
the cotton sector; and
(iii)  subsector studies for diversification of agricultural production,
emphasizing food production, import substitution and alternative
exports.
The first of these actions is the focus of this emergency program. The
second is being addressed in the ongoing Bank-executed, UNDP-financed
cotton sector study. The findings of the study will be discussed at the
first review meeting to be held in September, leading to possible
additional measures that would be incorporated in the Government's program
(Annex VII, para 14 of the letter). The third action (diversification
studies) will be initiated under this study and enlarged under the proposed
IDA Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (FY87). The proposed follow-up IDA
Agricultural Sector Project (FY88) will be an appropriate vehicle for
financing the technical and organizational restructuring of the cotton
sector, as well as for promoting agricultural diversification.
PART V. THE EMERGENCY PROGRAM
Background
85.       The Government of Chad has set the rehabilitation of the cotton
sector as its top economic priority. Acknowledging the size and complexity
of the economic and financial problems facing Chad, President Babr4
appealed to the Bank in November 1985 to take the lead in assisting the
Government to formulate an emergency rehabilitation program. The problems
confronting the sector were examined in an initial study which identified a
set of immediate measures that were discussed at a meeting held on March
12, 1986 in Ndjamena between the Government and the donors. A short
appraisal mission followed that meeting. A survey financed by EDF
confirmed the findings of the mission as well as the main conclusions and
recommendations of the earlier study. This survey was discussed and was
well received by the donors at a meeting held in Brussels on April 14,
1986. Cofinancing arrangements were finalized at a cofinancers' meeting in
Washington on May 21 and 22, 1986. Negotiations were held in Washington on
May 23, 24 and 25, 1986. The Government delegation was led by Mr. Abmed
Rerim TogoI, Secretary-General of the Presidency. Key events and special
conditions are listed in Annex III. There is no separate Staff Appraisal
Report.



- 32 -
Program Obijectives
86.       The program would provide substantial support to the first phase
of the' Government's cotton sector program (para. 72 and ff.) and pave the
way for preparing and financing a comprehensive medium-term restructuring
project, including crop diversification.
Program Design and Description
87.       At this stage, there are no known alternatives to cotton as the
principal cash crop and source of foreign exchange for Chad. Diversifi-
cation possibilities and their development will be initiated under the
ongoing Bank-executed study and deepened under the proposed Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project (FY87). Before the diversification possibilities
can be identified, studied and developed, and given Chad's absolute
dependence on cotton, the rehabilitation of the cotton sector is paramount.
Thus, the proposed sector program credit will support the Government's
emergency rehabilitation efforts embodied in Phase 1 (Emergency
Rehabilitation Program) of the Government's Cotton Sector Program . The
details of the action program to which the Government is committed are set
out in a Letter of Sector Policies from the Secretary-General of the
Presidency to IDA dated May 21, 1986 (Annex VII). The Letter is an
integral part of the conditionality under the program. The proposed
program constitutes a first set of reforms to be undertaken while we deepen
our knowledge of the sector and investigate restructuring and
diversification possibilities for the second phase. Given the past
experience, the program also gives priority to stengthening Cotontchad's
management and establishing appropriate control procedures.
88.       The timely implementation of the agreed cost reduction actions
and management improvement measures, in conjunction with financial
assistance from the donors and a steady improvement in the world market, is
expected gradually to make Cotonchad's operations profitable. The
financing provided by the proposed credit will permit Cotontchad to
continue operations during an initial traroitional period and, in
particular, to cover its inputs program and to strengthen its management
through a technical assistance program. The proposed program would cover
two years, beginning July 1, 1986, and consist of the following components:
(i)       financing of Cotontchad's-inputs program;
(ii)      financing of Cotontchad'ss management improvement and
financial control through provision of external audits and
technical assistance services, training, and studies to help
prepare a medium-term restructuring/diversification program;
(iii)     support for the continued qperation and reorganization
of key institutions in the 'cotton sector, particularly
extension services (ONDR) and research activities (IRCT).



- 33 -
Implementation
89.       Cotontchad will be responsible for overall program implementation
and monitoring, including preparation of annual budgets, quarterly and
annual progress reports, and the medium-term restructuring program. The
program components which support ONDR and IRCT would be implemented by the
General Directorate in the Ministry of Rural Development. Close monitoring
is essential for the successful implementation of the Emergency
Rehabilitation,Program. Under the program, Cotontchad's monitoring
capacity would be strengthened through: (a) reorganization of Cotontchad's
financial and accounting department, and (b) recruitment of a program
coordinator/financial controler who would report directly to Cotontchad's
Director General. The program coordinator, financed by IDA, would be
recruited internationally. The implementation schedule is given in
Annex IX.
Overall Financing Needs
90.       The financing needs for the cotton sector for the next two years
(1986/87 and 1987/88) include:
(a)  a cash-flow deficit of US$32.4 million equivalent (Annex
*VIII) and working capital requirements of US$9.5 million;
(b) support to managment (technical assistance, audits, studies)
for US$1.1 million; and
(c)  support to ONDR and IRCT-Tchad for US$4.3 million.
In additon to the above which total US$47.4 million, taxes foregone for the
Government as a result of the cotton crisis amount to US$15.6 million.
These needs do not include Cotontchad's debt service (US$18.3 million.for
interests, and US$102.7 million for principal). The Government is pursuing
its dialogue with donors and the Central Bank with a view to finding a
satisfactory solution to the debt service problem. In addition the United
States and France have agreed to provide budgetary support to cover the
Government's revenue shortfall.
ProRram Cost and Financing
91.       The total costs of the emergency program, net of taxes and duties
is, as noted above, about CFAF 17.1 billion (US$47.4 million), with a
foreign exchange component of about US$39.4 equivalent. The costs are
based on prices in Chad in March 1986. Estimated costs for each program
component are given in the project summary and in Annex X which shows also
the percentage of foreign exchange for each component. Price contingencies
of 10% of total program base costs have been included.
92.       The program is to be financed by an IDA Credit of SDR 12.8
million (US$15 million equivalent). Other donors would cofinance the
program through parallel arrangements with the Government as follows:



- 34 -
(a) CCCE would make available to Cotontchad total financing of
FF 112 million (US$15.6 million equivalent) through:
(i) reallocating of FF 38 million under a 1985 loan; and
(ii)   special new loan of FF 74 million.  The 1985 loan is
over 15 years, including a 5 year grace period, with a fee
of 0.5Z and at an interest rate of 0.5Z. The special loan,
scheduled for CCCE's Board approval in early July 1986,
would be over 30 years, including a 10 year grace period,
with a fee of 0.5Z and at an interest rate of 1.5% during
the grace period and 2% thereafter. CCCE's contribution
would finance, in parallel, equipment, transportation,
management support and training, and support to ONDR;
(b) EDF would provide ECU 15 million (US$14.2 million
equivalent) as a grant, including ECU 5 million under the
EDF V and ECU 10 million under the Stabex for CY1986, to
finance agricultural inputs, polypropylene packing material,
and support to ONDR (farm implements and bicycles). The
amount of Stabex funds for CY1986 (ECU 10 million) is a
conservative estimate. The actual amount could be higher,
possibly ECU 14 million. The difference (ECU 4 million) and
the Stabex funds expected for CY1987 (ECU 8-19 million)
would be made available to Cotontchad as a revolving fund
for marketing of seed cotton;
cc) The FAC would provide a grant of FF6 million (US$0.8 million
equivalent) to finance support to ONDR and IRCT; and
[d) The Netherlands would provide a grant of Florin 6 million
(US$2.3 million equivalent) to finance fertilizers.
Although technically (based on the decline in the world cotton price) Chad
qualifies for a drawing under the IMF's Compensatory Financing Facilits.
the amount would be quite small and the terms unsuitable for the medium to
long-term adjustment necessary.
93.       The proposed IDA credit of US$15 million equivalent would be lent
to Government under normal IDA conditions, including 10 years grace. Tl'-e
credit would finance 31.6% of the total cost of the program net of tax and
duty (39.1% of foreign costs and 18.11 of local costs). The funds woula be
used for purchasing inputs, spare parts, fuel and lubricants, audits,
studies, and consulting services for Cotontchad. The credit would also
finance office equipment and operating costs for the Program Coordination
Unit. Of the total credit, up to about US$600,000 (SDR 500,000) would be
available for retroactive financing to cover the costs of the audit of
Cotonchad's 1984/85 accounts (initial audit) and the recruitment of the
program coordinator.
94.       Proceeds of the IDA 'credit would be passed on by the Government
to Cotontchad as equity with!n arrangements, satisfactory to IDA. Farmers'
repayments against short-term credit for inputs (insecticides, fertilizers,
sprayers) and medium-term credit for equipment would be passed on by the
Government to Cotontchad as equity.



- 35 -
Program Cost and Financins 1/
CFAF             L'S$
billion         million          FAr financing of:
EDF                       4.9             13.7           Inputs, farm,
implements,
support to ONDR.
CCCE                      5.6             15.6           Operating costs
support to ONDR,
inputs.
FAC                       0.3              0.8           Support to IRCT.
The Netherlands           0.9              2.3           Inputs.
IDA                       5.4             15.0           Inputs, audit,
studies, TA.
Total                 17.1             47.4
mm
1/ See Annex X for details.
Management and Coordination
95.       The Director General of Cotontehad would be responsible for
implementing the program. A program coordinating unit (PCU) would be
established in the Director General's office to provide management control
for Cotontchad and to monitor the progress in implementing the program. A
proven administrator and management control specialist would be appointed
for two years to head the unit. Working with two Chadian counterparts, the
program coordinator would advise the Director General on organizational
matters and monitor the physical and financial performance of Cotontchad
relative to Government's emergency action plan supported by the donors.
The PCU would provide weekly progress reports to the Director General and
these, together with Cotontchad's balance sheet, would be sent as a monthly
report to the donors, together with recommendations for amendments and
further improvements (para. 99). The IDA program would finAnce the
recruitment of the program controller, the provision of a vehicle and
office equipment, and the financing of support staff and operating costs.
At negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government regarding
objectives, organization and operation of the PCU. The establishment of
the PCU and selection of a program coordinator would be a condition of
disbursement for the first tranche of the IDA program credit. An IDA
mission would visit Chad in July 1986 to supervise progress in implementing
the program and to agree on the initial work program for the PCU.



- 36 -
Procurement and Disbursement
96.       The proceeds of the Credit are estimated to be disbursed over 18
months. Procurement procedures have been designed to speed up use of funds
while ensuring efficiency and economy in the process. To facilitate
disbursement and procurement, a Special Account would be established in a
commercial bank, the Banque Tchadienne de Credit et de D6p6ts (BTCD) by the
Government on behalf of the beneficiary, Cotontchad. The BTCD would be
responsible for maintaining the accounts of this Special Account. After
credit effectiveness, an initial deposit of CFAF 720 million, corresponding
to US$2.0 million, would be made by IDA into the Special Account. This
account would be replenished regularly up to the limit of the First Tranche
(see below) on the basis of fully documented reimbursement applications for
amounts in excess of US$0.5 million and on the basis of statements of
expenditures under that amount. The minimum amount of replenishment
applications would be US$500,000. The BTCD would indicate on the
statements of expenditures the nature and origin of the goods and services,
as well as the payment date, and would maintain all relevant supporting
documentation (invoices, import certificates and evidence of payment) for
review by supervision missions and audits. Provision has been made to
allow retroactive financing of up to US$600,000 to cover the costs of the
audit of Cotontchad's 1984/85 accounts, and the recruitment of the Program
Coordinator.
97.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed in two
tranches as follows:
(a)  a first tranche of US$10 million from the IDA credit would
be available immediately upon effectiveness of the Credit
(expected in August/September 1986);
(b)  a second tranche of US$5 m;.. .ion, representing the balance
of the IDA credit, would be made available around June 1987,
after a review of performance under the program, provided
that the conditions stipulated in Section III (b) of Annex
III have been fulfilled.
S8.       All contracts over US$500,000 financed under the IDA Credit would
be awarded after International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines (audit and TA services, and fuel purchases excepted).
Audits, studies, training programs. and TA services would be procured in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines on the use of consultants. Fuel
purchases would be awarded through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures which have been found satisfactory to IDA. Cotontchad would
award the contract to the lowest evaluated bid after receiving quotations
from the existing three international private petroleum marketing
companies. Under this procedure, Cotontchad would benefit from the low
price which can be obtained by these petroleum marketing companies which
also serve neighboring countries. More important, the ?roducts would be
stored by these companies and delivered to Cotontchad progressively.
(Using ICB instead would not mean, in this case, necessarily cheaper unit
prices, and would require purchasing large quantities at once, which
implies that Cotontchad would have to increase its limited storage capacity



- 37 -
by building new facilities). To the greatest extent possible, purchases
would be grouped for bidding. Bidding documents are now being prepared by
Cotontchad for deliveries to start around September 1986 (except for fuel).
Draft bidding documents and bid analyses would be submitted to IDA for
approval before award of contracts. A procurement table is attached as
Annex XI.
Project Monitoring, Reviews and Audits
99.       Cotontchad would establish separate accounts for the program.  It
would have its annual accounts, starting with the 1984/85 fiscal year,
audited by external auditors acceptable to IDA, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles. Terms of reference for the audit of the
1984/85 accounts were agreed at negotiations. This audit will be completed
by September 1986, in time for discussion at the first review meeting
between the Government, Cotonchad, and the donors. This .udit will include
proposals for budgetary and control procedures to improve Cotontchad's
operations. The auditors will also assist Cotontchad in establishing a
monitoring mechanism for the financial aid package, including the
preparation of monthly balance sheets and quarterly progress reports by
Cotontchad for the Government and the donors concerned. In addition,
Cotontchad would have semi-annual audits for the expenses under the Special
Account (para. 96). The first such semi-annual audit would be due by March
1987. Biannual review meetings will be held between the Government, the
donors' representatives and Cotontchad to assess progress in adjustment and
restructuring, agree on budgets, and modify and/or adopt new measures as
needed. The first such meeting will take place no later than September
1986 to (i) review the results of the audit report on Cotontchad's 1984/85
accounts; (ii) review the recommendations and conclusions of the
IDA-executed study (para. 63) and agree on a complementary action program;
and (iii) agree on a detailed budget for 1986/87. Within Cotontchad,
progress reporting will be coordinated by the Program Coordinator/Financial
Controller in the office of Cotontchad's Director General.
Benefits
100.      The program would yield the following benefits.  First, for the
economy, it would enable Chad to survive an abrupt and unexpected drop in
its export earnings and Government revenues thereby helping to avert a
nation-wide crisis with severe macroeconomic implications. The collapse of
cotton production would also throttle industrial growth, in general, and
bankrupt the domestic banking system. Pending the recovery of the cotton
price, the proposed program would help avoid economic turmoil and the
consequential political unrest. Second, for Cotontchad, it would help
finance operations through a difficult adjustment period and stimulate the
company's medium-term transformation into, once again, a viable enterprise.
Third, for producers, it would maintain and improve field services and
allow continued processing of their dominant cash crop, thereby preventing
the abandonment of cotton production which is virtually their sole source
of money income.
101.      While it is not feasible to calculate an economic rate of return
for this credit, analysis of alternatives to the proposed emergency program



- 38 -
will be carried out as part of the diversification studies under the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (FY88), taking into account the
recommendations of the ongoing cotton sector study.
Risks
102.      Given the fragile state of the Chadian economy and the
uncertainties concerning the world cotton market, the program faces a
number of risks:
(a) At the production level, there is a risk t'aat small-holders
will react adversely to the freezing of producer prices and
the elimination of input subsidies. This risk is acceptable
for four reasons:
(i) the lack of alternative crops to meet the farmer's need
for reliable cash income (para. 43);
(ii) the anticipated seed cotton yield (about 600 kg/ha) is
realistic;
(iii) the level of production intensity proposed for the next
two seasons (para. 75) is lower than that achieved in
previous seasons; and
(iv) farmers continued intensive cotton production from 1980
to 1984 despite the adverse conditions imposed by civil
war and drought. Furthermore, operating costs, already
cut back, are now being carefully controlled, and could
be further reduced if input use decline-.
(b)  At the national level, there are political risks, but these
are acceptable because of the remarkable progress made by
President Hissein Habre since 1983 in establishing an
effective and stable administration, and the growing support
which he has received from the population.
(c)  At the cotton marketing level, there is the risk that world
prices will recover more slowly than currently projected,
although this is unlikely because the price forecasts
adopted are prudent.
(d)  There is also a risk that Cotontchad's restructuring will
not result in a viable institution; this will be countered
by the provision of highly qualified advisors, careful
progress monitoring, and the biannual program review
meetings to be held with Cotonchad and the donors.
103.      On the other hand, the risks inherent in not implementing this
program are extremely serious. Without the proposed financing plan,
Cotontchad would go bankrupt and the cotton sector would be destroyed.
Given the absence of alternative income sources (there are no other cash
crops available which the farmer could turn to in place of cotton), this
would cause the collapse of Chad's fragile market-oriented economy and



- 39 -
relegate the country to a subsistance economy with little hope for progress
and high risk of renewed political unrest.
104.      Conditionality.  The conditionality of the proposed credit is
formulated in the Government's Letter of Sector Policies of May 21, 1986
attached as Annex VII. The key conditions are listed in Annex III:
PART VI. RECOMHENDATION
I a- satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
June 3, 1986
Attachments



- 40 -
TABLE OF CONTENTS: ANNEXES
I.    Country Data: Social and Economic Indicators
II.   Status of Bank Group Operations in Chad
III.  Supplementary Project Data Sheet
IV.   Institutional Organization of Cotton Production and Processing
V.    Organizational Chart of Cotontchad
VI.   World Cotton Market and Prospects
VII.  Letter of Cotton Sector Adjustment with matrix of emetgency measures
VIII. Financial Projections: Base Scenario
IX.   Cotton Emergency Progr3m: Implementation Schedule
X.    Cotton Emergency Program: Components and Financing
UI.   Procurement Table fos IDA Financing



AM I
41 --
Paige  1 of .6
e"S- SOCIAL lDW S*.ragMnt &                      .w
WIST                     LD(ST SUaS  4Th1*1)
1416A     wAb gait nATaL.          sam  o  sasa         anna a. UpSes
amu (nosv IQ. m)
tOTA ,     a11.                                  .
aCRICLTUL                         46.0        4.0        411..
am eCsl  Cusn)                                               .. ..  ..         23.8
(KtUCIUa  F OIL QVIVALII1T)         V.G        14.0        22.0              02.3                    541.5
UovUjAius am viva. sangina
PdPATIOIS.410b-t (tA  0U31VAN6)   304.0      35L0P       4766.0
UROW   PUILATION (2 ew iora)        7.0        11.4        20.1              2041                     32.0
POPUIATIUN PUOJCTIONs
POPUIATION IN Sa  200 CHIL)                               7.2
POPULATION ICHZKUIN                                       1.6
OULATION  NSITS
PE  SQ. I.                        2.4         2.6         3.7              33.2                     4S1
via so. IN. AJa. LIAW             4.4         7.4         9.7             11:a                     12t..
POPnATION ME STwnT  (I)
o-L6 us                          39.3       41.3       0.2               44.0                     45.6
1 55.4  99                       54.7        15.1        54.5              50.8                     54.1
63 AND AWM                         3.4        3.5         3.1               2.9                      2.7
FOPIILAT    CUOWME  AT  CZ)
TOTL                               1.4        I.6         Ll                2.3                      2.9
URBAN                             4.5         4.4         4.4              4GA                       1.1
CIUDS sRt. mawM (Mt  Sous)         10.0        '0.9        42.4              47.2                     47.0
C0313  DAIR RIAT (itrt TOUS3 )     24.1        24.4        20.4              170J                     I J3
GcoSS twIOECTIO  MAlT               2.5         2.4         L7                3.3                      3.2
FAMILY PtIUIII
ACCWTOU5. ANNHiL (TOl)             ..
US CZS t2 o ArRI  uS)             ..          ..          1.0  C            3IJ                      0.4
,mn  or FOMD t. MR, CAPITA
(1949-71-100)                     117.0        9.0         93.0               .3                      62.9
Pi CAPTA SPMiL of
CALCIUUS (2  7 IFQUIRIaeTS)      93.0        91.0        48.0              87.7                     gEl
noniwS (GAW PEt DAY)             74.0        6.0         11.0              11.9                     554
OF man AsesL aM  PULI           22.0        19.0        1.0 c             14.7                     14.3
ClLLD (actS 1-4) DcATN m           52.0        42.0        29.0              23.1                     14.4
LIFE UPECT. AT USTl  tLARS)        39.2        40.1        13.2              47.6                     52.0
Itra   tlDr. NAlt CM   OIS)       194.5       172.1      142.0              119.5                   1o6.6
ACCSS TO SAM AlETK (2101)
TOT.                               ..        17.0        30.0 J             7.1                     42.4
UW                                ..         47.0        30.0 A            43.1                     67.3
mUaL                              ..         24.0        3u.UD             19.3                     31.6
aCCISS TO CRETA DZSPOSaL
(1 07 POPIAflOD)
TOTAL                              ..         1.0         ..               20.5                     2.9
aUau                              ..          7.0         ..               45.4                     37.7
tRRL                               ..         ..          ..               20.8                     20.7
POPLATION  it S M5A             72950.0    41900.0    47040.0             27901J                   11791.7
VPO. Pit SlING ItSO              1640.0 It  1340.0      36.0  A            364                      24a6
POP. Pit HOSPrIAL -
TOTL                            1430.0      740.0      1270.0            1273.4                    941.2
UnIs                            220.0 It   260.0       390.0              42.2                     3U4
*UM                             1320.0 W   3670.0      1900.0A           3292.s                   4371.9
AnNISIONS FM HOSPrTAL WD            ..         17.1        ..                 ..                      27.2
AIICUAg SIZUE or ODs w
TOTAL                              ..         ..          ..
UDM                               ..          4.S         ..
LtE                               ..          5.0 IL
AIVa  No. aS  ransom/am
TOTAL                             ..          ..
Um                                ..          ..
LIt                                ..         ....
7ucml  OW ILLJS Umt    mcIS.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
gras                               ..         ..
RIAL                               ..         ..



ANNEX I
@  - 42 -                                           Page 2 of 6
CnAD                   - SOCIAL INDtCATOU DATA SHEET
CHAD                                 REFRENCE Gaours (CUEcHo AVURAGEU) /Le
No0T                     CIOST 6C9   ST HAI) /b
RCENT         LOU INCOIa AmRicA         MIDDLE !Tcas
1960/b     197HYk ESTIIIT            S     OF SUNARA      AFRICA S. OF SMA
AIXDUSTED EMROLXIXT RATIC-
PRIMlY:  TOTAL                    17.0        35.0       35.0 /h            67.8                      95.7
HLE                    29.0        52.0        51.0 71;          77.6                     100.0
FEKALS                  4.0        17.0        19.0 7W           54.9                      83.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   0.4         2.0         3.0 /h           l3.5                      17.3
KALU                    1.0         4.0         6.0 7W           17.9                      25.0
FEMALE                  0.1         0.3         1.0 7ii           9.1                      14.8
VOCATIOUL Ct OF SECONOAT)           21.0         9 '        3.3 /b            13.2                      5.9
PUPIL-TAIUER RATIO
PRIAY                             66.0 /f    65.0        61.0 lh            44.9                     41.1
SECOIDAZ                          21.0        24.0        ..                27.4                     25.5
m
PASSENGER CARS/TNOUSAN NW            0.6         1.1        ..                 3.6                      20.6
RADIO RECEIVS/TOUSAND F              2.0        16.4       25.6               55.S                     107.8
TV 1ECEIVRS/TNOUSA1D Pro             .                                         2.6                      20.8
NHESPAPER ("DAILY GENEAL
INTIEREST") CIRCLATON
PER T1O0SAI D POPULATIOU            0.2         0.2        0.3                5.0                      1S.4
CIMA ANNUAL ATTEMOAMWCAPITA          0.1         0.4 /I     5.8 /c             0.S                      0.4
LA01R FONC
TOTAL LAR FORC (TubaS)            1197.0      1377.0      1605.0
FEXALE (PERCUT)                   23.2        22.8       23.7               34.2                     36.2
AGIILITURR (PERCE)               95.0        90.0       85.0 /d            77.5                      54.5
UOUSTEY (PERCEN                    2.0         4.0        7.0 71             9.7                      18.3
PARTCIPATION RAZE (PRCET)
TOTAL                             39.1        37.7        37.7              39.3                      36.8
HUIZ                              61.4        59.3        58.6              50.9                      47.1
:EHALE                            17.8        16.9       17.6               2S.1                      27.2
ECONIC DEPENDENcr RATIO              1.1         1.2        1.2                1.3                      1.3
iURSH DoE r0
PERCENT OP PVATE I IS
RECEIVED By
-ICGEST SZ or  OSEHOnL            21.5
HIGHESr 200 or HOUSUOLDS          44.6
LOWESr 20S OF HOUSEUOLUS           7.7
LOWS? 4sr o0 oMrs Ds              19.3
n             G    s
-TAD ABSOUE POWr  INC
LEVL CUSS Pn  CAPITA)
0*                                 ..          ..        68.0 la           165.5                     590.7
URMAL                              ..          ..        56 7a              95.0                    275.3
ESTIMATED  ULJZA    POVERTY nH      -
LEVRL CUSS PER CPrIA
URNM                               ..          ..         ..               113.1                     545.6
RURAL                              ..          ..        48.0 I             67.6                    201.1
ESTIMATD PMO. BEL  ABSOLUTE
POY INCOH  LEV  (CZ)
URBAN                              ..          ..        30.0 1J            36.6
UIAL                               ..          ..        56.0 7             61.6
NO.r AVALLAM
NOT APPLItALE
NOTES
/a  Tb group  vrep  fLa each Indcator are populatiaa-uaigted aritmtSc  _amm. Covare  of contrl_
_mg the Laicators depend_ oa  avalABIlfty of daa and Ss mat  fatea.
/b   Uelem achtbemia noted. "Data for 1960 refer to any yer betwee1 19S9 A  1961; 'Data for 197  between
1969 ad 1971; and data far "MAst Rat  Reclnae  between 1981  _ 193.
/c 1977; Id 1960; l. 1978; /f 1962; /t 196S; /h 1976; /1 1968.
JUm. 1983



ANNEX I
43 -                                            Page 3 of 6
DD1NITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATOS
Now Althoug dw data m drwn fromoutn merayjudpi die met audionative and relabe. it should alm be noed that thy my not be mnmemtaonlly
comparble bum.o dt lack at sraditd    de^_tane and conpes ued by diffems counut in coletung tie data. The data am nondhm& uemul to
dumb.odsofiaid.adino mdm and echactez atain tmajr daicrece betweencauntsi.
Tu referenes poapa am (I) t  -  eotitty group of te aubjet country and (2) a country group  ith somwh t bhigher ei mome tn the country
group oft ebjetcount (ut trHish inCeOil ExpoerSpwhere -Middk Income North Aricand Mtddle East" eoshe. becabuectmoranger
cmocu'tur!aUSi) in the erenee goup data the *avru -populie l weaghted ainetc _     or eindicator and iown nly when maonty
o(diwcountneiagroupbudatafor thtindiator. Sincotheoperaecuntrimangtmndaordependsontheavalabilityadataaundintumfnerm.
cautio mut beercid in atingaetne indior to another flue aver ageenly umeoul incompan the valiue  mindcatra atimne anmong
dte noiny and refree peep
AREA (thousand sq.ks)                                         Crude Bith Rte (per th.assd)-Number of live binhs in the year
Teul-Total surface srna coprising land are and inladwatners;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1993 data.
1960. 1970 and 1993 data.                                    Cmr  Death Re (per theJmadb-Number of deaths in the year
A,rkww-Estimate of agriculturatl are used temporinly or       per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1993 data.
permanently for crops, pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to    CGrm Rqrodweda Rae-Average number of daughters a wnoman
lie fallow, 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                         will bear in her normal reproductive period if she expeiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averagesending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current      in 1960. 1970. and 1933.
market price, calculated by same conversion nethod as World   F       Jhi1-Acrq. Annal (thmsands)-Annual num-
Badk Atlas (198143 bais); 1983 data                           ber of acceptors or birth-ontrol devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTlON PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family planning progrm.
consumption of commercial primay energy (coal and lignite.    FAsdlpPtiomlag-Lsam (pensrof spae numefl)-Thepercen-
petrokum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclar and geothermal elec-    tar of married women of dtild-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husb    sare practicing any form of contraception. Women
1992 dau.                                                     of child-bearing age are geneally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPUTATION AND VITAL STATISTCS                               groups.
ants  ap.is. S  Yew (vemaidr4-As of July 1; 1960.1970.       FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1993 data.
Lithe  Atp.hri.u (percee  f torets-Ratio of urbatn to totatl    'le fF.d. P wria hPer Cqpk  (P19-71 a 10N)-Idex of per
population: differentwdefinitionsofurnare   my affectcompar-  capita annual production or all rood commodities. Production
abilitym o iff t ataaog ounris 1960u1970 amndma a1993  coma   excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food comnmodities
ability ofdata among countties 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include primary eommodities (e.g. sugacane instead of sugar)
-OP&iadon -fv*t&m                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popultaot in year 2000-Tbe projection of population for 2000  excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy sepatdy. Starang with information on    vegetables, fruits, nuts. sugacane and ugpr bnt. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Agpregte production of each country is based
inernational migrtion in the base yer 1980. thes parametes    on national average producer price weights 196165. 1970. and
were projected at ive-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 datt.
assumptons unti the population becuam stationary.               r Cpita Su*pifCnfarlea (pen stfn    dreseiomt u-Comput-
Staonary popaluoum-Is one in which  e and  x-specific mor-    ed from caloric equivalent ofnet food supplies avaiable in country
tality  tes have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
aetility rates have simultaneously remained at replaemnt level  tion, imports less exports. and changs in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exdude animal feed, seeds for use in agrWiculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rte, the age structure is also  food procrsing, and losses in distribution. Requirements wre
constat. and the growth rate is zero. The staionary population  estimated by FAO based on physiologicl needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the piojected characteist  of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 200, and the rae of dedine of fertility  age and sex distribution of populion nd allowing 10 percent for
rate to replcaceent evel,                                     waste at household kveL; 1961, 1970 and 1982 dat
Populrm Afuemrmam-Is the tedency for population growth to     Ar Cate Supply of Atels (grow prt dpj-4Protein content of
continue beyond the time that repla mat-levd ferlity ha beein    percapita net supply offood perday. Net supply offood is defined
achived; that is. even ater the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimte stationary population to the population in  day dnd 20 rams of animal and pulse protein. or which 10 grams
the yr t. given the asmption tat faetility remains at replac-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
meat klv  from year  onward. 1995 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grs of animal protein as an
-            DattY                                            average for the world proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
hr sqln.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
tare) of tol ara; 1960,1970, and 1993 data.                   Per Capita hrels Suwp   From AnfmisdbPhlei-Protein supply
her sqkn. qgricdwa Jaun-Computed as above for agicultural     of food derived from animals and puLses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960 1970. and 192 data                            1970 and 1977 data.
hpsflo. Age St iewe (penej-Cbildren (0-14 years). work-       Chi (es 1-4) Dth BRt (per thouwdj-Number of deaths of
inge (15-64yea). and rtred (65 yes and ova-) as percentage    children aed 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year populadon; 1960,1970, and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For nost develoing countnes data derived
hpiaia GrotS Rare                    Annusl growth rates of   from life tables 1960, 1970 and 1983 dataL
total mid-year population for 1960. 1960-70. ad 1970-93.      HELH
Peplede. Growt Rate  pa       -wrm--Annual growth rates       Lift Ezpeuswy a Brth (yemsj-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-it 1960-70, and 1970-83 dats.    infant would live if prevailing patters of mortality for dll people



- 44-                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its lire:    APplIt:aMer Ratio - primary. ad secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data                                       rolled in primary and secondary levs divided by number of
lafmn Manty Rate (per t)-hsandJ-Number of infants who die      teachers in the cormponding levels.
before reaching one year of ap per thousand live births in a given
year. 1960, 1970 and 1983 data-                                 CONSUMPTION
Accem to SoA WOt  (eJe  Of         S            Wbhm    d      Pntiwer Cas (per tlhsed p.pMsiuJ-Passenger cars com-
rwal-Number or people (total, urban and rural) with resonable   prise motor cars seating less than eight persons: excludes ambul-
acess to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehicks.
untrated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Ra    a         (per   d    plieA II types of receivers
boteholesi spinnI and sanitary wells) a percentags of their snpoe-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population:
tive population  In an uan n area a pubic faountain or standpost  excludes un-lkcensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not nore than 200 meters from a house may he cosidered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within  sonable access of that house. In rural aras    not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable accen would imply that the housewife or members of the
houselhold do not have tO spend a disproportionate part of the day  TR     yen 4etOSS        I-TV  receives for broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs.                           to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicensed TV
receivers in countries and in years when rgstration of TV sets was
AcceSS to Exerts Disposa (Pesmt of patlPUJtlOix-foraft whan.    in effct.
fd rraL-Number of people (total. urban. and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  *wspaw Crculviev (pr thaeaSpaplaaio-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of -daily general interest newspaper. defined as a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water by water-   periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the usc of pit privies and simi lar installations.  Itus considered to be -daily' if it appears at least four times a week.
Pop.httim per Physkidaa-lopulation divided by number of prac-   C unm  Ama.l Anrendaca poer C$ta per Yew-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number or tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
PapSub. per Naiin  Persoe-Ptpulation divided by number of       drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practicl nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                        LABOR FORCE
Puhia. per Heospitl B-,easl whas, ad mi oFbpulation             Total Labor,are (thfailm tJ-Economically active persons. in-
(totaL urban. and nrral) divided by their respective number of  eluding armed forces and unemnployed but exduding housewives.
hospital beds avaiable in public and privale gencral and speralized  students. -tc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and reabilitation p eniers. Hospitals a d espablishments  various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanenty staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Feumk (pereDt)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.  force.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricutur (perceut)-Labor force in farning. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                          Industry (perceuts-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Adadua  pwe Hfosital hi-Total number of admissions to or        facturing and deetricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
dischargas from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Parkidp a  A  (peu)r-total. mu_e ajidemParticipation
HOUSING                                                         or activity rates are computed as totaL male and female labor force
Average SiZe of If.ueh  (panaon per Ahe.ehald)-rt. wham.        as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
a-drl-A  houseold consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILOs
litnLg quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflectingage-sex structureof the population. and
may not be included an the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average NVumber of Perm= per Roam-total, wham, ad rwal-         Ecaonisc Deptedty RatiRatio of population under 15. and
Avenge number or persons per room in at urban. and rura         65 and over. to the working age population tthose aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellingL respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied -parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Peeage of DweUiaWs  ith Ekecricit-roeal mrwm, ad rural-         Percentae of Toral Diposablel         (hark in cash ad kaidj-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quaners as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban. and rural dwellings respectively.          hold income.
EDUCATlON                                                       POVERTY TARGET CROUPS
A*dted Efwosew Ratios                                           The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pwnay school - taot. nmale and fGemak-Gross totaL male and     levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
femal enrollment of all ages at the primary levd as percentages of  Esi_med Ahm  Povrty Incom  Level (U15 pfe capis) -wam
respective primary school-ge populations. While many countries  ad  ar-Absolute poverty income level is that income levd
consider prmr school age so be 6-11 year others do not. The     below which a minimnal nutritionally adequate diet plus cssential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esthnasd Reaii Pery Imcom  Levd (115pe cepaj-wha
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some ncRural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  arage per capit personal income Of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                                   from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondry school - total. male and female-Computed as abovm     lngin urban areas.
secondary education requires at klast our years of approved psi-  Est F.oed Populat So w Ahsolme Poery Income Levd (per-
mary instruction; provides general. vocationaL or teacher training  ce_)-whan ad rural- Parcent of population (urban and rural
instruction for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are absolute poorR
ence courses are geneally exduded.
Vacatimal Enrdlm ni (peret of secondavj-Vocational institu-               Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical indusuriaL or other programs which operte       Economic Analysis and Projections Departnment
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



ASE I
-45 - 
Pap 5 of 6
EURO
EhER6ENCY COTTON PRORAN
ECOfNOIC INICATORS t
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1995                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (1, cnstat 1977 prices)
USt KIn.     Z                         1977-1982          1983-1904           1984-1985
GOP at Harket Prices                  646       100
Currgnt Account Balance             -06.7       -13                       -4.9                   0.4              19.9
Exports of Goads, IFS                57.8         9
lmports of Goods, IFS               124.0        19
WOTPUT IN 1995                                                          GOVERNIENT FINANCE
Central Goverament
Yalue  Added                                                     CFAF hln.     2 of 60P
US$ Nln.     I
i905     1995   1975
Agriculture                           204        44
Industry                              136        21                     Current Receipts                  21.0      7.0      14.0
Services                               226       35                     Current Expenditures              26.0      9.4      16.0
Current Balance                  -5.0      -1.7     -2.0
Total                               646       100
OSUEY AND CREDIT
(billions of CFAFJ                 1992     1903      1904     1995
honey and Quasi-money                34.6      42.4     67.9     71.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector         11.8      11.0     10.5      3.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector        30.0      32.5     45.9   .65.0
oney and Quasi-money as I GDP        15.0      18.0     2S.0    24.9
Annual percentaqe change in:
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   -6.9     -4.5   -65.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   8.3     41.2     41.6
* Figures for 1985 are preliminary estimates. Because of the disruptive effects
of the civil war on Chad's statistical services, the figures in this annex are
incomplete and should be interpreted with caution.



-46                                                        m
Pag 6 of 6
TRIUE PAMENITS AND CAPITAL FLOIIS
BALANCE O PAYNMETS                                                  IIERCHADISE EXPOTltS (AVERAGE 1962-151
1983    1984     1995                                                 US0 KIn.    1
(millions of US$1
Cotton                                 60.5      80
Exports of Goads, EFS               73.1   111.7    57.5               Total NIrchndise Exports               74.9      100
Imports of uods, EFS              -115.7  -129.4  -124.0
Resource Sap (deficit   -)         -42.4   -17.7   -46.5
EITERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1915
Interest Pay mets and                                                                                     Ut$ Kln.
Other Factor Payments (net)       -52.6   -62.4  -101.2
ket Tranfers                        96.6    15.9    91.1             Public & Pub. Guaranteed Debt             13b
-       -        -                 Non-guaranted Private Debt               n.a.
Balance on Current Account          -9.6      5.8   -96.7                                                    --
Total Debt, Outstanding & Disbursed       136
Direct Foreign Investment           -1. 1    7.5    51.6           DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1985
et NLT Borrowing                    -1.8    -1.0      12.2                                                    1
Short-term Capital,
Errors and Obissions               20.1     2.4    -9.7             Public & Pub. Guaranteed Debt              14
Exchange Gurantee                    3.2      4.9     3.6            Non-guranteed Private Debt               n.a.
--                             -                                       -Total Debt, Outstanding & Disbursed       14
Overall Balance                     11.8    19.7   -28.0
I8/IDA LENDING, Decemer 1995 (KIn. of 0S$)
I0RD     IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1983    1984    1995             Outstanding & Disbursed                   0.0    39.9
Undisbursed                               0.0    15.5
CFAFIUSS                          391.0   4346.9   449.26 4
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed            0.0    55.4



-47 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
THIE STATUS OF BANK  GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(as of March 31, 1986)
Amount (less cancellations)
US$ Millions)
Credit                                                 IDA      Undisbursed
Number     Year   Borrower      Purpose
Twelve credits fully disbursed                        29.58
489-1     1976       Chad      Irrigation              8.00          1.10
664       1976       Chad      Rural Project Funds  12.00           5.54
739       1977       Chad      Sahelian Zone           1.90         0.52
811       1978       Chad      Third Education         8.30         7.70
TOTAL now held by IDA                      59.78          14.86
of which has been repaid                    4.49
Total now outstanding                      55.29
Amount sold                   3.3
of which has been repaid      3.3
Total now held by Bank and IDA             55.29
Total undisbursed                               14.86
I/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



-48 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
CHAD
COTTON EMERGENCw PROGRAM
SUPPLEMENTARY PROGRAM DATA SHEET
SECTION I - TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(1)  Time taken to prepare project            2 months
(2)  Project prepared by:                     Government, CCCE/CFDT,
consultants and IBRD
(3)  Initial discussions with IDA:            November 1986
(4)  Appraisal mission:                       March 1986
(5)  Negotiations:                            May 1986
(6)  Planned date of effectiveness:           July/August 1986
SECTION II - SPECIAL IDA IMPLEMENTATION ACTION
Provision has been made for retroactive financing to cover the costs
of the audit of Cotontchad's 1984/85 accounts, and the recruitment of a
Program Coordinator (para. 96).
SECTION III - SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF THE CREDIT
The conditionality of the proposed credit is formulated in the
Government's Letter of Sector Policies of May 21, 1986 attached as
Annex VI. The key conditions are listed below:
(a) the conditions of effectiveness of the Credit are:
(i) selection, satisfactory to !DA, of a Program
Coordinator/Financial Controller who will report
directly to Cotontchad's Director General;
(ii) selection by Cotontchad of a Financial Director and a
Chief Accountant approved by IDA.
(b) Disbursement of the Second Tranche would be contingent upon
the Government and Cotontchad making significant and
satisfactory progress in implementing the Emergency
Rehabilitation Program, as described in the Letter of
Development Policies, notably in completing the following
actions in a manner satisfactory to the Association and
consistent with the objectives of the Rehabilitation
Program:



4-ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(i) completion of an external audit of Cotontchad for FY
1985/86;
(ii) enactment and diffusion of the Decree abolishing
subsidies on farm inputs;
(iii) actions to rationalize the number of cotton-ginneries;
(iv) completion of the reorganization of Cotontchad's
financial and accounting management;
(v) satisfactory solution to the problem of arrears owed to
the banking system.



ARX IV
- 50 -
CHAD
EMERGENCY COTTON PROGRIl
Organizatlon of Cotton ProductHon and Prooesing
764db A~~~~oduot.                  Cotton Ulntoftr
j~]                                                                             CordelBoritchod- W > _ _ _ __ __ 2 IRi
~ Short TermCredamic
Asdbcoit Shod      -iP*rrykrw_   iorylancrlm.- CtbsttA
ur~~~~d ci O.NDR.
CTemi OMk
-I- - --d wSeeds
____'    tvlces Pdmar am"                          SW Tom                                                                        AdW    an o
Ter                                                                                                       TchW-*ocog
Wald Bank-0521:



- 51 -
CHAD                      ANNA V
Page 1 of 3
EMERGENCY COTTON PROGRAM
Cotonchad Organization and Statutes
1.       Cotton production in Chad began in 1928 with "Cotonfran", a pri-
vate company of French-Belgian origin which was involved in the marketing
and processing of cotton. It was replaced In 1971 by Cotonchad, a semi-
public company managed with participation of French governmental agencies,
French semi-public companies, Chadian banks and the Chadian Government.
2.       Cotonchad's capital holdings now amount to CPAF 3.8 billion
(US$11 million). Ownership of the company is shared as follows:
Chadian Republic 36%
CSPC 39Z
CFDT 17Z
CCCE 2%
BTCD 3%
BIAT 1.6%
BICIT 1.5%
3.       The statutory goals of the company are broad: "Marketing of seed-
cotton; ginning and marketing of cotton and cotton by-products; and parti-
cipation in any agricultural development operation in Chad at the indus-
trial and marketing levels, as well as at the production level".
4.       The Board of Directors comprises eleven members: 8 representa-
tives of the Chadian Government, 2 of CFDT and 1 of the local banks. The
Board determines the general policy and objectives of the company in accor-
dance with instruction received from the supervising ministry. The
President is chosen by the Board from among its members. The Director
General is chosen by the Board but cannot be a member of the Board. He is
the one in charge of running the company.
5.       The relationship between the Chadian Government and Cotonchad is
set forth in a convention. The present convention, effective since
November 1, 1985 covers ten years. It grants Cotonchad exclusive rights to
market seed-cotton in Chad, and, consequently, also requires Cotonchad to
purchase all seed-cotton that is produced in Chad. The convention also
defines the relationship between the CSPC and Cotonchad. The processing
and marketing of oil and soap is governed by two other conventions between
the Government and Cotonchad. Cotonchad has also a convention entitled
"Prestation de services" with CFDT, which deals with technical assistance
and various other services required by Cotonchad and provided by CFDT.
6.       Cotonchad hAs operational divisions for Production, Processing,
Finance, Administration and Commercial Affairs. The Production Division is
based in Moundou, while the others are based in N'Djamena. Cotonchad has a
Control Department which was within the office of the Chairman. At negoti-
ations, Government and Cotonchad have agreed to transfer the control
department within the office of the Director General. The control depart-
ment will be headed by the Program Coordinator firanced by IDA. It is
divided into a) a general inspector's office in charge of management
control and services inspection and b) a financial control office in charge
of the financial control and internal auditing.



COTONTCHAD
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Board of Directors
Financial Controller 2/                        Chairman of the Board 1/                 Cabinet
Financial Advice
Financial Control
Management Control
Internal Audit                                                                                                          lX
Director General
Production                    Mar eting       Financial        Administrative    Oil and Soap
Division                      Division        Division         Division           Processing
Division
(for cotton)   Accounting,      Personnel,
Budgeting,      General Affairs,
Disbursements,  Insurance
Processing     Technical       Transport                      Tax                                                 Dispatching
Subdivision    Subdivision    Subdivision                                                                         Center
1/ The position of Chairman of the Board/Director General was split Into two
separate positions in 1985 as part of the Governmentts reorganization of Cotontchad.                                          111
2/ The position of Financial Controller was created in 1985 to tighten control
over expenditures as part of the Government's reorganization of Cotontchad.
Under the program, this position will be assumed by the Program Coordinator,
within the office of the Director General.



COTONTCHAD
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART *
as of May 1986
Board of Directors
Chairman of the Board                        Cabinet
Program Coordinator/                              Director General
Financial Controller
Production                    MarHeting       Finmncial       Administrative    Oil ad Soap
Division                      Division        Division        Division           Proceasnlng
Division
(for cotton)   Accounting,      Personnel,
Budgeting,      General Affairs,
Disbursements,  Insurance
Processing     Tec nical       Transport                     Tax                                                Dispatching
Subdivision    Subdivision    Subdivision                                                                       Center
* As agreed at negotiations, May 23, 24, and 25, 1986.



54A-                          ANNEX VI
EMERGENCY COT-TON PROGRAM                   Page 1 of 8
World Cotton Market and Prospects
1.       The  price  of medium  staple  cottons  in lnternational  markets  has
fallen sharply over the last two years and in early April was 1M.6 US cents
per kilogram for middling 1-3/32 Inch quality, c.l.f. north Euro,1., 45: below
the  1983/84 season average.   The serious  imbalance that caused thls price
decline is being addressed by policy changes In the major producing countries
that hold most of the surplus stocks.
2.       World  cotton  production  has  greatly  exceeded  consumption  since
1983/84, raising estimazed end-season stocks (July 31, 1986) to 10.2 million
tons from 5.4 million tons two years earlier.  This estimated stock level is
equivalent  to  about   7.7  months  of  current  consumption,  compared  to
internationally agreed reckoning that cotton stocks equivalent to 4.5 to 5.0
months consumption are desirable to accomodate tradlng without exerting undue
pressure on prices.   Taking that as a guide, the liquidation of 3.6 to 4.3
million tons of cotton stocks from 1986/87 forward would appear to be an
appropriate goal for the restoration nf cotton supply/demand balance.
3.       World cotton consumption increased at an average rate of 1.6% per
annum from 1970 to 1984, representing an average volume growth of about
238,000 tons per year.   If continued at this rate, consumption growth alone
would not accomplish the needed removal of excess cotton stocks for many years
(15-18 years), even if production was reduced to and maintained at the current
consumption level.   Cotton consumption during 1985/86 is benefitting from a
special program in China to utilize 500,000 tons in non-spinning uses--
primarily padding--but this is a one-time event.   The price declines since
1983/84 are encouraging greater use through the increased value to consumers
and marginal increases in cotton's share of the fibers market due to improved
competitiveness  with substitute  fibers.    The weighted average response of
consumption to price changes in the industrial and developing countries should
raise world cotton use by around 400,000 tons over a two-year period.
4.       The bulk of  the worldts surplus cotton stocks is located in two
countries,  China  and  the  United  States.    A  massive  increase  in  cotton
production in China originated with agricultural reforms in the late 1970s and
reached a peak of 6.2 million tons in 1984.   As a result, cotton stocks in
China increased by about 800% between 1980 and 1984. By the measure of stock
adequacy discussed above, China-s end-season cotton stocks, estimated at 4.28
million tons, contains a surplus of around 2.8 million tons. The build-up in
cotton stocks in the United States occurred largely during 1985/86 when world
cotton prices fell below internal support levels, reducing estimated exports
to 435,000 tons from 1.4 million tons in each of the two previous seasons.
End-season stocks are estimated at 2.1 million tons, 1.2 million tons above
the legislative stock target of 871,000 tons.
S.       Chinese  authorities  took  measures  in  1985/86  to  reduce  cotton
production, improve the quality of the cotton produced and to expand their



- 55 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 8
expc.r: capabl.lity. With cotton area estimated to have bcen reduced by 252 and
vicldb by 11%, production Is sllghtly lower than expected offtake.  Even so,
stocks rema1n equivalent to one year's consunptlon plus exports.
6.       Recent  US  Agricultural  legislation addresses  the need  to restore
cn-pe'titive prices for US cotton and reduce production until thc surplus Is
liquidated.   The  legislation provides for a multi-year (1986-1990) cotton
acreage reduction program, lower rates for cotton entering the loan program
and lower loan repayment rates to m3ke US cotton competltive with cotton from
other countries.
.7.       Cotton acreage in other countries is estimated to have declined by
about 32 In 1985/86 in response to the 21% decline In cotton prices in the
previous  season.    Most  of that acreage  reduction occurred  In the Latin
American countries which have historically been the most responsive to price
changes.  The low responsiveness of aggregate cotton acreage to changes in
cotton prices in these countries limits their expected contribution to the
world stock reduction to marginal proportions.
8.       The measures being taken by the largest cotton producing countries
lend optimism that the cotton surplus will be liquidated, but the size of the
excess stock indicates that it will be a task probably lasting several
years.  During the early years of this supply adjustment cotton prices will
remain under downward pressure, in part due to the return of price
competitiveness of US cotton and also the pressure from the market
accomodation to Chinese cotton gaining a larger share of the export market.
The interim period of low prices will encourage production adjustments in
other countries.    Depending on the scale of progress in reducing stocks,
cotton  prices  could  begin  recovering  in  real  terms  by  1988.   The  full
restoration of supply/demand balance, expected in the early 1990s will ease
the downward pressure on cotton prices and they will resume their long-term
trend.   1987 is expected to be the nadir of the present cotton price cycle
measured in 1985 constant S with an average of 92 cents per kg. for middling
1-3/32 inch quality cif North Europe. By 1990, partial real price recovery is
forecast to around 116 cents and full recovery by 1995 of 161 cents.   The
additional rise in the real price forecast for cotton between 1995 and 2000
reflects the increased cost of producing substitute synthetic fibers
originating in the cost of petroleum, the source of the petrochemical
feedstock for those fibers.
EPDCS
r:ay 1, 1986



TABLE. 1:        COTTON - PRODUCTION BY MAIN COUNTRIES AND ECOO!NIC REGIONS
('000 TONS)
ACTUAL                                          Pkf1TP.1(TI:D
AVERAGES
COUNTR I ES/
E(:EINr)tlIP;S           1969-71      1979-RI     1984      1985 /A    19A6       19R7     198R            I990     2)nnn
INPUSTRtEIJ               2,306        3,141    3,090    3,209         2,61n    2,560    2,620           2,62%    3,
UN ITrD STATES        2,225        3,004    2,894    2,947        2,35n    2,300    2,350            2,3Sn    2JROL
C:ENTRA1.1Y PL.ANNED       2,150       2,745    2,412    2,647         2,66n    2,670    2,665           2,7R5    2,980
uISSR                 2,132        2,733    2,400    2,635        2,650    2,660    2,655            2,775    2,970
IDFVELOP I NG              7,765       8,517   12,292   11,186        3n,505   3n,470   10,510          3nf,913   11,2fD
AFRICA                1,119        1,168    1,229    1,292         1,115    1,220    1,260           1,tRn    1,46i
AMIERICA              1,622         1,646    1,522    1,695        1,550    1,540    1,6RO           1,777i    I,8U
AS IA                 4,231        5,018    8,711    7,420        7, I 0    7,040    6,86U           7, nni   g,,ti
CIIINA             2,154        2,627    6,077    4,160        4,250    4,200    4,000            4, .10 n, , no
SOUTIF.RN EUROPE       593          6"J5      830       779        680       670       710            765       R75
WORLn                     12,221       14,403   17,794   17,042       15,775   15,700   15,795          16,325   19,600
/A  ESTIMATE.
SOnIRCES:  FAO, PRODUCTION YEARBOOK TAPES (ACTUAL);
WORLD RANK, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS & PROJECTIONS DEPARTMENT (PROJECTED).
o



TABLv. 2:        COTTON - HILL CONSUMPTION BY MAIN REGIONS
('000 TONS)
ACTUAL                                            PKROJECTEI)
AVERAGES
COIJNTR I ES/
IECONntlIRS              1969-71       1979-81      1984      1985 /A    1986       1987      1988            1990      2"')'
lNI)USTR I Al.             3,824         3,029    2,945    2,970         3,025    2.960    2,960             2,845    2,571)
NRRlTII AIIIRICA      1,837         1,391     1,261     1,275       1,3ifl    1,300    1,325            1,O5.     1,11
iEF-l0                 1,110           805       848      855          84n       830       815             7f11      aR5
JAPAN                    751           720       721       725         720       715       710             7nn       475
(.KNTRALI.Y I'PLANNEI)     2,361         2,568    2,635    2,645         2,765    2,785    2,700             2,135    2,QIS
DEIVEL)IPINC               5,658         8,574    9,594    9,835        jo,oln   10,455   10,700            11,13-5  jj,q1s
AFRICA                   404           616       648      690          7111      715       725             7% IQI
A1RF.IC.A                761         1,051    1,014    1,025         1,0(4    1,070    I,1(m0            1,15')    1,1l}
ASIA                   4,052        6,221    7,n88    7,240          7,3Rn    7,755    7,950            R,.;R,   In,.;4n
CIIINA              1,882        3,346    3,912    4,020         4,120    4,110    4,350             4,72%    5,611')
T 11)[A             1,160        1,301     1,471     1,530       1,55')    1,570    1,590            I, h:!'    I,sn
SOLUTHI.RN EUROPE        440           685       844       880         891)      915       925             95',    1,14 1
wnRLD                     11,844        14,171    15,174   15,450       15,800   16,200   16,360            16i,915  lo4n,i
/A  E;STIMATE
SOlJKCE!:  INTERNATIONAL COTTON ADVISORY COMMITTEE (ACTUAL);
WORLD SANK, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS & PROJECTIONS DEPARTMENT (PROJKCTED)                                                 |
oH,



TABLE 3:         COTTON - GROSS EXPORTS BY MAIN COUNTRIES AND ECONOMIC REGIONS
('000 TONS)
ACTUAL                                          PROJECTED
AVERAGES
COIINTRI ES/
EmnNOMIIES               1969-71      1979-81      1984     1985 /A    1986       1987     1988           199')     2n0(n
INI)IJSTRIAI. COUNTRIES      753        1,622    1,612       764       1,125    1,515    1,470           1,515    1,61')
IJNITE) STATF.S         719        1,540    1,497        500       1,000    1,400    1,350           1,4n0     1,5nf '
C(NTRALLLY 'IAt4NF.D1        521          866      651       730         550      635       630            61n 0hs
DeVEltlOPtN(               2,673        1,998    1,968    2,649        2,550    2,450    2,480           2,555    2,655
AFRICA                  914          621       687       748        600       580       600            645       Rin
AMlFRICA                927          661       487      610         450       425       430            461)      575
ASIA                    487          459       557    1,043       1,280    1,245    1,240            1,235    I,I1S
CtIINA                22            8       196      261         435       490       500            520      5V11)
I'AKISTAN            174          210        80      435         500       450      440             460       525
SOUTIIF.RN l.UROPE      345          258       237       248         220      200       210            215       IRS
WORIn                      3,948        4,487    4,231    4,143        4,225    4,600    4,580           4,6gn    5,111n
/A  ESTIMATIE
SOURCES:  FAI), TRADE YEARBOOK TAPES (ACTUAL);
WORI,I) BANK, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS & PROJECTIONS DEPARTMNT (PROJE:TED).



TABLE 4:         COTTON - GROSS IMPORTS BY MAIN COUNTRIES AND ECONOMIC REGIONS
('000 TONS)
ACTUAL                                           PROJECTED
AVERKAGE.S
C01INTRI1E.S/
F(}NO'I FS              1969-71      1979-81      1984      1985 /A    1986       1987      1988           i990      ?Of
INnusTrRi.                 1,980        1,655    1,690    1,614         1,673    1,704    1,670            1,653     1,5%1
ERFC-I1                1,059          782       825      810         817       830       813            790        685
JAPAN                    733          711       708      642         7n1       72n       71n            700        6%n
C:IN'rRAI.I.Y PL,ANNF.D      783          700       779       789         8o0      801       813             Rl5       825   9 ,
E:VE:L.nPINc               1,161        2,314    1,966    1,822         1,952    2,090    2,107            2,212     2, 7 57
A FRKICA                  59           70       150       167         173      179       185             19R       28f)
AMERICA                   79           88       104        95          96      0no        98              9q       In7
ASIA                     826        1,8AI    I1,38    1,229         1,343    1,460    1,462            1,5in    I.R'V,'
SOIUTIIIRN l.llROPE      196          275       325       331         340      351       362             3RS       S1$
WoRLU                      3,924        4,668    4,435    4,225         4,425    4,595    4,590            4,681o    5,1311
/A ISTIMIATE.
SOURCES:  FAn, TRADE YEARBOOK TAPES (ACTUAL);
WORLD HANK, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS & PRUJECTIONS DEPARTIENT (PROJECTED).
04
o-h
co-



A60-  EN   VI
Page 7of 8
TABLE 5:     COTTON - BEC; I N; I Xv-SEASON STOCKS /A
('OUCI TCONS)
1981     1982      1983     1984      1985 /E      1986 /F
,CHINA                  521       412      657    1,691    4,304         4,282
UNITED STATES          581    1,444    1,728        604       893        2,083
OThERS               3,516    3,630    3,063    3,069    4,081           3,859
WORLD                4,618    5,486    5,448    5,364    9,278          10,224
WORLD STOCKS AS
. OF CONSUMPTION        32        37        36       35        59           65
IA  AUGUST I OF INDICATED YEAR.
/-E ESTIMATED.
OF FORECAST
SOURCE: FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE, US DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE.



-61-                             ANN   VI
Page 8 of 8
TABLE 6:        CUTT0!; PRI CES /A
1979-19SWACTUAL,  196-2000 PROJECTEb
CURRENT S                        CONSTANT 1985 S
1979                     169                                  177
1980                     205                                  196
1981                     185                                  175
1982                     160                                  154
19P.3                    185                                  184
198!1                    179                                  18i)
1985                     132                                  132
1986                     106                                   93
1987                     110                                   92
1988                     121                                   95
1989                     148                                  109
1990                     166                                  116
1995                     282                                  161
2000                     352                                  166
/A  COTTON OUTLOOK "A" INDEX FOR :IDDLING 1-3/32 INCH QUALITY, CIF NORTH
EUROPE.



- 62 -
ANNEXVTI
Page 1 of 8
(Translation from original French)
Washington, May 21, 1986
Mr. A. W. Clausen
President, IDA
Washington, DC
LETTER ON ADJUSTMENT POLICIES IN THE COTTON SECTOR
Mr. President:
1.        I have the honor to submit to you this letter on sector policies
for the cotton sector which has been approved by the Government of Chad.
This letter describes the principal measures that the Government intends to
take to rehabilitate Chad's cotton sector.
2.        The decline in the world price of cotton, which has fallen by
over 50X since 1984, has had very serious effects on Chad, threatening the
viability of this sector which dominates the country's economy. Since
1985, Cotontchad's production costs have been higher than the sale price on
the world market. Combined with internal management difficulties in
1984/85, this situation resulted in a deficit of CFAF 18.1 billion in
1984/85 and is expected to produce a deficit of CFAF 19.4 billion in
1985-86. 1/
3.        Chad cannot afford the disappearance of Cotontchad since that
would deprive a large part of the country's population of a stable monetary
income, threaten the entire banking sector with bankruptcy, accentuate the
balance of payments disequilibrium, and plung Chad into a deep recession,
with incalculable social and political consequences.
4.        In view of the seriousness of the situation, the Chadian Govern-
ment and Cotontchad irmediately took a number of emergency measures, such
as strengthening Cotontchad's management structures, setting up strict
expenditure controls laying off 450 non-essential workers, freezing wages,
eliminating bonuses and benefits in kind, suspending new investments, and
closing the Pointe-Noire branch office.
5.        In addition, in November 1985 the Chadian Government appealed to
the World Bank for assistance with the rehabilitation of the cotton sector
1/  Excluding estimated input program deficit of CFAE 4 billion.



-63 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2-of 8
and requested that the Bank serve as coordinator of the overall donor
effort.
6.        Realizing that it was necessary to forge ahead rapidly with the
adjustment measures in orde;r to reduce Cotontchad's production costs to the
greatest extent possible, t'e Government appolnted a task force (comith de
r6flexion sur la filiere coton), comprising the principal actors in the
cotton sector, to study the situation. Following the Comittee's pro-
posals, which were supported by CCCE, CFDT and the EEC, the Chad Government
took a series of emergency measures that were announced to the donors at a
meeting held in N'Djamena on March 12, 1986. These measures represent the
basis of the emeigency program for the cotton sector. A number of
additions and details were lated incorporated, following recommendations by
the donors.
7.        These measures, some of which have already been implemented,
should make it possible to reduce Cotontchad's production costs while
preserving the country's basic cotton production capacity. This is
essential in the absence of any immediate possibilities for diversifi-
cation, the aim being to achieve financial equilibrium as quickly as
possible. On the basis of the World Bank's projections of world cotton
prices, Cotontchad would break even between 1989 and 1991.
8.        The program, adopted by the Government and shown in detail in the
Annex, constitutes the first phase of the program of actions designed to
save the cotton sector; this phase will cover the 1986/87 and 1987/88
seasons. Additional measures m&y be added to this program at the review
meeting (reunion de supervision) to be held before September 30, 1986, in
the light of the findings of the cotton sector study executed by the World
Bank and financed oy UNDP. The second phase, which will start in 1988,
will incorporate new actions based on the result of this study and of other
future studies and of the first phase program.
9.        The Government undertakes to implement rapidly the measures
included in the rehabilitation program at the level of all the parties
concerned: producers, Cotontchad, CSPC, ONDR and IRCT. These measures,
along with their implementing agencies and implementation schedules, are
outlined in the Annex, which forms an integral part of this letter. The
essential elements of the program at the various levels are as follows:
(a) Producers:
(i) Freezing of the producer price at its present level for"
the 1986/87 and 1987/88 seasons.  During this time, a
method of fixing the producer price will be studied, to
be introduced during the 1988/89 season.
(ii) Elimination over two years (before the 1988/89 cotton
season) of input subsidies.
(iii) Restriction of areas under production to a maxitum of
75,000 ha during the program period.



- 64 -
ANNEXVII
Page 3 of 8
(b) Cotoutchad;
(i) Reduction of the number of operating ginnerie. to 5;
(ii) Sale oi non-essential assets;
(iii) Closing of the Bangui branch office;
(iv) Reduction of personnel;
(v) Reorganization of purchasing centers; and
(vi) Improvement of internal controls.
(c) Government and development and research institutions:
(i) Exemption of Cotontchad from certain taxes and duties
as indicated in the Annex to this letter;
(ii) Reduction of the operating and self-financing costs of
CSPC, without any levies on the cotton sector;
(iii) Reduction of ONDR personnel and redefinition of its
goals in the light of upcoming studies;
(iv) Suspension of all payments made by Cotontehad for the
account of CSPC, in particular for the operation of
CSPC itself and of IRCT.
10.      The Government undertakes to define with Cotontchad a monitoring
plan for the implementation of these reforms, including quarterly progress
reports and semi-annual meetings with the donors.
11.      With respect to Cotontchad's exemption from cotton export taxes,
the Government undertakes tc take official action by August 30, 1986
suspending the payment of this tax by the company.
12.      The Gwiernment recognizes the necessity of finding a solution to
the problem of Cotontchad's considerable debt to the local banking system,
amounting to over CFAF 40 billion, of which CFAF 22.4 billion represents
arrears. This situation is extremely serious in view of the uncertainty it
involves regarding the financing of future crop seasons by the local
banking syst-im. Therefore the Government intends to approach BFAC in June
1986 with E view to finding a solution to the problem. It must be borne In
mind, however, that assistance from the donors, and from the IMF and under
the SPA, will be essential in negotiating this solution.
13.      All of these measures represent a major sacrifice for Chad.  The
loss of the national budget and the parastatals is estimated at close to
CFAF 4 billion in 1986. For producers in the Sudanian zone using inputs,
the elimination of subsidies represents a drop of 36Z in their net cotton
income.



- 65 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 8
14.       Despite these major sacrifices, the program set forth in this
letter will be scrupulously implemented. As soon as the results of the
detailed studies in progress are avai1.able, additional measures vill be
considered in agreement with IDA and in consultation with the other donors.
Very truly yours,
Isl H.E. Ahmed K6rim Togo!
SMcrftaire G6nfral a la Pr6sidence
Republic of Chad



CHAD
GOVERNMENT EMERGENCY PROGRAM
1986/87 and 1987/88
1. Measures Adopted in March. 1986
Responsible
Actions                                    Timing                 Institutions                Main Objectives
A. PRODUCERS
1.  Eliminate subsidies on fertilizers and             Subsidies reduced to 25%         Government          Reduce 'osses on intensive
pesticides, while freezing producer prlce          for 1986/87 and reductions                           cotton cultivation, (savings of
for seed cotton (grade 1) at 100 CFAF/kg.          by April 30, 1986 and 1987.                          US$ 7,500,000)
2. Limit intensive cotton cultivation area to a        Beginning with 1986/87 crop      Cotontchad          Reduce input costs and lialt
ceiling of 75,000 ha.  For the 1986/87 and         season.                          ONDR                total seed cotton production to
1987/88 crop seasons. possible revisions in                                                             100,000 tons in 1986/87 and
subsequent years.                                                                                       1987/88.
3.  Limit intensive cultivation to formula Fl          Beginning with 1986/87 crop      Cotontchad          Use inputs optimally while
(100 kg/ha complex); beginning in the              season.                          ONDR                continuing to encourage
1986/87 crop season, eliminate formula F2                                                               intensive cultivation.
as the stock of urea is exhausted.
B. COWTNTCHAD
4. Reorganize and rationalize network of               Beginning with the crop          Government          Reduce primary costs for
cotton-buying centers, starting in 1986/87         season.                          Cotontchad          cotton.
with a view towards reducing expenditures.
5. Discourage cotton production in marginal            Beginning with 1986/87 crop      Cotontchad          Reduce Cotontchad's transport
areas.                                             season.                          ONDR                costs by 10S in 1986/87.
6. Permanently close eight obsolete cotton             By June 30, 1986                 Cotontchad          Reduce Cotontchad's production costs      #
ginneries and suspend operations indefinitely                                                           by US$ 1,200,000 per annium.            L
in five others, leaving five operating
ginneries.



CHAD
GOVERNMENT EMERGENCY PROGRAM
1986/87 and 1987/88
I. Measures Adopted in March, 1986
Responsible
Actions                                    Timing                 Institutions               Hain Objectives
7.   egin operations at new Moundou II ginnery;       By October 31, 1987              Cotontchad          Improve resource use and
transfer gins from Moundou I to Pala.                                                                  increase efficiency of factory
cperations in order to reduce
costs.
8.  Develop and implement a plan, to reduce           In progress; to be               Cotontchad          Reduce fixed costs by
personnel costs in Cotontchad's workshops         finalized by June 30, 1986.                          US$300,000 per aun..
and garages.
9.  Close Cotontchad's branch office in               By June 30, 1986.                Catontchad          Reduce operating costs
Bangui, CAR,                                                                                           by US$250,000 per
annuin.
10. Sale of assets, including two  aircraft,          By October 31, 1986 (65          Cotontcbad          Reduce overhead costs by about
about 80 trucks and about 69 light vehicles,      trucks and 69 light                                 US$250,000 per armum; reduce
vehicles already sold).                             operating and overbead costs.
11. Develop and implement a plan to reduce            In progress (personnel           Cotontchad
overhead costs at Cotontchad's operations         reduced from 230 to 127 in
headquarters to the minimum needed for            Hay 1986; to be finalized
adequate financial and adoinistriative            by October 31, 1986.
management.
12. Increase selling price of cotton lint to the      Increase to 386.7 CFAF/kg.       Cotontchad          Increase operating revenues of
local textile mill (STT) and examine the          already adopted. Establish                           Cotontchad by US$600,000 in
review for adjusting price,                       new review system by                                 1986.                                  0 
November 1, 1986.                                                                            I
13. Stop Cotontchad's direct contributions to         Beginning in 1986.               Cotontchad          Reduce financial obligations by          
ONDR and IRCT.                                                                                         about US$1,000,000 per annu.           G



CHAD
GOVERNMN  EMERGENCY PROGRAM
1986/87 and 1987/88
I. Measures Adopted in March, 1986
Responsible
Actions                                    Timing                 Institutions               Main OblectLves
C.   OVERNHIENT
14. Suspend certain fiscal obligations of                                              Government          Reduce Cotontchad's costs by
Cotontchad, including:                                                                                 about US$10,000,000 per aumm.
i)  cotton export tax (76.8 CFAF/kg. of         Issue decree by August 30,
lint exported)                              1986.
li)  special export levy for CAA (6.06                                                                                                          1
CFAP/kg. of lint exported)                      .c
iii)  guarantee fees on bank credits, to
Cotontchad (1% of nev credits)
D. OMDR
15. Reduce staff and improve its efficiency.          In progress (421 employees       ONDR                Lover ONDR'a operating costs by
already laid off); to be                            US$700,000 per Annua.
finalized by December 31,
1986.
g. IRCT-TCHAD
16. Introduce higher lint yielding varieties to       As research permits.             IFCT, ONDR          Raise productivity of cotton
improve ginning ratio.                                                                                 lint production by increasing
ginning ratio to 40 percent by
1988/89.                                3 
F. CSPC                                                                                                                                            0
17. Reduce operating cost and ensure financial        In progress; to be               CPSC/Coton-         Elimination of all levies on            PH
self-sufficiency (without contributions from      finalized by December 31,        tchad               the cotton sector for CSPC.             Go
the Government or Cotontchad).                    1986.                                                Savings of US$300,000 per
annun.



CHAD
GOVERNMENT EMERGENCY PROGRAM
1986/87 and 1987/88
I. Measures Adopted in May 1986 (in agreement with IDA)
Responsible
Actions                                     Timing                 Institutions                 Main Objectives
A. CClONTCHAD
18, Improve Cotontchad's independent financial          Beginning immediately;           Cotontchad          Rationalize internal
control, accounting, and management.  Carry        1984/85 audit to be com-          Government          management.
out 1984/85 and 1985/86 external audits.           pleted by September 30,
Encourage Government oversight, while              1986; 1985/86 audit to be
reducing Covernment involvement in                 completed by June 30, 1987.
day-to-day financial and administrative
management.
19. Implement a monitoring plan and calendar            Submit plan to IDA by            Cotontchad          Ensure implementation of
for the execution of Cotontchad's emergency        July 31, 19861 first review                           emergency  easures.
rehabilitation measures, to be agreed upon         meeting by September 15,
with IDA, in consultation with the donors,         1986.
and to include quarterly progress reports
and semi-annual reviews of program
implementation with donors.
20. Develop and implement, if necessary, a             Additional measures to be         Government          Strengthen adjustment program
series of additional emergency measures,           presented by the Government       Cotontchad          based on furtber study and
based on the results of the Bank-executed          at review meeting in                                  preliminary results of initial
study which will be completed by July 1986.        September 1986.                                       emergency  easures.
B. CSPC
21. Develop and implement a plan to redefine           Submit plan to IDA by             Government          Create an efficient mechanism 
CSPC's functions and goals, revise its             July 31, 1987; implement by                           for stabilizing producer                cs
statutes, and reorganize the institution           September 30, 1987.                                   prices.                                0oH
accordingly.                                                                                                                                     co
C. I.R.C.T.-TCHAD
22.  Redefine research objective and program.          By July 31, 1987.                 Government          Improve efficiency of research.



- 70 -
COD                                                  ANNEX VIII
Pqe I of 4
ENERGENCY COTTON PRORA
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS: BASE SCENARIO
PROJECTED STATENENT OF CRS  FLOE
(CFAF in millions)
Notes     19B6187  1987/89  1998/09  1999/90  1190/91  191/92  194/95 19912000
SOURCES F FUNOS
Revenue fro  Main Operatims
Sales from cotton-export
Auantity sold I OOO tons)  a/                         37.8      38.3     39.5      38.5    39.5      39.5      39.5     38.5
Sale price (CFAF'OOOI                                   385      399      499       548      574      647    927.9   1172.1
Revenue from cotton-eport sale                       14553    15202    19799    21098    22099    24910    35720    45126
Sales Eros cotton-local
Quantity sold 1100O tons)                               1.5      1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5
Sale price (CFAFPOOO)                                   370      370      384       441      464      534    797.9   1017.1
Reveoue from cotton-local sale                         555      555      576       662      69       801      1197     1526
Others                                                      0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0
Subtotal                                              15109    15037    19364    21760    22795    25711    36917    46652
Revenue fru Subsidiary
Sales from soap
kantity sold (000 tons)                                  4        4        4         4        4        4         4        4
Sale price ICFAFOOO)                                   326      336      346       356      367      378       411      466
Revenue frm soap sale                                 1304     1344     1384      1424     1468     1512      1644     1964
Sales frau cotton oil                                    2597     2675     2755      2998     2923     3011      3282     3774
Sales from ground nut oil                                 200      207      213       219      226      233       254      292
Sales from seed cake                                        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0
Subtotal                                              4101      4226     4352      4531     4617     4756      5190     5930
Total revenue fro  operations                            19209    20063    23716    26291    27412    30467    42097    52582
Proceeds from borrouings
Foreign  hI                                                 0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Domestic                                                    0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0
6rants                                                      0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Subtotal                                                  0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0



-  71 -ME  VI
Pal 2 of 4
Nuts      1961/7  1M37/U   196/P  19/     1900/91  1991/92  194/95 1"9912000
Extraordinary Itens
Sales of ued vehicles & equipuuts                         400      150      150       150        0        0         0        0
Other itms0   0                                                           0        0        0             0         0        0
Subtotal                                                400      150      150       150        0        0         0        0
Other sources                                                760      300        0         0        0         0        0        0
TOTAL SOURCES                                          20369    20513    23166    26441    27412    30467    42097    52502
u-       uuu      M_  *-             OEMm     ins              uanm
Contingency on cotton price (Si)  cl                        -728        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
TOTAL SOURCES WITH PRICE COETINEICY                    19641    20513    2366    26441    27412    30467    42097   .5252
USES OF FMIDS
Rain operation
Investments: di
Vehicles and equipments
Stock
hilding
Others
Subtotal Investments                                    760      300        0         0        0        0        0         0
Production costs:
Cotton research IRCT                                      385      397      406      421       433      464      500       560
ONOR training (T.A. included)  e/                         940      965      891      919       945      973      1061     1220
Less: Charges to CNR                                     0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0
Operating costs CSPC                                        0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Crop production inputs  f/                               3675     3785    399       4016      4136     4260     4643      5340
Less: farmers'contribhtioo                           -2675    -3521    -3626    -375D   -3946    -3962   -4318    -4966
Cotton seeds production/handlino                          330      340      350      361       371      392      416       479
Cotton processing                                         605      623      642      661       691      701      765       979
Cotontchad overhead                                      1675     1649     1644      1694     1745     1797      1959     2253
Recovery gen. expense by oil aill                           0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0
Distribution expenses                                    345       355      366      377       3C8      400      436       301
Annex operations Cotootchad                               120      124      127       131      135      139       152      174
Subtotal Production Costs                             5300      4616     4701     4944      49K      5154     5614      6440
Operating Costs:
Purchase of seed cotton
Quantity purchased (O000 tons)                          100      100      100      100       100      100      100       100
Purchase price (CFAF'OOO)                             99.2      98.2     98.2     99.2      99.2     99.2     98.2      90.2
Cost of seed cotton                                  9920      9920     9820     9320      9920     9820     9820     9020



-72-                                           AMER VII
Page 3 of 4
Nots      113/6117  1917W1   190189  199"9    1990/91  1991/92  194195 19192000
Purchasing epenus see  cotton
guantity purchased 1000 tonel                          100       100      100       100      100      100       100      100
Purchasing cost                                          3       3.1      3.2      3.3       3.4      3.5       3.9      4.3
Purchasing eponse  of sed cutu                        300       310      320      330       340      350      380       430
Collection casts for see  cottu
Qantity purchausd 1000 tons)                           100       100      100       100      100      100       100      100
Colluction cost                                          7       7.2      7.4       7.6      7.9      8.1       0.9     10.2
Collection costs of sw  cotte                         700       720      70        760      790      810     B90       1020
Ginning/storagelhandling
Quntity of cattoa  fiber (000 tis)                      39      39.5       40        0 a      40       40        40       40
Cost (per ton)                                        34.1      37.2     39.4      39.5     40.7     41.9      45.7     52.6
Total ginning/storae/au1dling costs                  1330      1419     1531      1590     1129     1171      1028     2104
Transportation Factory to s51
Quantity of cotton fiber-local ( 000 tos)               1.5      1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5
Trasportation cut (CFAF000)                            3.5       3.6      3.7      3.1       3.9        4      4.4         5
Total transportation coSts factory to STT               5         5        6        6         6        6         7        B
Fiber trasportation fro  fctory to FOD
Quantity of cotto  fiber-xport ('000 tons)            37.4      37.9     39.4     39.4      38.4     39.4      38.4     39.4
Fiber transportation cost (CFIF000)                   81.5      83.9     86.5     89.1      91.7     94.4       103    118.4
Total transportation cuts factory to FOE             3049      3180     3322     3421     3521      3625     3955      4547
Export levies                                               0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Levies to CA                                               0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Levies to O9CR                                             0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0
FOB to CIF (insurance, freight, etc.)
Quantity of cotton fiber-export ('000 tons)           37.4      37.9     3B.4     39.4      38.4     38.4      39.4     39.4
CIF costs (CFAF 000)                                  31.1      32.1       33       34     35.1      36.2     39.4      45.3
Total costs FOB to CIF                               1163      1217     1267     1306      1349     1390     1513      1740
Technical assistance                                     126       143      175      202       228      229      228       228
Interests an fareers'credit gI
Quantity of fiber produced lOCOO tons)                  39      39.5       40       40        40       40       40        40
Interest charges per toe (CFAF 000)                     17        17       17       17        17       17        17       17
Total interests on farsers credit                     663       172      680      6BO      680       680      180       680
Subtotal Operating Costs                             17155    17536    17866    18105    19361    18585    Iq301    20577



_73 -                                         AE     Vill
Page 4 of 4
sot"      1936137  137/U   191119  Iti"   1990/91  991192  194/95 19912000
Subsidiary
Production cuts:
Share  f gneral expuses                                   0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0
Comm. expensn DM5                                        80       82       *5       17       90       93      101       116
Common expensn oil mill                                 855      ml       B Ul     907      934      q62     1046      1206
Subtotal                                              935      963      966       M4     1024     1055     1149      1322
Operating costs                                           1166     1201     1237      1274    1312      1351     1473     1694
Subtotal                                             1166     1201     1237     1274    1312      1351     1473      1694
Repayment of Existing debt h/
Interest payments                                      3233     3239     3289     3239    3299      3239     3299     3239
Subtotal                                             3233     329q     3289     323      3239    3239      3289     3209
Income taxes  i/                                             0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Dividends  i/                                                0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0
Others                                                       0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0
TOTAL USES OF FUNDS                                   28549    27905    21059    23506   28974   29434   30626    33322
-__-                                     23==     =s=      3.3=    s 3s  xu3=    3=                     3
Cotingency on physical expenditures (IO7   i/              986      963        0        0        0        0        0        0
TOTAL USES OF FUNDS hITH CONTINGENCY                  29535    28073   28059    2506    29974   29434    30926    33322
Increase (decrease) in cash                              -8190    -7392   -4193    -2065   -1562       1033    11271    19260
Cash balance:    Beginning                              -37000  -45180  -52572  -56765  -58930  -60392  -59359   -40080
Endi g                                -45180  -52572  -56765   -59830  -40392  -59359  -48089  -29828
Increase Idecrease) in cash, with contingencies         -9994   -960    -4193    -2065   -1562         1033    11271    19260
Increase (decrease) in cash, with contingencies and
withot interest payments                                 -6661    -5071     -904     1224     1727    4322    14560    22549
Notes:
a/ kuantities include target for improved ginning percentage. Prices as per orld Bak projections.
b/ Calculations based on revenues from Cotootchad operations only, before financing reeipts from bovernt or external reso
c/ Contingency due to uncertainty in the world price of cottan in 1986187.
di Including only investment costs for store-to be financed by CCCE. Need for eqapmit and vebicle renewals to be carefully
e/ Extension staff requirements for Sudanian zone only.
f/ Assuming elimination of subsidies after 1997.
g/ Seasonal credit (interest and principal) for purchasing inputs and buying seed cotton.
hi Including interest payments on outstanding/cumlating medium and long term lons; ecluding pricipal payments.
if Assuming siving of all taxes and levies an Cotontchad until operating deficit is eliminated.
i/ Contingency on expenditures, excluding transportation, interest paymts, investmts, and seed cotton purchases.
for the duration of the program.



.                   ma                                              2W-t rs Sxx r --'! 
..   -    -  -   -_                                                                                              I o  _e
o      a    a    a       z.                                      .       .       ...................... 
......................................                                                                                  .. .              .    ..    .    .
~.j  ~    ; 3.     . .  .  . .  .  . .  .  .                             . . . . .  .  . .  ...     .       .  Z .  .       2 
i  ~~. .                                                                . .~  . - .                   ......         
-       ~-                             ,-I
. . . . . . . -          . . .            -           ..          .
"                       -          .   ..                 . . . ....
1.              .         ..                  .       .          .       .          .       .          .       . a                             2..  .
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *                                                                      2
, ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ V                                                                                         ii:     i
-!* ,,,,,,,,,,..,............                     ............                              ..................... .. 
__;.      .9              -                          -                                                      2                            -  i       BeB---I      
S   .!.!.   --. ...   .     .    .     .    .     .....    .                             ..5...         ....          .....           ...Y
-I                             Z    I    I                ;                       I                                                      !n1 19               5a*'S
.22                                                                                                                                 -     . - - *    !.. 1!  .iI
......................................................  .
xi              . 9                           -
.9                    n
XI                                                                 3                                                    



- 75 -
CHAD                           ANNEX %
Page 1 of 2
EMERGENCY COTTON PROGRAM
PROGRAM COMPONENTS AND COSTS
-CAF billion-----    ------------US$  illion------------
% of
Local   Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign    Total BUas Cost
1. Input Program
1.1 Agricultural inputs                        0.59      5.31     5.90     1.64    14.75    16.39    38.0
1.2  Spare parts                               0.03      0.47     0.50     0.08     1.30     1.39     3.2
1.3 Petroleum                                  0.24     2.16      2.40     0.66     6.00     6.67    15.5
1.4  Equipment                               ' 0.26      1.04     1.30     0.72     2.89     3.61     8.4
1.5 Polypropylene Packing                      0.06     0.49      0.55     0.17     1.36     1.53     3.5
1.6  Contingencies                             0.12     0.94      1.06     0.33     2.61     2.94     6.8
1.7      Total                                 1.30    10.41    11.71      3.60    28.91    32.52    75.4
2.  Audit, Studies and Technical Assistance
2.1 Audit                                      0.01     0.08      0.09     0.03     0.22     0.25     0.6
2.2 Studies                                    0.02     0.16      0.18     0.06     0.44     0.50     1.2
2.3 Technical Assistance
Project coordinator                     0.01     0.08     0.09      0.03     0.22     0.25     0.6
Financial director                      -        -         -        -        -        -        -
Chief accountant                        -        -         -        -        -        -
2.4  Contingencies                             0.01     0.03     0.04      0.03     0.08     0.11     0.3
Total                                 0.05     0.35     0.40      0.14     0.97     1.11     2.6
3. Operating Costs
3.1 Transportation                             0.24     2.16     2.40    0.67       6.00     6.67    15.5
3.2 Management Support
Training                                0.21     0.49     0.70      0.58     1.36     1.94     4.5
3.3  Contingencies                             0.04     0.27     0.31      0.11     0.75     0.86     2.0
Total                                 0.49     2.92      3.41    1.36      8.11     9.47    22.0
4.  Support to ONDR IRCT
4.1  ONDR                                      0.77     0.33      1.10     2.14     0.92     3.06     7.1
4.2  IRCT                                      0.15     0.15      0.30     0.42     0.42     0.84     1.9
4.3  Contingencies                             0.09     0.05      0.14     0.25     0.14     0.39     0.9
Total                                 1.01     0.53      1.54     2.81     1.48     4.29     9.9
5.  Total Ease Cost                            2.59    12.92    15.51      7.19    35.89    43.08   100.0
6.  Total Contingencies                        0.26     1.29      1.55     0.72     3.58     4.30    10.0
7.   TOTAL PROJECT COST                        2.85    14.21    17.06      7.91    39.47    47.38   110.0



- 76 -
ANNEX X
Page 2 of 2
PROGRAM COST AND PINANCINC
CFAF billion       US$ million           Financing
Input program
Agricultural Inputs                      0.86               2.3               Netherlands
Agricultural Inputs                      1.80               5.0               IDA
Agricultural Inputs                      3.95              11.1               EDF
Spare parts                              0.55               1.5               IDA
Petroleum                                2.65               7.3               IDA
Equipment                                1.31               3.6               CCCE
Polypropylene Packing                    0.60               1.6               EDF
Audit, Studies and Technical
Assistance
Audit                                    0.10               0.3               IDA
Stjdies                                  0.20               0.6               IDA
Technical assistance
Project coordination                     0.10               0.3               IDA
Financial director                       -                                    Cotontchad
Cheif accountant                         -                                    Cotontchad
Operating costs
Transportation                           2.70               7.5               CCCE
Management support                       0.70               2.0               CCCE
and training
Support to ONDR and IRCT
ONDR                                     0.35               1.0               EDF
ONDR                                     0.90               2.5               CCCe
IRCT                                     0.30               0.8               FAC
Total project                           17.06              47.4



CHAD
EMERGENCY COTTON PROGRAM
Procurement Table for IDA Credit
Procurement Method
Program Component                    ICB        LCB      Other                  Total
US$ Mill4on -----------------
1.    Farm input program (fertilizers,                  5.0                                          5.0
pesticides, small equipment)
2.    Spare parts for machinery and vehicles                       1.5                               1.5
3.    Petroleum products                                           7.3                               7,3
4.    Technical assistance, audits, studies,                                   1.2                   1.2
and training
Total                                                                               15.0
l



BARD 1ii
NIGE   ,                                       CHAD TOHAD                    IICHAD
COTTON GINNERIES RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM   I RUCTURING PROGRAMN
PROGRAMME DE RESrRUCTURATION DES USINEES D EGRENAGE ION DEs us811Es D'EGRENAGE    a  I L                            elI    t    AII-Weae oe
Atoer me Piogrem  I   err         I                                       -   pA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMe,Ry
Vt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 d.d                                                                                                  (pi.
K                                                                                     N  A..H '4d:
4/  I           BATH   A                    ~~~~~B A  TH  A
~~       ~                               ,O..o.e,AT. j   I U A%, D       A  I        *PMAOAS
Ar  '                                                      ''-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....  <--   /  SUDAN 
--                                                                   >4oo    "          /~-------
B A  I~~~~~~~~~~~~ )mC
H A R I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r~rsAAjgOrtO
NIGERIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIA
I        "1   1                  3            \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RP  \.A
CAME~ ~ ~              AA~    IR            o4N 



