OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1716 CD
*              Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Cotton Program)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                          , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1716 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1986, between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borr      r)      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter of sector
policies dated May 21, 1986 from the Borrower describing a
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve
an Emergency Rehabilitation Program of the Borrower's cotton
sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and to the fea-
sibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (hereinafter called the Project), and requesting
assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently
needed goods and services required during such execution;
(B) the Project will be carried out by COTONTCHAD with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available,to COTONTCHAD the pzoceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) two loans (the CCCE Loans) in an
aggregate amount of FF 112,000,000 to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and CCCE;
(D) the    Borrower  intends   to  contract   from  European
Development Fund (EDF) a grant in an amount of ECU 5,000,000
under EDF V, and a grant in an amount of about ECU 18,000,000
under STABEX 1986 and 1987 (the EDF Grants) to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in the financing conventions to be entered into between the
Borro,4 - and EDF;
(E) the Borrower intends to .contract from Fonds d'Aide et
de Coopfration (FAC) a grant (the FAC Grant) in an amount of
about FF 4,640,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in a convention to be entered
into between the Borrower and FAC;
(F) the Borrower intends to contract from The Netherlands
(Netherlands) a grant (the Netherlands Grant) in an amount of
Dutch Guilders 6,000,000 to assist in financing part of the


﻿if-2-
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the Netherlands Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and Netherlands; and
(G) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided in support of the Project to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and COTONTCHAD;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitiois
Section 1.01. The "General Conitions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Secition 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and COTONTCHAD of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplen.....tal to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) "BTCD" means the Banque Tchadienne de Credit et de
Depot;
(d) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(e)  "COTONTCHAD" means    Societe  Cotonniere  du  Tchad, a
company established and operating under the laws of the Borrower
and registered in the Registre du Commerce of the Borrower with
number 12/B/72 on November 1, 1971;


﻿-3-
(f)  "Fiscal Year"' means COTONTCHAD's fiscal year starting
November 1 and ending October 31;
\(g) "IRCT" means Institut de Recherche sur le Coton et les
Texttles exotiques; and
)  "ONDR" means Office National de Developpement Rural.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referced to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to twelve million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 12,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this -Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in BTCD on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The, Closing Date shall be April 30, 1989
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.


﻿-4-
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1996, and ending May 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 2006, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 2.09. (a) COTONTCHAD is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts COTONTCHAD with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be
furnished to the Association in support of such applications;
such withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts
of not less than $500,000 equivalent.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause COTONTCHAD to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
of COTONTCHAD therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
COTONTCHAD to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Credit available to COTONTCHAD on a grant basis.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Sched-
ule to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
shall be carried out by COTONTCHAD pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Project Agreement.
Section  3.04.   (a)  The   Borrower,, COTONTCHAD  and   the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program and the Project and the actions specified in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower and
COTONTCHAD shall furnish to the Association for its review and
comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program and the Project, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿-6-
Section  3.05.   The  Borrower   shall  recruit   a  Project
Coordinator in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association, including international advertising, to exercise
overall coordination in the carrying out of the Program and the
Project and to report directly to COTONTCHAD's Director General,
with responsibilities and powers satisFactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) COTONTCHAD shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
COTONTCHAD will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(c) Decree No. 631/PR/MEC/85 of -September 12, 1985 of the
Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
COTONTCHAD to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of COTONTCHAD or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) An event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or any significant part thereof, will be
carried out.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and


﻿-7-
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Project Coordinator referred to under Section 3.05
of this Agreement has been selected, with qualification and
experience satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) COTONTCHAD's Financial Director and Chief Accountant
have been selected, with qualifications and experiences satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by COTONTCHAD, and is legally binding
upon COTONTCHAD in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date sixty (60) days, after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6,01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower in charge of planning is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
N'Dj amena
Republic of Chad


﻿-8-
Cable address:                            Telex:
MINPLAN                                5201 KD
N'Djamena                              5307 KD
For the Association:
International De\velopment Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                            Telex:
INDEVAS                                440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By        /S          A         A,&       4ctt
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ByjAJ/>(P.7                                  O&J
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amovints of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in ea>h Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Spare parts              1r190,000          70%
(2) Agricultural             3,790,000          100%
Inputs
(3) Products petroleum       5,920,000          85%
(4) Consultants'               710,000          100%
services and
technical
assistance
(5) Unallocated              1,190,000
TOTAL               12,800,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments
made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 500,000, may be made on account of payments
made for expenditures under Category (4) before that date but
after June 1, 1986; and
(b) no withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower, COTONTCHAD or others
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿- 10 -
the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the CredAt Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have ;eached the equivalent of SDR 8,510,000,
unless the Association 3hall be satisfied, after an exchange of
views as described in Section 3.04 of this Agreement: (a) with
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program; and (b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken, and are satisfactory to it.


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
implementing its Emergency Rehabilitation Program for the cotton
sector, as described in the letter of sector policies, through
the improvement of COTONTCHAD's administrative, financial and
accounting management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   COTONTCHAD's Input Program
Acquisition of spare parts, agricultural inputs and petro-
leum products.
Part B:   Strengthening of COTONTCHAD's Management
Upgrading COTONTCHAD's management and financial control
through the preparation of detailed external audits, the employ-
ment of a Project Coordinator, the training of management and
financial staff, and studies to design a medium-term and long-
term restructuring and development program.
Part C:   Support of the Cotton Sector
Institutional strengthening for extension services (ONDR)
and research activities (IRCT).
The Project is expected to be completed by October 30, 1988.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 2 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
I.     Completion of an audit of COTONTCHAD's accounts for
Fiscal Year 1985-86.
II.     The Borrower has abolished subsidies on farm inputs for
cotton production.
III.     Completion of the reorganization of COTONTCHAD's finan-
cial and accounting operations and staffing, satisfac-
tory to the Association.
IV.     All necessary measures have been taken by the Borrower
to rationalize the number of cotton ginneries.
V.     The Borrower and COTONTCHAD have presented an amortiza-
tion schedule for all outstanding payments of interest
and principle on loans, satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to CFAF 720,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 14 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrover shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 15 -
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


