OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1716 CD
Project Agreement
(Er igency Cotton Program)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE COTONNIERE DU TCHAD
Dated                             , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1716 CD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  (          , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT    OCIA (lON  (the  Association)  and
SOCIETE COTONNIERE DU TCHAD (COTONTCHAD).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Republic of Chad (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twelve million eigh, hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 12,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
COTONTCHAD agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS COTONTCHAD, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. COTONTCHAD declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. COTONTCHAD shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) COTONTCHAD shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performanace of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) COTONTCHAD shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by COTONTCKAD of its obligations
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of COTONTCHAD
Section 3.01. COTONTCHAD shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and agricultural practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. COTONTCHAD shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.
Section 3.03. COTONTCHAD shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-3-
AlTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) COTONTCHAD shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) COTONTCHAD shall:
(i)  have   its  accounts   and   financial  statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association ihall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, COTONTCHAD shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the Fiscal
Year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,


﻿-4-
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date,; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreemett shall come into force and
effect ot the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of COTONTCHAD thereunder shall terminate on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms, and the Association shall promptly
notify COTONTCHAD of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICL VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter


﻿-5-
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For COTONTCHAD:
Societe Cotonniere du Tchad
B.P. 1116
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:                    Telex:
COTCHAD                           5229 KD
N'Djamena
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of COTONTCHAD, or by COTONTCHAD on behalf of
the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken
or executed by the Directeur G&neral or such other person or
persons as the Directeur G6n6ral shall designate in writing, and
COTONTCHAD shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/4V}I~ d               7).7L
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE COTONNIERE DU TCHAD
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more
each.
Part.B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in the
Republic of Chad may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the purchase of petroleum products and
contracts estimated to cost less thatt $250,000 equivalent may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding,  advertised   locally, 'in  accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders e-' provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿-8-
(a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnishci pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a)
and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall
be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist COTONTCHAD in carrying out the Project,
COTONTCHAD shall employ consultants whose qualifications, ex-
perience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿14
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


