                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                  Report No: 41596-MX




                                   PROJECT PAPER




                  PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$21.0 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                             UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                          FOR A

               SAVINGS & RURAL FINANCE SAGARPA PROJECT
                              ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                   December 12,2007




Latin America and Caribbean Region
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective: November 29,2007)


                       Currency Unit    =  Peso
                               Peso 1 = US$0.091
                               US$ 1 = Pesos 11.00

                                FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1     - December31




                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF       Additional Financing

BANSEFI  Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros, Instituci6n de Banca de
         Desarrollo, S.N.C. (National Bank for Savings and Financial Services)

CNBV     Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria y de Valores (National Banking and Securities
         Commission)

CONAPO   Consejo Nacional de Poblacion

FM       Financial Management

IPDP     Indigenous Peoples Development Plan

SAGARPA  Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia, Desarrollo Rural, Pesca y Alimentacion

SCI      Savings and Credit Institutions

TA       Technical Assistance




                       Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                    Country Director:      Axe1van Trotsenburg
                      Sector Director:     Laura Tuck
                  Task Team Leader:        Harideep Singh

                                                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                 MEXICO

                         SAVINGS AND RURAL FINANCE SAGARPA PROJECT
                                       ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                             PROJECT PAPER

                                   LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                                  LCSSD

        Date: December 12,2007                             Team Leader: Harideep Singh
         Count Director: Axe1van Trotsenburg
               Eanager/Director:                           Sectors: General agriculture, fishing and
         Sector                     Ethel Sennhauser       forestry sector (50%); Banking (50%)
                                                           Themes: Small and medium enterprise support
                                                           (P); Rural markets (P); Regulation and
                                                           competition olicy (P); Rural non-farm income
                                                           generation ( ); Indigenous peoples (S)
                                                                       H
         Project ID: P106682                               Environmental screening category: Not
                                                           Required
         Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan




         For Loans/Credits/Others:
         Total Bank financing (US$m.): 21.00




                                            Linked to Disbursement




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

FY                                            2008           2009           2010          2011
Annual                                        2.00           6.00           8.00           5.00
Cumulative                                    2.00            8.00          16.00         21.00

Does the prqject depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects?      [ ]Yes [X1No

Does the project require an exce tions from Bank policies?
Have these been approved y Bg    Smanagement?
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                         [ ]Yes [X]No

Does the pro-jectinclude any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?          [ ]Yes [X] No

                                                                                    [XIYes [ ]No
Does the pro-jectmeet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?

Project development objective:

The PDO of the Savings and Credit Sector Strengthening & Rural Microfinance Capacity
Building Project (parent roject -ID P070108), as indicated in the Loan Agreement, is: 'to
improve the financial sta gilityand outreach capacity of Savings and Credit Institutions
throughout Mexico, with emphasis on those servin rural areas of the country, to thus contribute
to the integration of low-income populations into t fe  Mexican economy by increasing such
populations' access to financial services and consequently aid in the realization of such
populations' income-generating potential".

The parent pro'ect has four components to achieve the PDO, namely: (a) Consolidatin sector
institutions; (bj Expanding financial services in rural marginal areas; (c) Sector-relate
                                                                                        dstudies;
and (d) Project Management and M&E.

This is an Additional Financing Project which focuses on scaling up Component (b). There is no
change in the parent roject develo ment objective. The scale and sco e of the component
                      P                                                 P
"Ex anding Financia Services in I!ural Marginal Areas" is increased rom 21 to 80 savings and
cre it institutions, and expanded beyond the seven geographical areas under Phase I to cover the
   B
entire country. The focus of technical assistance, however, will predominantly be on deepening
penetration and outreach and not on certification, since only those entities which are financially
and managerially sound would participate in the project. Sector-related M&E studies and project
management arrangements would also be supported by the project.

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component]

The AF project activities are grouped into the followin two broad components:
(a) Technical assistance to institutions in rural margina areas to deepen penetration and
                                                        Y
outreach; and
(b) Prqject management and M&E study.

Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, if any?

The AF project is categorized "C" from the environmental viewpoint, requiring no assessment of
environmentalimpacts or preparation of an environmental management plan.

               a
The only safe uard olicy that was tri gered by the parent o eration, and continues to remain
applicableto t e A   $pro.jectrelates to ndigenous Peoples ( Ph3P4.10).
                                        f                     8
Significant,non-standard conditions, if any, for:
(a) Board presentation: None.
(b) Loadcredit effectiveness: None.
Covenantsapplicable to project implementation:None.

                                      MEXICO

              Savings & Rural Finance SAGARPA Project
                            Additional Financing

                         TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                                                                                                Page

Introductory Statement ..........................................................................................   1
Background and Rationale for Additional Financing..........................................                         1
Proposed Changes.................................................................................................   5
Consistency with CAS...................................     ..........................................................
                                                                                                                    7
Appraisal of Scaled-up Activities......................              ................................................8
Expected Outcomes ........................................................................................... 1 2
Additional Benefits and Risks ........................ ..           ...............................................12
Financial Terms and Conditions for the Additional Loan..................................                           13


I.       Introductory Statement

1.       This project paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an
additional loan in an amount of US$21.0 million to United Mexican States, Savings and
Credit Sector Strengthening and Rural Microfinance Capacity Buildin Project (Project ID:
P070108;Loan 7132-ME). The proposed additional loan would help inance scaling-up of
                                                                        P
project activities relating to the following component: Expanding Financial Services in Rural
Marginal Areas.

2.       Partnership Arrangements: None.

11.      Background and Rationale for Additional Financing in the amount of USS21.0
million

3.       Overview of Access to Financial Services. Access to financial services in Mexico is
limited and costly. Penetration rate is low, with 74% of its municipalities, supporting 22% of its
population, having no bank branch. Regional variations are intense with southlsouth-east and
central regions having 87% and 77% of their municipalities without any bank branch. About
75% of Mexico is urban; et 85% of the adult population in the urban areas (metro-cities) has
had no dealings with the ormal financial sector institutions. Participation rates in formal
                           P
financial markets are below those in other Latin American countries of lower per capita income
(e.g., Colombia, Peru). These are particularly low for both rural agriculture and non-agriculture
enterprises, and very low for individual entrepreneurs and farmers, with household participation
rates in the single digits for both savings and credit services.

4.       The low level of formal financial services entails high transaction costs for the
unbanked, particularly in areas relating to payments for utility services, remittances from
abroad, cashing of checks by non-bank accounts holders (including transfer payments under
government social pro ams, such as Procampo and Oportunidades), high interest rates on
alternative credit, and  fow earnings on savings.

5.       Almost 75% of Mexico City homeowners have borrowed funds for housing investment.
Also, savings are maintained in informal avenues by a large proportion of both banked and
unbanked segments. There is a demand for financial services with client-oriented features.
Offer of such financial services from alternative sources such as Banco Azteca, providing
unsecured loans at relatively high rates, and savings options with small deposit amounts at
relatively low interest rates have been very successful.

6.       Clearly, there is an underserved but bankable population, and poverty is not the only
factor resulting in low levels of access to financial services. Supply side factors such as
inadequate points-of-service network, inappropriate financial products, cumbersome procedural
issues relating to opening of accounts, minimum balance required in the accounts, among
others, are equally important constraints.

7.       Rural Financial Sector Structure. The supply side of the sector is composed of three
main distinct segments: commercial banks, development banks, and savings and credit
institutions. The commercial banks offer banking products mostly for high-income clients, and
savings products offered by almost all banks would result in loss in value to a middlellow-
income client. The bank branch location has clustered around business and high-income
residential areas. Deposit and lending activity have not been commensurate with the increase in
assets. The reasons for such a scenario are understandable: target rural clientele is perceived to
present special risks and challenges   - informality,low capacity to generate bankable projects,
lack of collateral, volatile income, low savings, high transaction costs - and servicing such
clientele is perceived as risky and costly. Expansion and extension of financial services by this
segment to the underserved urban and rural population is virtually non-existent.

8.       A number of legal and regulatory reforms were initiated to improve the efficiency and
transparency of development banks' operations, notably, to orient them toward developing rural



                                                 1

financial markets, limiting their capacity to provide subsidies, taking them out of deposit taking,
and moving them toward a second-tier lending role. BANRURAL, the main rural and
agriculture bank with first-tier lending is now liquidated, and FIRA, the second major player in
rural and agriculture sector lending, is mainly a second-tier lender operating through
commercial banks and SCI segment. Clear1 ,in terms of outreach and access to financial
services, the impact of the development ban   ging segment is limited, since it operates mainly
through commercial banks' and the savings and credit institutions' branch network.

9.      The savinns and credit institutions (SCI) segment, mostly o erating in the rural areas,
has a com arativeadvantage in expanding outreach since it is wide     fy dispersed: only a small
number o entities have a national presence; the great majority of institutions have a local
          P
presence. The segment, however, consists of about 600 institutions: not all are authorized to
mobilize savings; not all are regulated and supervised; and they have various legal forms
(cooperatives and associations, credit unions, among others). The segment is also
characterized by deficiencies in accounting, governance and self-regulation aspects.

10.     Government Stratea~to deepen access to financial services. The government
launched a com rehensive strategy in 2001 that combined legal and regulatory reforms with
a substantial puElic investment in creating and strengthening capacity of the SCI institutions
and the regulatory agencies for supervision. The total one-time sector upgrade investment
was expected at about US$175 million.

11.     Two key reforms were initiated: (a) Popular Savings and Credit Law in April 2001
(which became effective on June 4,2001); and (b) the creation in the same year of the Banco
del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros (BANSEFI), as legal successor of the Patronato
del Ahorro Nacional, and with an enhanced development role vis A vis the SCI sector, acting as
the nodal bank to channel and coordinate government assistance for sector strengthening. The
Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria y de Valores (CNBV), already the regulator for banks and capital
markets, became the sole regulatory and supervisory authority for the SCI entities, having the
responsibility for issuing all regulations associated with the new law.

12.     Initially, the new law required that after a eriod of two years from the date of its
effectiveness, only those institutions which are ab to demonstrate their financial viability,
                                                     fe
which subject themselves to regulation and supervision and which purchase private deposit
insurance will be authorized to remain in o eration. This deadline was revised thrice, and
now allows the institutions to get certified gy December 31,2008, and incorporates a scheme
of progressive disincentives for institutions getting certified from January 1,2009 onwards.
Financially viable entities below the certification threshold can continue to operate legally,
but in a highly restricted manner.

13.     Left to themselves, under the new Law, a very large number of SCIs would probably not
have met the requirements for certification, and would have had to be liquidated or continue to
operate in a highly restricted manner. To maintain a reasonably robust sector size, which is
crucial to achieve the objective of deeper penetration and a wider access to financial services,
offering technical assistance to the sector entities to prepare them for certification was critical. It
was also believed that a technology platform could support the institutions to reduce transaction
costs, offer new financial roducts, adapt to management, accounting, and regulatory reporting
requirements easily, and  d'evelop a strong networked of rural financial sebtor.

14.     The Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Develo ment, Fishing and Food
(SAGARPA), dealing with increasing the presence of reliable       financialintermediaries in
rural areas as an essential base for a healthy development of savings and other microfinance
activities, wanted to complement the new law by assisting sustainable SCIs to deepen their
penetration and outreach in the rural financial markets.

15.     Bank Assistance to strengthen the SCI Sector. Assistance to the savings and credit
sector through BANSEFI in Mexico commenced in 2002, and consists of three Bank-
financed projects introduced sequentially, and which are now being implemented in parallel.

These three loans, representing government investment to strengthen the sector, are focused
on technical assistance for certification, developing a technology platform, and technical
assistance to deepen penetration and outreach. These projects are being administered and
managed by BANSEFI.

    (a) Savings and Credit Sector Strenathenina & Rural Microfinance Capacitv Building
        Proiect - Loan 7132 (uroiect cost: US$85.4million; Bank-financina: US$64.6
        million)-Phase I: This first project was in line with the proposed government
        strategy to reform the rural financial sector through a new Law introduced in June
        2002, and consists of technical assistance to facilitate the achievement of the main
        objectives of the new Law focused on consolidating the sector, building regulatory
        capacity, and developing a pilot technology platform, all through BANSEFI.
        Another technical assistance component, managed by SAGARPA, aims to strengthen
        rural financial institutions in selected rural mar inal areas to deepen outreach and
        penetration. The current closing date is Decem    %er  31,2008.

    (b) Savinas and Rural Finance (BANSEFI)Phase 11Proiect -Loan 7240 (uroiect cost:
        US$159.7million;Bank financing: US$75.1million)-Phase I . This project was
        conceived based on the followingtwin objectives: (a) "refining and scaling-up" the pilot
        technology platform tested under the first project; and (b) addressing the challenges that
        the sector encountered during the im lementation of both the new Law governing the
        sector and the prudential regulation t at CNBV (regulatory agency) issued for thls Law,
                                               R
        as well as the Phase I project. This project became effective on December 9,2004, and
        closes on July 31,2009. At this stage, US$72.0 million has been disbursed, and only
        US$3.1 million remains in the loan account.

    (c) Savings and Rural Finance (BANSEFI)Phase 11Additional Financing Proiect -Loan
        7438 (uroiect cost: US$34.8million; Bank financina: US$29.Omillid: The Phase I1
          k                                                                  r
        pro eci experienced a cost overrun, predominantly in the technolog platform refining
        an scaling-up component which is Mexico's own home-grown so ution to the
                               a
        information technolo y needs of the rural financial sector, and therefore had many
        undefined "firsts." T is Additional Financing loan finances the US$34.8 million cost
        escalation. The project became effective on March 27,2007, and runs concurrently with
        the Phase I1project, closing on July 31,2009. No disbursement has yet been made from
        this additional loan.

16.     The Phase I pro'ect components (BANSEFI and SAGARPA activities) were
proposed for additiona   r'financing  by the respective implementing agencies. However,
since the assistance was required at two different points In time, the Ministry of Finance
decided to adopt a "two-stage" approach for Bank support: (a) a "first" additional financin
loan of US$21.0 million to support the scaling-up of the SAGARPA (Expanding Financia         B
Services in Rural Areas) component starting December 1,2007;and (b) a "second"
additional financing loan of about US$23.8 million next year, to support BANSEFI activities
(the Consolidating Sector Institutions component) starting January 1,2009.

17.     This Project Paper relates to the first stage additional financing project. The project
development objective and design of the SAGARPA com onent continue to be relevant, and
remain fundamentally unaltered for the purposes of the a    c ditional
                                                              f       financing loan. The scale
and geographic scope of the SAGARPAcomponent, however, are expanded for the
additional financing loan.

18.     Rationale for Additional Financing. The SAGARPA component of the Phase I
project aims at promoting secure and sustainable financial services in rural marginal areas,
through specialized technical assistance and training. There are four main reasons for scaling
up this component: (a) uniqueness of the component and the approach to its implementation;
(b) highly successful implementation performance and satisfactory development outcome; (c)
need to expand the limited initial geographical coverage; and (d) strong government
commitment to the scale-up of this component.

19.      Uniuueness of the Component andNovel Implementation Aporoach. Several features
make this project component unique in Mexico, and arguably one of the most unique
microfinance interventions in the world. First, it is a results-oriented program, as opposed to
an inputs-based program. Second, by allowing for diverse approaches and methodologies
across technical service providers, it represents a bottom-up approach to finding the best
adapted means of serving the target population in a sustainable manner. Third, the program
is based on mobilizing local savings, rather than using external lines of credit or recurrent
donations; hence, it is not subject to, or reliant on, the whims of donor funding. Fourth, the
program, with the participating institutions, offers multiple financial services - savings,
credit, remittances, insurance, payments and government transfer services -while seeking to
attain financial viability to show that serving the rural poor can indeed be profitable.

20.      The project finances specialized technical assistance and training to strengthen and
expand operations of the selected rural financial institutions. The institutions were selected
on the basis of their track record in terms of outreach and sustainability, and their rojected
expansion plans. In some regions where no intermediary existed, new savings ancfcredit
institutions were to be established. The participating institutions entered into agreements with
the technical assistance providers committing them to performance targets which were
closely monitored. The program does not include a line of credit, and most of the lending by
these participating institutions was from members' savings.

21.      Successful Im~lementationPerformance and Development Outcome. The two key
areas of assistance by the technical service providers are: (a) deepening penetration and
outreach; and (b) strengthening institutions. The strong implementation performance has
resulted in successfully achieving the development outcomes.

22.      Deepeningpenetration and outreach. The project follows three methods to expand
outreach and services in rural areas: (a) strengthening and consolidating existing institutions
already in the area; (b) helping existing institutions expand into marginal areas; and (c)
creation of new intermediaries (green-field approach). The approaches are used in isolation
or combined as a function of the existing conditions in the areas assigned to the consultant.

23.      Working with existing and newly established institutions, 158 new points of service
have been established in marginal areas, while 36 existing branches have been improved and
modernized, for a total of 194points of service. The effects of the strengthening and
expansion of the points of servlce in terms of client outreach are remarkable. As of June
2007, the project had incorporated about 172,500 new members into the formal rural
financial system. Fifty-seven percent of these new members are women, and 28 percent are
indigenous people (IP). If existing members in participating institutions are counted, the total
additional outreach attributable to the project is 250,500 clients in approximately three and a
half years (on average) of implementation, an outstanding result by international standards.

24.      The project has clearly attained the key objective of deepening the outreach of
participating financial institutions to oor and marginalized eople in their areas of operation.
This has been confirmed by the pane    Psurvey   of 2004 recent y released, which show that the
                                                               P
client population served by this com onent stands well below the general clientele of the
"popular banking sector" in terms ofincome, expenditures, and educational level.

25.      Strengthening institutions. The SAGARPA technical service providers have been
working in close collaboration with the assisted entities on certification. As of September
2007, seven of the 33 partici ating entities under this component had been authorized by
CNBV and sixteen more ha applications under review. Of the entities not yet authorized,
                              f
fourteen were categorized as B+, i.e.,judged ready to meet authorization requirements, and
twelve were categorized as B, mostly in need of governance strengthening but with already

solid financial performance. No entity remains in category C.' This is an indication of the
progress towards financial and managerial sustainability achieved by the project.

26.      Need to Exuand the Limited Initial Geowauhical Coverane. The Phase I project
covered only seven marginal areas (as defined by CONAPO) in 10 states, as follows: (a)
Chiapas (and adjacent marginal areas in the State of Tabasco); (b) Huasteca (marginal areas
in the States of Hidalgo, San Luis Potosi and Veracruz); (c) Oaxaca; (d) Veracruz, excluding
the Huasteca; (e) Guerrero; (f) Michoacan; and (g) Puebla (and adjacent mar inal areas in the
State of Tlaxcala). This was essentially a risk-mmimization measure, while               Focusing   on the
most deserving marginal areas in Mexico. Given the success of the component, and the
existence of other mar inal areas, it would be worthwhile to replicate the project initiatives in
other marginal areas o    fMexico     to deepen the success of the SCI strengthening program.

27.      Government Commitment to the Scale-up Operation. The successful implementation
of this innovative component has demonstrated clearly that serving the rural poor can be a
profitable venture for SCIs. The Finance Secretariat (SHCP), Government of Mexico, has
requested an Additional Financing (AF) loan in their letter dated September 14, 2007 to
scale-up the approach tested and validated through this component under the Phase I project
to cover marginal areas in the rest of the country. SAGARPA, on its part, has demonstrated
its commitment to the component by providing two-thirds of the incremental project cost as
counterpart funding, and has sought Bank assistance mainly its value-addition in terms of
sector technical knowledge, best practice examples, and international experience.

I11      Proposed Changes

28.      Proiect DO, Design andlor Scope. The PDO of the Phase I project, as indicated in the
Loan Agreement, is: "to improve the financial stability and outreach capacity of SCIs
throughout Mexico, with emphasis on those serving rural areas of the country, to thus
contribute to the inte ation of low-income populations into the Mexican economy by
increasing such popu    Fations'   access to financial services and consequently aid in the
realization of such populations' income-generating potential." The Phase I project has four
components to ach~evethe PDO, namely: (a) Consolidating sector institutions; (b) Expanding
financial services in selected rural marginal areas; (c) Sector-related studies; and (d) Project
Management and M&E.

29.      There is no change in the above project development ob'ective. Only the scale and
scope of the component "Expanding Financial Services in RuraI'Areas" is increased from
assisting 21 savings and credit institutions to about 80, and expanded beyond the seven
geographical areas under Phase I to cover the entire country. The focus of technical
assistance, however, will predominantly be on deepenin penetration and outreach, and not
on certification since only those entities which are alrea y financially and managerially
                                                                 %
sound would participate m the project.

30.      Additional Financing Proiect Components. These AF project activities, expected to
cost an additional US$60.15-million (with Bank share of US$21.OO million), are grouped into
three broad components: (a) Technical Assistance to institutions in rural marginal areas to
deepen penetration and outreach; (b) M&E Studies; and (c) Project Management.

31.      TechnicalAssistance to institutionsin rural marainal areas to deepenpenetration
and outreach. The AF project will finance technical assistance to about 80 entities in a
demand-driven setting all over Mexico generally following the approach tested under the
Phase I project, but focusing on the deepening outreach using the "expansion" method which
was deemed the most cost-effective to increase outreach. The objective would be to
mainstream an additional 380,000 new members into the formal rural financial sector. This
is to be achieved by supporting 350 points of access to services (either existing points of

'  In sum, 64 percent of the entities were B+ or better (including those filly authorized), an improvement
over the proportion reported at the MTR in August 2006.

access strengthened or newly created through agency arrangements and other branchless
banking arrangements) in these 80 institutions, while maintaining the existing classification
for certification of the assisted entities.

32.     There is no change in project design. "Rural" areas now include communities with
population count of less than 15,000 to align the project with currently accepted national
census categories, but otherwise the same three levels of marginality constitute the target
population (very high, high, and moderate marginality in the CONAPO classification).

33.     Only entities categorized as B (already financially and managerially sound) or higher
would participate in partnerships with the TA providers, under performance-contingent
contracts; exceptionally, some entities categorized "C" may be included at the TA provider's
risk. The TA ortion of the consultancies would be financed by the Bank; other costs
associated wit the expansion to serve (more of) the target clientele would be partially and
               g
tem orarily financed by counterpart and entity contribution, which is interlinked with the
per ormance of, and inco orated into, the TA contracts. An operational improvement is
   P
being introduced by estab ishing an "Average Unit Price per (new) Client" which will
                           'P
determine the value of contracts with, and will guide the payments to, TA providers based on
the verified number of new users incorporated into the formal rural financial system.

34.     M&E Studies. The M&E study, consisting of a household survey, for the Phase I
seven regions for 2008 is already planned under the parallel BANSEFI Phase I1project. This
project will finance a first round of household survey in the newly added regions in 2008 (to
obtain a baseline for the new regions), and a consolidated survey in late 2010 to cover the
entire project area (Phase I and the new AF regions) to obtain an assessment of the aggregate
project outcomes for this component. Other thematic or SCI-focused evaluation studies will
also be financed by the project.

35.     Proiect Mananement. Continued project oversight would be provided by
SAGARPA's Technical Team, and individual consultancies related to the Technical Team
will be financed by the project.

36.     Project duration. execution and oversight. The Additional Loan activities are
expected to be completed within three years of the closing date of the Phase I project at the
time of the AF project approval, which is December 3l, 2008. The Closing Date of the
project with the AF loan is February 28,2011. BANSEFI will continue to be the executing
agency for the project, and the SAGARPA will provide component oversight through the
Technical Team, already operational under the ongoing Phase I project.

37.     Pro-iect Costs and Financing Plan. The cost of scaling-up is expected to be US$60.15
million, and would be financed as follows: Bank -US$21.OO million (including a front-end
fee of US$0.052 million); and Borrower through counterpart funding -US$39.15 million.
The revised roject costs are provided below to indicate the Phase I project costs and those
proposed to  ge financed through the Additional Loan.

 Project Components                      Phase I Project   Proposed Additional         Total Revised
                                           (US$M)        Financing Loan (US$M)        Project (US$M)
 Consolidating the Savings and               48.01                  0.00                   48.01
 Credit Institutions Sector
 Expanding Financial Services in             26.18                 58.60                    84.78
 Rural Areas
 SCI Sector Studies, Information               5.69                 0.60                     6.29
 Dissemination, and M&E
 Project Management                            4.88                 0.90                     5.78
 Total for Prqject Components                84.76                 60.10                   144.86
 Front-end Fee                                 0.64                 0.05                     0.69
 TOTAL PROJECT                               85.40                 60.15                   145.55
38.     The revised financing plan will be as follows:

Source                                   Phase I Project      Proposed Additional        Total Revised
                                             (US$M)          Financing Loan (US$M)     Pro-ject (US$M)
Borrower (United Mexican States)               12.70                  39.15                   51.85
IBRD                                           64.60                  21-00                   85.60
Inter-American Development Bank                 3.50                   0.00                    3.50
Local Sources in-country                        4.60                   0.00                    4.60
TOTAL PROJECT                                  85.40                  60.15                  145.55

39.      account in^ and Financial Management Arrangements. The AF project will continue
to use the accounting and financial management arrangements applicable to Phase I project,
which have been revised and updated from time to time based on Bank review findings, and
lessons learnt during the implementation of the Phase I project. The Bank supervision work
for the Phase I project involved ensuring that the arrangements allow for an appropriate level
of transparency that facilitates oversight and control while also supporting smooth
implementation. No major FM-related issues were identified. Overall, the existing Phase I
project FM arrangements are satisfactory and adequate for AF project activities.

40.      Flow of funds and disbursement. The project will continue to use the on- oing
Phase I project's arrangements for the flow of funds and disbursement already in e fect under
                                                                                    F
the project currently under implementation. SAGARPA receives bud et funds from the
national treasury (TESOFE) to process payments to suppliers of goocfS or services. Payments
for lump-sum contracts, as well as disbursements will be based on the Average Unit Price per
new Client banked in each contract. Thus, the Statements of Expenditure (SOE) will present
eligible expenditures incurred with consultants and other contractors/suppliers based on
negotiated contracts with a results/performance element. Information in the format of SOE in
Mexican esos (MXP) will be submitted to the Bank throu h BANSEFI, followin which the
          P
Bank wil reimburse in the currency of the expenditure, an finally, BANSEFI wil reimburse
                                                             ti                     P
TESOFE.

41.      Retroactive Financing. Disbursement from the Additional Loan will commence
immediately after loan agreement signing, given that there is no disbursement condition. An
amount of US$2.8 million will be available from the Additional Loan to disburse against
payments made prior to this loan signing date, but after December 1,2007 (but in no case
earlier than twelve months immediately before signing of the loan agreement).

42.      Procurement Arrangements. The existing Phase I project procurement arrangements
are satisfactory, and will continue to be used for the AF project activities. An ex-post review
of procurement activities relating to the project com leted in October 2006 concluded that
BANSEFI's procurement team (which will be hand ing all SAGARPA procurement
                                                      p
processing as under the Phase I project) is well-prepared, and has enhanced their experience
and understanding of procurement-related issues. The procurement system installed by
BANSEFI allows satisfactory monitoring, reportin ,and record keeplng of transactions. The
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans an       %for Selection and Employment of
Consultants, May 2004 (with the October 2006 corrigenda) will be applicable to expenditures
financed by the AF loan. A global procurement plan has already been prepared for activities
to be financed through the Additional Loan.

IV.      Consistency with CAS or CPS

43.      The AF project activities are strategically aligned with the Country Partnershi
                                                                                       PFY07-
Strategy (Report 37934, dated January 8,2007) which lists this project in the menu o
08 projects agreed with the Government of Mexico.




V.       Appraisal of Scaled-up Activities

44.        Economic and Financial Aspects. Economic effects are assessed for the most part
on a qualitative basis, and to ensure consistency with the Phase I approach to economic and
financial appraisal, the same methodology has been used for AF project activities. The
project does not propose to assess the viability of individual loans granted by participating
financial institutions since it does not provide a line of credit to the institutions for sub-
sectoral lending. It is essentially is a TA project focused on the institutional performance
directly, with the membership benefiting indirectly from project operations. Expected project
impacts are, therefore, assessed at three distinct levels: (a) client level benefits; and (b) sector
level outcomes; and (c) financial implications at entity level. Outcomes of the Phase I project
have alread demonstrated these benefits, and validated many of these assumptions,
indicating tKeir robustness.

45.      Client Level Benefits: The financial and economic benefits to households of
participating in the formal financial system as a result of the project will accrue at two levels:
(a) at the household level, directly as new users/clients of the mainstream financial system;
and (b) at the institutional level, as memberlowners of the participating institutions (the AF
targets cooperative financial institutions as participants).

46.      At the household level, benefits from participating in the formal system stem from
their use of formal financial products substituting for the most part for alternative informal
market mechanisms and transactions. First, as depositors, there are clear indications through
sector work that mainstreamin rural clients into the formal financial sector results in
monetization of their assets rat Ker  than maintaining these in physical form. This helps them
secure interest income, build creditworthiness (helping them to secure future loans), and
mitigates risks inherent in hysical assets. A secondform of benefit stems from the fact,
which has now been corro orated through household surveys of the Phase I project, that a
large proportion of the new membership (between 40-50%) eventually takes loans from their
institutions. This represents a move from their informal high cost sources of lending to the
more reasonably priced institutional loans. Third, access to institutional services also
involves being able to use formal remittances services - a major factor in rural Mexico, and to
purchase insurance products and other services that the institutions may offer.

47.      At the institutional level, the project will be assisting entities with a higher than B
classification for certification, indicating managerial and financial soundness (and hence
profitability). There are several factors which could potentially result in a further
improvement in the financial performance of these entities      - wider  markets and more
members (increasing their capital base), increased availability of loanable funds (savings
from members, among others), and more member responsive financial products (generate
more interest and fee income). All of these as ects are being addressed by the project. The
financial performance of these institutions wil improve, and since these are mainly financial
                                                 P
cooperatives, dividend from these entities would be a source of income to the members.

48.      All of the above factors - monetization of assets, reduced cost of borrowing, reduced
costs of other financial services (remittances, insurance), distribution of institutional rofits,
new membership and capital increases, new loans, will be monitored through stand-a one     P
studies and household surveys.

49.        Sector Level Outcomes: One of the key benefits of the project will be increased
access of financial services to, and depth of outreach of the rural financial sector institutions.
At the beginning of 2001, the client base of the SCI sector was expected to grow by about 16
percent per year over the course of the Phase I project. This would have resulted in the
expansion in the numbers of clients served by the participating SCIs from about 2 million to
about 4.2 million at the end of the project implementation period, an increase in access from
about 5 percent to almost 9 percent of the economically active population. Recent estimates
put this figure at about 4.0 million, expected to increase to about 5.5 million b 2011. Upon
completion of the AF project, both Phase I and AF projects would have direct         7ytargeted

close to 450,000 new members/clients in rural marginal areas, about 10%of the entire client
base, and integrated them into the formal rural financial sector.

50.      As for the depth of the SCI sector outreach, loan amount averages for the SCI sector
were in the range from 4 to 14 percent of GDP per capita in 1999,while average savings
balances were between 8 and 12percent of per capita GDP. In contrast, average deposit
balances in the banking system are estimated to amount to about 130percent of GDP per
capita. Expansion of the SCI sector, therefore, was expected to incorporate large numbers of
the low-income segments of the population.

51.      A comparative analysis recently carried out concluded that the de th of outreach of
the project, i.e., the extent to which it serves the rural poor, women, and t Re illiterate, stands
out in comparison not only to other Mexican institutiops but also with respect to much
acclaimed microfinance institutions in other countries. The project emphasized, and clearly
attained the key objective of deepening the outreach of participating financial institutions to
poor and mar inalized people in the regions of activity. This has been further confirmed by
results from t e BANSEFI household survey of 2004 recently released, which show that the
client population served by this component stands well below the general clientele of the
"popular banking sector" in terms of income, expenditures, and educational level.

52.        Providing financial services as a means of integrating poor households into the
national economy is clearly a poverty-alleviation tool. The technical service providers under
the Phase I project have: (a) developed new financial products which specifically meet the
requirements of the rural population; (b) introduced methodological innovations to serve
rural marginal areas in a cost-effective manner, such as the use of "pocket PCs" for data entry
in the field; and (c) used zoning techniques to define financially viable service routes to
provide wider access without compromising the viability of the institution. The population of
rural marginal areas has clearly gained from the services provided by these stronger, more
efficient SCIs through access to appropriate savings and de osit instruments, lending
products, and an improved ability to take advantage of rura productive investment
                                                                 P
opportunities.

53.      Financial Im~licationsat Entitv Level. Financial assessments of SCIs (or their
branches) in marginal areas show that these are financially strong, given the relatively high
interest rate margins with which they operate. The financial projections for SCIs in 2001
were prepared with lending rates more conservative than those prevailing in marginal areas
(50 percent annual rate, as opposed to the prevailing 60-100 percent which is charged by
microfinance institutions), as it was expected that interest rates would decline due to an
increased supply of financial services in rural areas. Institutions were expected to become
financially sustainable from the fourth year of operation.

54.      A recent assessment of Phase I pro ect entities showed that most entities were
certified or near-ready for certification, inc/icating strong financial, management, and
governance situation. According to the March 2007 review by the Bank, entities in four of
the seven regions showed operational self-sufficiency (operational revenues covering
operating costs) above 100percent; and portfolio quality measured as portfolio at risk over
90 days remained within commonly acceptable standards. At the end of eight years, when all
institutions supported under this component project would be operational, the return on
equity of project institutions is expected be about 15-20 percent.

55.      Technical Aspects. The AF project uses the Phase I approach, which has already
been tested, refined, and validated for its effectiveness in a similar sectoral setting, to scale up
the SAGARPA component. Certification is not an explicit objective of the AF project; the
technical assistance providers, however, are required to ensure that the existing classification
of the institutions for certification is at least maintained, if not improved.



  Paxton, Julia. "Analysis of Mexico's PATMIR Project." Ohio University Draft, August 2006,


                                                   9

56.     Institutional Aspects. This appraisal covers three main aspects: (a) implementation
arrangements; (b) financial management arrangements; and (c) procurement arrangements.
These are discussed below.

57.     Im~lementationArrangements. Both BANSEFI and SAGARPA project teams have
demonstrated considerable strength in managing their respective components. BANSEFI, as
the nodal implementing agency, has been coordinating the procurement function for
SAGARPA, preparing consolidated pro'ect cost and expenditure tables for reporting, and
managing the withdrawal applications    f'unction for disbursement. This arrangement has
worked smoothly over the last five years, and will be continued for the AF project activities.
Since SAGARPA activities under the Phase I roject and the AF project are sequential in
nature, there will be no additional burden on t Re implementation capacity of the SAGARPA
team which has managed the Phase I project activities effectively. The consultancy contracts
of the current SAGARPA Technical Team are being extended to retain the existing staff and
to provide for continuity.

58.     Financial Management Arrangements. Although annual reviews of the FM
arrangements have demonstrated satidactorv comvliance with Bank reauirements, the Bank
team iarried out a fresh assessment of the akangements since Bank's FM requirements have
been   fdated
      U        since appraisal of the Phase I roject. The assessment included a risk review,
an eva uation of the institutional capacity o SAGARPA, and a review of the performance of
                                              !
both SAGARPA and BANSEFI implementation teams under the Phase I project. The
assessment concluded the FM system to be satisfactory, and the overall FM-related risk for
this project is assessed as Modest. A summary of the FM arrangements is provided below.

    (a) Implementing enti and capacity. The project team within SAGARPA will continue
        to be responsible  ?orthe project's fiduciary aspects including accounting, FM
        re orting, internal control and funds flow;
    (b) F/'ow offunds and Disbursement. The project will use government re-financing as
        the basis for disbursement. The Loan Agreement, however, provi es the flexibility of
                                                                           2
        opening a US$ Designated Account into which Bank advances would be made should
        the government decide to change from government pre-financing to Bank advances
        for project expenditures. In such case the Bank disbursement method will change
        from reimbursement to advances to a US$ Designated Account, and the SOEs would
        be repared in US$. The US$ Designated Account (for advances) would then be
        difperent from the MXP account used for reimbursement;
    (c) Accounting and Internal Control.All policies and procedures related to flow of funds
        and disbursement comply with Bank standards. Financial statements will continue to
        be prepared using cash basis, and project funds will be processed through the
                            a
        financial system in lace at BANSEFI and SAGARPA, supported by documentary
        evidence for relate goods and consulting services;
    (d) FM section o the Operational Manual. The existing FM section of the Operational
                     deen
        Manual has         updated to incorporate these recent agreements; and
    (e) External Audit. The project Designated Account, Statement of Expenditures and
        Financial Statements (and accounts) will continue to be audited annually by auditors
        acceptable to the Bank. Audits carried out by the Secretariat of Public Function
        through SAGARPA's Internal Control Unit are considered acceptable.

59.     Procurement Arrangements. The existing procurement arrangements are found to be
satisfactory, and will be used "as are" without any change. The Request for Proposal for the
main procurement -technical assistance to entities -has been released, and the already
existing individual contracts with the SAGARPA project team will be extended. The only
other activity which needs to be contracted relates to M&E (for the new regions).

60.     Environmental Aspects. The project is categorized "C" from the environmental
viewpoint, re uiring no assessment of environmental impacts or preparation of an
environmenta management plan.
              'I

61.     Social Aspects. The only safeguard policy that is triggered by the Phase I operation
and the AF operation relates to IndigenousPeoples. The Phase I project approach involved
the preparation of the simplified IPDPs, carrying out social analyses, doing social
consultations,and eventuallypreparing an IP ParticipationPlan for each institution assisted
under the project. The implementationof these Action Plans through the technical service
providers under supervision of the SAGARPAteam has produced excellent results in terms
of increasingIP and women membership.A range of measures were taken by the institutions
specificallytargeted to IP communities. In all cases, existing traditional and cultural
structures were incorporated in the operating mechanisms and in mechanisms to romote    P~nancial
savings and credit: community committees are agencies of representation in the
institutions; the communit assembly is the principal agency m charge of decision
making; and the culture o   ?the  "tequio," another form of community support, has, in
many cases, facilitated the setting up of new branches. Consultants have taken into
account these typical characteristics of potential members and this has he1 ed in meeting
targets for IP population participation, reaching an average 26 percent oft      1e  total.

62.     Framework Aproach to IP-forAF Proiect Activities. The existing arrangements
under Phase I project for compliance with the IP Safeguard Policy OP4.10 have been found
to be effective. Given the complexity of the project, and the nature and scale of the proposed
project's potential effects on IP, the project will do the following: (a) at the macro level, it
will continue to use the detailed and comprehensive social analyses carried out for, and the
consultationoutcomes from, the seven regions covering 72% of the Mexican IP population;
and (b) at the microlentity-level,the project will follow an IP Framework approach.

63.     The IP Framework will have a differentiatedapproachto IP depending on the
whether the entities being assisted under the project also participated in Phase I project, and
whether the AF project entities are situated in the Phase I seven regions or the additional
regions covered by the AF project, as follows:

    (a) Entities in states covered under the Phase Iproject. These states will continue to use
        the detailed and comprehensivesocial analyses carried out for, and the consultation
        outcomes from, the seven regions coverin 72% of the Mexican IP po ulation.
        IndigenousPeoples Participation Plans wi     f1be up-dated for existing P ase I project
                                                                                  1
        entities, and prepared for new entities located in these regions, should there be a
        presence of IP population in the new entity's area of operation. The process will
        incorporate best practices already tested to ensurethat the project continues to benefit
        the IP population.

    (b) Entities in states outside the Phase Iproject regions. Entities in these states will use
        the Phase I project social analyses, consultation outcomes, some sample IP
        Participation Plans with an evaluation of achievementsas Phase I project experience
                                      a
        to enrich their understandin of the social and IP aspects, and prepare Indigenous
        People Participation Plans   S ould there be a presence of IP population in their area of
        operation. The process will involve doing an incremental social analysis and IP
        consultations.

64.     Terms ofReferencefor the technical assistance support. The Request for Proposal
already released for technical assistance indicates clearly to the prospective service providers
the need to: (a) incorporate staff in the assignmentteam with the capacity to carry out social
analysis and prepare IP Participation Plans; (b) do a quick screeningto ascertain the presence
of IP populations in the entity's operational territory; and (c) if IP population is present, carry
out an incremental social analysis and consult with the identified potential indigenous
beneficiariesto pre are an IP Participation Plan. SAGARPAwill provide appropriate
guidance to the tec f nicalassistance providers to carry out the incremental social analysis and
also prepare the IP Participation Plans.

65.     Implementation and monitorina o fIP Participation Plans. As under the Phase I
Project, the technical assistance providers will undertake field visits and, in consultation with

the indigenous communities, implement the IP Participation Plans, and present SAGARPA
progress reports every six months. SAGARPA will review these reports and suggest
remedial actions, where necessary. The Bank team, as a part of its regular review process,
will also assess compliance. Where the technical consultant indicates absence of IP
communities durin its screening process, and does not prepare an IP Participation Plan, this
fact will be verifieLfby SAGARPA, and spot-confirmed by the Bank during its review
missions.

66.      The IP Framework, the terms of reference for the technical assistance consultants in
this regards, and the implementation and monitoring arrangements have been incorporated
into the revised Operational Manual.

67.      Exceptions to Bank Policies. There are no exceptions to any Bank policy, and being
an Additional Financing project to scale up an existing project component, it is ready for
implementation.

VI.      Expected Outcomes

68.      The Additional Loan will finance scaling-up of the existing project's activities
relating to the "Expanding Financial Services to Rural Marginal Areas" component. Both
outcome and output indicators have been revised considering the additional targets.
Indicators relating to all other project components remain unchanged. A brief comparison of
the expected outcome and output indicators is provided below:

                                                  Phase I     Proposed Additional      Total Revised
                                                  Pr0.iect      Financing Project        Pr0.ject
Outcome Indicators
   (a) Low-income families in marginal            60,000             380,000             440,000
      areas accessing SCI-offered financial
      services
  (b) Project institutions operating under           21                 59                   80
      the law and showing satisfactory
      performance
Output Indicators
  (a) Number of points of service newly             189                350                  549
      created or existing strengthened
  (b) Number of new clients mainstreamed          60,000             380,000             440,000

                                                                         0                8,000
      financial matters
  (C)Women clients                                30,000              115,000            145,000
  (d) Clients in rural areas                      60,000             380,000             440,000
  (e) Participating institutions certified           21                 59                   80
      under the law

VIII. Additional Benefits and Risks

69.      Additional Benefits. The nature, scope and coverage of the scaled-up component
project activities are predominantly the same as those covered under the Phase I project.
Additional benefits from the AF project activities emanate from: (a) an additional 59
institutions and 350 points of service bein strengthened; and (b) an additional 380,000 new
clients being mainstreamed into the          rural financial sector, and accessing rural
financial services.

70.      Additional Risks. There were two main aspects which somewhat delayed the
implementation of this component under the Phase I project: (a) need for an extended
technical assistance period; and (b) need for an agreement between some consultants and

institution managements to strike a balance between certification and deepening penetration.
Both these factors have been addressed under the AF project.

71.      One of the key support areas to institutions under the Phase I project was to prepare
them for certification. This required an unexpectedly hu e amount of time. Both the
institutions and technical service providers were new to t    Re process. Under the AF project,
the selection criteria restrict the entry to only those institutions with a "B" or higher
classification (indicating near readiness for certification). Many technical service providers
are now fully familiar with the roject requirements, having participated under the Phase I
project. The project will there   forework with "quality" institutions, and with technical
services providers at the "higher end of the learning curve" and focused mainly on deepening
penetration and outreach (versus a combination of certification and deepening outreach as
under the Phase I project). This will enable completion of technical assistance within the
project period.

72.      Under the Phase I project, the technical service providers selected the institutions to
work with based on market studies. The approach to technical assistance under the AF
project will continue to be demand-driven. The institutions in the marginal rural areas and
technical service providers are required to communicate and interact with each other to reach
a mutual agreement on the working arrangements for each TA contract. This process may
take longer than usual, and therefore the Request for Proposal for this assignment has already
been issued in September 2007 to mitigate any start-up delay. The work plan provided in the
proposal of each technical service provider will include a list of institutions with whose
management it has reached an agreement to work. This is expected to ensure cooperation
and collaboration between SCI mana ements and technical service providers to improve
institutional performance in clearly i  fentified  areas.

73.      No changes are proposed in the project design, component approach, or
im lementation arran ements that would introduce any "additional" safeguard, fiduciary,
tec nical, institutiona or reputational risk that could jeopardize the achievement of the AF
   R                   f
project's development objective or compromise its outputs. Since the scaled-up project is
essentially sequential in nature, following com letion of SAGARPA Phase I project activities
in December 2007, there will be no additional      Eurden on the implementation, financial
management or procurement capacity of the SAGARPA or BANSEFI project teams.

IX.      Financial Terms and Conditions for the Additional Loan

74.      The financial terms for the Additional Financing Loan are as follows:

    (a) IBRD Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL), with a 15 year maturity and a five year grace
         period;
    (b) Front-end Fee (FEF) on Bank Loan: 0.25% of the US$21.00 million Additional Loan,
         to be financed out of the Loan Proceeds;
    (c) Interest Rate Basis: Variable;
    (d) Repayment Schedule: Fixed at Commitment, with the Level Repayment method; and
    (e) Conversion Options: Currency, Interest Rate and Caps/Collars, all to be financed out
         of the Loan Proceeds.




