Enhancing the outreach and sustainability of financial services in rural and marginal areas of
Mexico
                                                                                                         94113
                                                                                                         April 17, 2012




 Enhancing the outreach and sustainability of financial services in rural
 and marginal areas of Mexico


Overview
From April 2003 to February 2011, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD) provided support to the Government of Mexico to strengthen the savings, credit and
financial cooperative sector, and to improve the reach and range of financial services to the
poor, particularly those in remote areas or from marginalized populations. As a result, 70
percent of the sector (in assets and membership) is now served by institutions that are certified
and supervised. 440,000 people in rural and marginal areas, of which 53 percent were women,
gained access to financial services.


Challenge
In 2001, about three-quarters of all adults in metropolitan
                                                                    More Results
areas – and 85 percent of individual entrepreneurs – had no
access to commercial banks in Mexico.  In rural areas,

                                                                   70%
where about half the population lived in extreme poverty,
participation in the formal financial system was even lower;
as few as 2.5 percent of households had access to credit
from a financial institution in areas like Oaxaca or Huasteca.     of the sector (in assets and
                                                                   membership) is now served by
Savings and credit institutions, with about two million            institutions that are certified and
members, had shown some resilience to the 1994-1995                supervised
financial crisis and the capacity to reach poorer segments of
the population, but they still lacked a proper legal and


                                                                   440,000
regulatory environment and reliable supervision. The
government embarked on a strategy to strengthen the sector
by passing a Law of Savings and Popular Credit (Ley de
Ahorro y Crédito Popular) in 2001. But much work was               people in rural and marginal
needed to help the sector meet these new legal and                 areas gained access to financial
                                                                   services
regulatory requirements, to expand the scope of services
they provided, and to safely support their growth in
membership.


Approach
                                                                   US$127
The IBRD-funded “Savings and Credit Sector Strengthening
and Rural Microfinance Capacity Building Project” provided a       million
wide array of technical assistance services to the sector          is the total cost of the project
through the National Bank for Savings and Financial
Services ( Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios
Financieros , or BANSEFI). Specifically, it helped the sector’s
                                                                   LEARN MORE
institutions with their diagnostics, the design and
implementation of a strengthening plan for viable institutions       The National Bank for Savings
leading to their certification by the financial sector authorities   and Financial Services
(the National Banking and Securities Commission, or CNBV),           (BANSEFI)
or assistance with the liquidation or merger of unviable ones.
It also helped the stronger individual institutions expand
financial services in rural areas and promoted savings and
financial literacy among populations in these areas.  An
information technology platform was put in place to help the
sector expand the scope of services provided by the financial institutions and BANSEFI’s
branches so as to include remittances, the disbursement of government transfer payments,
deposits, and withdrawals or bill payments.


Results
The Project contributed to the achievement of the following results:

       By the beginning of 2011, 99 entities had been certified by the CNBV, representing
       about 70 percent of sector membership and assets.  Another 56 institutions are
       expected to be certified in 2012, bringing the total to about 90 percent of the sector's
       membership and assets.

       Between 2003 and 2011, the project increased outreach to particularly vulnerable
       segments of the population by 440,000 people, 53 percent of which are women and 18
       percent were indigenous peoples.

       The overall sector increased its membership over the 2003-2010 period from 1.8 million
       to 7.2 million (or from 4.3 percent to 15 percent of the economically active population).

       The sector also grew deposits from MXN15.5 billion to MXN68.8 billion and expanded
       the number of branches from 946 to 2,749.

       The supervision department of the CNBV was significantly strengthened through
       training, and supervision committees were established in all 13 authorized federations
       under the law of 2001.

       The project helped finance the development of a full-scale modular banking services
       platform for 66 institutions of the sector and for BANSEFI's 488 branches.  By 2010,
       BANSEFI had used the platform to issue 11.5 million debit cards and had over 6,000
       point-of-sale terminals.  In 2010 alone, it had processed 1.5 million international
       remittance transactions averaging US$500 and was reaching out to about 4.5 million
       recipients of government transfer payments. A wide range of services, including money
       transfers, invoice payments, account management, withdrawals and deposits, are now
       available in close to 2,400 locations through L@Red de la Gente, a commercial alliance
       between BANSEFI and the financial institutions.



Bank Contribution
IBRD contributed US$77.6 million in financing towards a total project cost of US$127.3 million.


Partners
IBRD has primarily worked with BANSEFI as its project partner, as well as the CNBV, the
sector regulator. BANSEFI has been critical in not only implementing the project, but also in
rolling out the services to its clients through its extensive branch network and information
technology platform, so as to enhance the accessibility of innovative financial services.


Moving Forward
Since this first project, IBRD has approved two additional phases bringing total IBRD financing
to approximately US$340 million. This additional support is helping to scale up operations,
increase outreach by another 2.3 million people in rural and marginal areas, and pilot and roll
out additional services, including mobile banking and basic financial services through
community stores and gas stations.  These additional phases should also allow approximately
90 percent of members to be served by institutions fully certified by the authorities, hence
ensuring a higher level of safety and sustainability.


Beneficiaries
This project greatly benefited the end-users of financial services: households primarily from
low- and middle-income segments of rural areas, which were for the most part either not
served or under-served by the banking sector.
