Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25345
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-40330; PPFB-P2770; PPFB-P2771)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$222.58 MILLION
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR A
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT PROJECT
1/16/2003
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C-URRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 25, 2002)
Currency Unit = Russian Ruble (Rub)
Russian Ruble 1.00 = US$ 0.03
US$ 1.00 = Russian Rubles 31.84
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS      Acquired Imnmune Deficiency Syndrome     MTR      Mid-Term Review
ARIME     All-Russian Institute of Medical Engineenng  NCB  National Competitive Bidding
CSO       Central Support Organization             NHA      National Health Accounts
DC        Direct Contracting                       NS       National Shopping
ECA       Europe and Central Asia                  OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
ECSHD     Europe and Central Asia Region, Human    OEM      Original Equipment Manufacturer
Development Sector                       PCD      Project Concept Document
GMP       Good Manufacturing Practice              PIU      Project Implementation Unit
HIV       Human Inimunodeficiency Virus            PHRD     Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
HRIP      Health Reform Implementation Project     PPF      Project Preparation Facility
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and  PSR    Project Status Report
Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding        QAG      Quality Assurance Group
ICR       Implementation Completion Report         RF       Russian Federation
IS        Intemational Shopping                    RHCF     Russian Health Care Foundation
LIB       Limited Intemational Bidding             SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
MEP       Medical Equipment Project                SCL      Single Currency Loan
MoE       Ministry of Economy                      STS      State Tax Service
MoF       Ministry of Finance                      TB       Tuberculosis
MoH       Ministry of Health                       US       United States
Mol       Mmistry of Interior                      WHO      World Health Organization
Vice President:       Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:         Julian F. Schweitzer
Sector Manager/Director:        Armin 1EH[. Fidler
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Kari L. Hurt



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Medical Equipment Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34






Project ID: P038571                                      Project Name: Medical Equipment
Team Leader: Kari L. Hurt                               ITL Unit ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date- Januari 16, 2003
1. Project Data
Namte: Medical Equipment                            LIC/TF Nunber   SCL-40330;
PPFB-P2770;
PPFB-P2771
Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                  Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Health (99%); Central govemment administration
(1%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   12/12/1994                             Effective: 11/15/1996        01/30/1997
Appraisal:  07/17/1995                               MTR:
Approval:  06/04/1996                              Closing: 06/30/1999         10/31/2001
Borrower/lmplemenrting Agency:  Government of the Russian Federation/Russian Health Care Foundation
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Julian F. Schweitzer                      Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:      Armin H. Fidler                           Robert B. Liebenthal
Team Leader at ICR   Kari L. Hurt                              Elaine W. Patterson
ICR Primary Author:  Jean J. de St. Antoine; Kari L.
Hurt
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU-Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Bonrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Qualty at Entry: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Timre: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Origznal Objective:
At the time of the appraisal in 1995, Russia was in its fourth year of economic transition. The Bank's
strategy was to help: (i) moderate the impact of transition on socially vulnerable groups by maintaining
social services and infrastructure while improving the efficiency of social expenditures; and (ii) establish
the Bank as a trusted and reliable development partner through the financing of high-priority public
sector investments and policy advice on key sector issues. This assistance would be provided under the
form of relatively fast disbursing loans in specific areas of the economy, including the social sectors. A
health reform project was under preparation. It would support improvements in health financing,
reorganization of the delivery system to emphasize ambulatory care, and other structural changes, but
would take a considerable amount of time to be designed and implemented.
In that context, the Govemment of the Russian Federation and the Bank made a strategic choice of a
relatively straighfforward health project focusing the range of interventions on investments in medical
equipment. The latter was outdated and in dire needs of being modemized. The project design would
allow broader geographic coverage and generate fairly quick, visible results, an important consideration
for a first project in a sector where full reform would take decades to complete. It can now be said that it
was the right project at the right time, especially considering that it overlapped with the economic crisis of
1997-98, a time when regional govemments had practically no funds of their own to invest in the health
sector. Although simple in its design, the project was seen as one that would initiate structural reform of
the health care system in Russia. Specifically, the objectives were to:
(i) increase the availability, range and quality of services provided by primary health care facilities and
raion hospitals in the targetted areas;
(ii) help reorient service delivery toward more cost effective health care;
(iiii) demonstrate decentralized decision-making for capital investments to the facility level; and
(iv) support policy development through the introduction of national health accounts.
The development objectives were sufficiently modest as long as the project is seen as being a necessary
factor among many other more structural reform efforts for the ultimate achievement of the objectives.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of the project objectives during the course of implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project originally had three project components to support the above objectives. The components
and the implementation mechanisms for those components were directly related to the achievement of
the objectives. The design of the components was simple and the Borrower eventually managed to
navigate difficulties in project implementation when they arised attesting to their commitment towards the
project. The original components achieved that which was originally planned and, as will be discussed
later, went beyond their original implementation targets. Specifically, the original project components
were as follows:
1. Provision of Medical Eauioment (US$300.0 million Planned cost). This component was designed to
target federal budgetary support to investments in regional primary and secondary health care services.
This support -- in the nature of of grant allocations for the purchase of medical equipment -- was either
replacing existing untargetted federal budget support to the regions or was supplementary in nature.
This component was to have financed medical equipment, related supplies and training, fumiture, spare
parts and maintenance equipment to targetted health care facilities in 34 oblasts. The targetted health
care facilities comprised primary care facilities (primarily polyclinics) and secondary care facilities (city,
district-level hospitals and matemity homes). These health facilities were themselves (in contrast to the
existing norm of central-level decision making) to choose among a list of eligible equipment types from a
- 2 -



positive list that was designed to meet the clinical needs of these types of facilities in the Russian
healthcare system. The equipment was purchased through the Loan provided by the Bank to the federal
govemment and was then passed on to the regions on a grant basis subject to matching 10% net
contribution plus required taxes and duties from the regions.
2. National Health Accounts (US$3.0 million planned cost). This component was designed to support
on-going and future health care reforms, by addressing the need for timely, reliable, and comparable
information on health care financing and trends in health care financing. The project was to have
provided necessary support to develop and implement a system of national health accounts (NHA) for
Russia by developing an appropriate framework for Russian Health Accounts, comparable to OECD
health accounts; arranging for existing data to be compiled into NHA format; and identifying information
gaps and developing cost-effective solutions for filling those gaps. The project was to have financed
consultant services, surveys, computer hardware and software, training and study tours.
3. Proiect Manaaement (US$2.0 million Nlanned cost). This component was designed to support the
project unit which was to be an agent of the Govemment for the purposes of administering and managing
the project. The project unit was originally under the direct authority of Ministry of Finance, who had
been leading the project preparation through negotiations, due to the partial budgetary support nature of
the operation. As will be discussed later, these arrangements were changed shortly after Loan
effectiveness.  The project was to finance the salaries of the staff comprising the unit, office
accomodation, supplies and equipment, utilities, staff travel and training, and related consultant services.
It was planned that the unit developed under the project would not exist beyond the project
implementation period, but that the skills in project management, procurement, and financial
management would be absorbed into other institutions required for the implementation of the
Govemment's investment program.
3.4 Revised Components:
During the implementation of the Medical Equipment Project, the Bank continued to have a dialogue with
the Russian Government and health sector officials on other areas of health sector reform. In 1999, the
Govemment specifically supported the preparation of two health sector interventions for possible Bank
financing -- one in the areas of TB/AIDS Control and the other in health systems planning and
optimization. The Medical Equipment Project had shown by 1999 that it had funds available -- due to
procurement savings and reduction in regional allocations - to be allocated for other activities that would
support its development objectives. Given that both interventions would help reorient service delivery to
more cost-effective health care (an original project objective), the Russian Govemment requested and
the Bank agreed to add a fourth component to the Medical Equipment Project supporting the preparation
of these two projects. Specifically, the component was as follows:
4. Preparation of the TB/AIDS and Health Reform Implementation Projects (US$2.6 million planned
cost) The component was to provide medical equipment, pharmaceuticals, consultant services, training
and study tours that would (i) design and pilot a system of prevention, diagnosis and treatment of
tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS and (ii) design a program of optimizing and financing the health services of
pilot oblasts.
Because the component contributed towards the achievement of one of the original project objectives
and due to the relatively small value of the component, the restructuring of the Project to include this
component was seen as minor requiring only an amendment of the Loan Agreement.
3.5 Quality at En try:
At the time of the preparation of this report, quality at entry is rated as satisfactory; measurement of the
quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group was not available in 1995-96 at the time of project
preparation. The objectives of the project were consistent with the Bank's 1996 Country Assistance
Strategy. The project benefited from strong government ownership, including that of the Ministry of
Finance that was closely involved from an early stage in the project design, including the selection of
participating regions.
-3 -



The project was well prepared and appraised. Limiting the investment possibilities to an agreed positive
list of equipment kept the project design simple. Additionally, limiting the project scope to lower-level
facilities supported the implementation of structural changes by increasing the range of services
provided by polyclinics and secondary care district hospitals and reorienting service delivery toward more
cost-effective health care. The early work during preparation with the selected regions allowed contracts
totaling US$185 million to be prepared and reach an advanced stage of bidding before loan
effectiveness. This resulted in more than half of the loan being disbursed during the first year.
Project management was also well designed.  At the Ume of Loan effectiveness, the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) was established as a legal entity, in accordance with an agreed charter and
intemal regulations. The PIU, established as the Russian Health Care Foundation (RHCF), reported to a
Trustee Council on whose board were represented the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance and
other key ministries. The RHCF was staffed from the beginning with high-quality personnel that had to
be supported with only a few additional positions during project implementabon when the administrative
burden of regional coordination, accounts and record keeping increased. The expertise of the local
consultants preparing the Project was financed through the support of the PHRD Grant supporting the
health reform preparation efforts provided by the Japanese Government. Given the logistic challenge of
procuring more than 5000 pieces of medical equipment and distributing them to about 2000 facilities
over half the territory of Russia, it was decided from the beginning that the RHCF would contract
additional procurement advisory services as well as a consolidating and forwarding agent. Those
contracts were in place prior to or at the time of effectiveness through the support of the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF).
One weakness in quality at entry lies in the risk assessment. The main risk presented in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) was the coordination of procurement and logistics, which tumed out to be well
under control as a result of the management arrangements. On the other hand, no mention is made of
the risk that regions may not be able to provide the required counterpart funds, about 10 percent of
project cost, possibly because the amounts required from each region may have appeared small at the
time of appraisal. Yet the economic crisis of 1997-98 was such that it left regions hard pressed to find
these resources. This resulted in a need to reallocate funds between regions, and for the Government to
draw upon resources from the federal budget in some cases. This caused significant delays during the
second part of project implementation.
Another potential weakness in the project is explained by the push for quick preparation (eight months
between identification and appraisal). The investments in medical equipment could have been more
efficient and contributed more to capacity development if some emphasis had been placed on
developing tools and resources that the facilities could draw upon when making their individual
investment choices. The project relied on the facilities to appropriately analyze their local needs and
capacities. While it is still assumed that the facilities made better choices than would have been made
by remote decision makers, it is also clear that facilities could have used more advice and guidance in
such issues as how to estimate minimum equipment workloads and annual operating and maintenance
costs in order to make more informed decisions.
A final project weakness was in the institutional design for implementing the national health accounts
component. As a condition of negotiations, an Interministerial Working Group was established for the
purposes of coordinating the national health accounts work. The actual development of the accounts
was undertaken by a small team of local consultants; the consultants were supposed to be subordinated
to the Working Group. In effect, the Working Group did not regularly follow or supervise the work of the
consultants. In addition, having the consultants work independently of a specific Governmental
department lead to difficulties during implementation when attempts were made to find an appropriate
institutional home for continuing the work. A stronger effort to designate a specific institutional
counterpart from the beginning may have lead to greater sustainability for the development of NHA
beyond the Project implementation period.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
- 4 -



4 1 Outcone/achievement of objective:
Objective 1. Increase the availability, range and quality of services provided by primary and
secondary care facilities in 34 regions of the Russian Federation. This objective is rated
satisfactory. The project has reached more beneficiaries than originally estimated. It has delivered all the
equipment contemplated under the project to 42 regions, compared to 34 originally contemplated. The
equipment was delivered to 1095 polyclinics and other peripheral units, 549 city and area hospitals, and
321 matemity homes and women's clinics, making a total of 1965 end users. The cost of the total
equipment provided was US$212 million, less than the US$270 million originally contemplated because
of significant savings resulting from competition under intemational competitive bidding (ICB), and
competitiveness of the local industry. The latter supplied 22 percent of the equipment by value. Using
various intemational comparators and a large sample of MEP contracts, it was calculated that Westem
European hospitals, which would not buy in bulk and which would have used subjective factors for
evaluation, would have paid 43 percent more for similar equipment.
During project preparation, there was concern expressed by Govemment officials, local industry officials,
and media and that the open, competive tendering required by the World Bank would decimate the local
medical equipment industry. The Bank worked with the officials to show that the Russian industry would
be competing in a level playing field through the allowance of the margin of preference and through very
limited qualification requirements related to previous experience, financial liquidity and tumover. Also,
licenses for supply of medical equipment in Russia were not required as part of the bidding procedure,
only prior to contract signing. These requirements for bidding applied equally to local and international
suppliers. As a result, local industry won 22% of the tenders (calculated on total value) due to their
competitive pricing. At the same time, relatively small, inexperienced intemational suppliers were also
able to win contracts. In speaking with the hospital managers and physicians, however, they often
requested that the equipment provided come only from the small number of large internationally
reknowed suppliers. In part, this is due to the normal bias of health professionals for certain
manufacturers, but it also stems from the quality and reliability of the equipment. Therefore, it is
necessary to find the appropriate balance between support to a struggling local industry and the need to
ensure the quality of the suppliers and equipment.
In May 2001, a project impact assessment was conducted by a sociology research institute. It concluded
that there has been a significant increase in the range and quality of medical services. The study used a
sample of 7 regions including 63 health care facilities, 20 before delivery of equipment and 43 after.
Interviews were conducted with 776 physicians and nurses and 5818 patients in 24 focus groups. After
delivery of equipment, 60 percent of patients stated that the range of medical services had expanded
and 91 percent of the total were satisfied with the new range of services.. This is particularly true of X-ray,
endoscopic, and ultrasound equipment. ECG monitors have improved the quality of cardiology care and
defibrillators have reduced mortality resulting from sudden cardiac arrest. Some of the project benefits
are illustrated in the reports of the focus groups. For example, in the Novgorod region, physicians
consider that the new equipment has improved the quality of matemal and child care and has helped
reduce infant mortality. The Orel region estimates that it has increased its production of X-rays by 70
percent, and an earlier detection of diseases has allowed treatment to start earlier and be more effective.
The equipment has also improved the safety of patients and physicians. New X-ray machines offer
better protection from radiation and there is no need to repeat picture taking. This was necessary with old
machines because their images had a poor resolution. Patients' comfort has also improved, notably as a
result of the introduction of modem dental equipment or flexible gastroscopes. The new equipment
reduces the risk of medical errors (e.g. by helping to better locate a stomach ulcer). Sterilizing
equipment is reported to have reduced hospital infections. The potential for outpatient services has
increased, and if patients have to be hospitalized their stay is shorter as diagnoses and some procedures
require less time. There are fewer queues. Physicians have become more confident and calmer, and 44
percent of patients consider that the interaction between physicians and patients has increased.
One of the most significant contributions of the project has been to cut down significantly on travel time
for patients. By increasing the range of equipment in municipal and raion facilities, the project has
- 5 -



avoided the need for patients and their families to travel to higher-level hospitals in the regions' capital.
These savings can be significant. In the European part of Russia, travel time reduction may be in the
range of 3-10 hours, but it may be even more as transportation networks are not well developed in most
rural areas. In Kaluga, for example, there are villages where there is only one bus that passes every
three days. In Siberia where distances are enormous, there will be major improvements in the quality of
life of patients and savings in transport costs. In many villages in the Krasnoyarsk region for example,
before the project, for simple procedures like X-rays patients had to be transported 100-300 km and in
some cases as much as 800 km to areas where these services were available.
Objective 2. Help reorient service delivery toward more cost-effective health care. This objective is
rated satisfactory. The project has had a major impact in reducing the number of referrals to higher-level
facilities. Interviews conducted in a sample of six regions after equipment delivery show that 62 percent
of patients did not have to be referred to other facilities. Dental and X-ray equipment brought the most
reduction in referrals (for about 70 percent of patients) followed by endoscopic and cardiological
equipment (for about 60 percent of patients). Efficiency gains come from reduction in the cost of
transport of patients and because treatment costs are lower at raion and municipal facilities compared to
central regional hospitals that employ large numbers of specialists. According to 73 percent of physicians
surveyed, the time taken for diagnosis has been reduced. The reduction in medical errors as well as in
hospital infections will contribute to shorten the length of stay.
An important issue is the extent to which each piece of new equipment is used efficiently. According to
the survey, ultrasound units, X-ray equipment, gastroscopes and ECGs are intensively used. However,
equipment such as colonoscopes, rectoscopes, and complex laboratory equipment like coagulation
analyzers are used less often. One possible way to use this equipment more efficiently would have been
to locate it in a referral facility that would receive a larger number of patients from different areas.
However, the trade-off would have been a longer travel time for patients. No quantitative analysis on this
question was undertaken under the project or by the impact evaluation. Further analysis of that issue
should be undertaken as part of the design of similar future projects or by the government in the normal
course of its investments.
Objective 3. Demonstrate decentralized decision-making for capital investments to the facility
level. This objective is rated satisfactory. For the first time, decision-making was decentralized on a large
scale as individual orders were placed by 1965 health facilities. As required by the project, beneficiary
facilities placed their own orders out of a positive list of equipment. These requests were then
assembled by the regional health authorities and transmitted to the RHCF. Many regions just aggregated
the requests, but a number of them had a more active role. It appears that the more active regions, such
as Novgorod region and Tatarstan Republic, may have ended up with better investments because they
had a more strategic view of the whole health care network and the relative needs of individual facilities.
They concentrated the equipment in a number of key facilities, and this may have been more
cost-effective compared to other regions that spread the investment thinner across a larger number of
facilities.
Objective 4. Support policy development through the introduction of national health accounts.
This objective is rated marginally satisfactory. The project has started to build the government's capacity
to monitor health spending which is an essential step in rationalizing health expenditures. The national
health expenditure matrices for 1994-1999 have been produced by the Russian health accounts group.
The MOH has confirmed the importance of National Health Accounts for the govemment by moving the
responsibility of the development of these accounts into their Economics and Policy Department. The
Health Reform Implementation Project (to be negotiated before end of 2002) will help strengthen the
capacity of this department and develop regional health accounts.
4.2 Outputs hy components:
Component 1. Medical Equipment (Actual Cost: US$251.80 million). Implementation Rating:
Satisfactory.
-6 -



This component was to have provided medical equipment and related consumable supplies and training
to selected primary and secondary facilities in 34 regions of the Russian Federation. The main
categories of the equipment are as follows: radiological, ultrasound, surgical, ventilator and anaesthetic,
functional diagnostic, endoscopic, laboratory, neonatal and dental equipment. The original value of the
equipment, supplies and services to be delivered was estimated to be US$300 million and the number of
health facilities benefitting was to be 1300. The number of equipment items and number of trained
personnel were not established as indicators since the project implementation mechanisms took a
bottom up approach, allowing the regions and finally the health facilities themselves to decide on the
investments. Finally, the project delivered US$251.80 million in equipment, consumable supplies,
training and related services (including taxes and duties) to 1965 different eligible health facilities in 42
regions. Of this amount, US$211.5 million was directly spent on medical equipment and consumables
(51,368 medical equipment items and 492,000 consumable items) following three different phases of
procurement. Contracts were generally targetted towards the manufacturers of equipment and not big
distributers. The volume of the equipment being purchased allowed this. As a result, more than 510
contracts were signed with 82 different manufacturers located in 21 different countries.
The value of the equipment, related supplies and services purchased was signficantly less than originally
intended (US$300 million versus US$251.8 million). This was mainly due to two factors. First, it was
due to the efficiency of the procurement. The final bids of the first round of procurement was more than
35% less than expensive than originally budget (the savings was more than US$50 million). This is not
attributable to inflated budget projections. An analysis of the prices received in comparison to Western
European market prices indicated a savings of similar magnitude which can be attributed to the large
volume of the equipment being purchased at one time, the nature of the ICB procurement procedure
which basis the selection on price; and the competitiveness of the Russian industry. Because the
regional allocations were based on the US$ value of equipment, the regions were eligible to submit
requests for equipment in a second (and eventually third) round of procurement. However, many regions
were unable to meet the counterpart funding requirement - 10% matching contribution (necessary for
the logistics support) and all necessary taxes and duties -- and this situation reached a critical point
during the 1998 financial crisis in Russia. As a result, the project had at one point in time nearly US$40
million equipment waiting for clearance at customs houses around the country. The situation was
eventually resolved through a reallocation of funds and equipment amongst regions, which allowed even
more regions to participate; the payment of some regional debts by the Federal Government; and the
cancellation of US$47.4 million from the Loan proceeds which could not be purposefully used during the
lifetime of the Project.
For many of the relatively more complicated equipment items, training has been provided to the users of
the equipment by the agents of the equipment suppliers. The quantity of individuals trained directly by
the suppliers was not captured by the project monitoring system. Under a specific contract for training in
medical equipment maintenance and operation, 510 individuals received certificates which would allow
them to receive a license for maintaining certain types of equipment. An additional 2745 physicians,
nurses, laboratory assistants, and other technical personnel were trained in response to the request from
the regions in the operation of the equipment. The additional training of the users and the maintenance
providers were not originally part of the project design, but were added due to the perceived need during
implementation.
The Project also established a Central Support Organization (CSO) at the All-Russian Institute of Medical
Engineering (ARIME) to continue beyond the life of the project. The CSO was seen as necessary to
facilitate the continued provision of spare parts and consumables of the equipment delivered under the
project; the CSO would facilitate this by keeping contact with the regions, health facilities and with the
Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and by exchanging information. As an additional benefit, the
CSO has potential for developing and/or disseminating medical equipment management tools;
disseminating information on cost-effective methods of procuring necessary equipment, spare parts, and
consumables; and for disseminating information on available training. The CSO was established shortly
before Project closure. The achievement of their potential will in large part depend on the marketing of
their services and demand from the clients.
- 7 -



Component 2. National Health Accounts (Actual Cost: US$1.00 million). Implementation Rating:
Marginally Satisfactory.
The Project supported a small national health accounts unit, staffed with consultants, under the authority
of an intersectoral ministry steering committee, lead at various times either by the Minister or Deputy
Minister of Health. The steering committee was itself not a very demanding client in terms of using the
national health accounts. Some members were generally more supportive or interested (MoH and MoE),
but this institutional mechanism did not lead to a mainstreaming of the work into one of the Ministries or
an active use of the information. The original project component did not set an explicit target for the
institutionalization of this NHA work. However, it was part of the dialogue with the MoH during
supervision. By the end of the Project, the MoH had designated a responsible department and had
committed to continuing the work, especially in the area of regional health accounts. The proposed Bank
project on Health Reform Implementation is to continue the dialogue with the Govemment on these
issues and will continue to push for a sustainable institutional framework.
The project provided training through study tours, short-term training events and conferences to the
consultants, members of the steering committee, and some members of the key MoH department.
Additionally, the NHA consultant group provided training to a few of the regional health authorities. In
total, twenty-seven people were trained in the use and development of national health accounts. Other
key expenditures were for modest surveys of out-of-pocket expenditures in the Novgorod region and for
setting up a pilot data collection and information system also in Novgorod.
The component produced the methodological framework for the Russian national accounts system, in
line with OECD methodology. Technical assistance was provided to the consultants by US and OECD
health accounts experts, which confirmed the appropriateness of the methodology being used. A
time-series of health accounts matrixes for the period 1994-1999 were produced and published. The
information contained within these matrixes are as follows: (i) overall consumption of health services by
residents and goods by type of providers and sources of funding; (ii) overall consumption of health
services and goods by types of services and providers; (iii) overall consumption by providers and
sources of funding; (iv) overal consumption by types of services and sources of funding; and (v) a
summary of health care expenditures, including sector-related activities. This information and some
analysis has been provided and printed in a series of articles in the Russian Health Care Economics
Joumal and in a stand alone book. Because the implementation timeframe of the project was extended,
the time-series of Russian NHA was extended beyond that which was originally planned.
Component 3. Project Management (Actual Cost: US$3.20 million). Implementation Rating: Highly
Satisfactory.
The Project supported the establishment of the Russian Health Care Foundation and its operation, as it
related to the Medical Equipment Project. As mentioned previously, the PIU was originally conceived as
a small unit administratively and functionally subordinate to the Ministry of Finance due to the
pecularities of the relationship between the Bank and the Minstry of Health at that time and because of
the budgetary support nature of the project. Prior to the Project being finalized, however, the Bank,
MoH, and MoF reached agreement on a more active participation of the MoH in the process of
implementation. At the same time, a standardized Project Unit structure was being established in the
Russian portfolio based on a Foundation model, govemed by a Board representing the relevant sectoral
and economic ministries. Therefore, prior to effectiveness, the Bank and Government agreed to the
establishment of the Russian Health Care Foundation which would be used to support the
implementation of the Medical Equipment and Health Reform Pilot Projects. Within the RHCF, the
Projects share certain administrative and functional services while maintaing dedicated project
coordination staff.
The Project team consisted of a Project Director, Regional Coordinator and Assistant, Procurement
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Regional Accountant, Disbursement Officer, and Administrative
Assistant. The team was supplemented by a general management consultant, procurement advisory
services, and a consolidation and forwarding agent to handle the logistbs aspects of the Project.
- 8 -



The Component is rated highly satisfactory due to the high motivation and professionalism of the team,
many of whom remained with the project from its preparation to completion; their ability to manage
changes in the management of the national Ministry of Health as well as all of the changes at the
regional level; and ability to steer the project through very difficult implementafion problems. All of this
was in addition to the performance of the necessary procurement, financial management, reporting and
coordination functions satisfactorily. The project team set up the framework for the Russian Health Care
Foundation which supports the implementation of the Health Reform Pilot Project and was instrumental
in the preparation of two new proposed projects in the area of TB/AIDS and health systems planning and
optimization. Finally, many of the original project team members continue to support the Govemment
through their work on Bank-financed projects.
Component 4. Support for the Preparation of the TB/AIDS and Health Reform Implementation
Projects (Actual Cost: US$1.10 million). Implementaiton Rating: Satisfactory.
The component was to provide technical and material support for the preparation of the two new
Bank-supported health projects in the area of TB and AIDS control and in the area of health system
planning and optimization, until such time as other funds might be available to support their preparation.
The project supported consultant services and minor office equipment for the preparation of the projects
operational manuals and implementation plans. Both new projects were at an advanced stage of
preparation at the time of the closure of MEP. There were several principal issues on the project which
had to be agreed with the Govemment authorities. At time time of preparing the ICR, both projects
were soon to be negotiated, having received additional preparation assistance from the Portfolio
Development Loan.
Summary.   As shown, the project components and outputs from those components directly supported
the achievement of the project objectives.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Economic Rate of Return for this project was determined, during preparation, as non-quantifiable.
Additionally, it was fully recognized that the provision of necessary medical equipment to regional
primary and secondary care facilities was only a first step in making the Russian health car3 delivery
system more efficient. In parallel and over the long term, more structural reforms of the system are
necessary. The Bank's other support (lending and non-lending) to the Russian health sector has been
able to take this perspective due, in part, to the initial support generated by the Medical Equipment
Project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has provided the MoH with a methodology for large-scale investment in medical equipment.
It was the first time in Russia that investment in the health sector was undertaken in a systematic way
and on such a large scale and the MoH considers that the MEP has allowed it to "acquire significant
experience in project management." It has leamed that it was not necessary for the MoH to do
everything itself and that some key functions are best contracted out to the private sector. During project
implementation, the MoH has acquired significant knowledge of the procurement process for medical
equipment, including preparation of technical specifications, bid processing and evaluation, and contract
award. It has also improved its knowledge of custom clearing, warehousing and distribution of
equipment on a large geographic scale. The MoH is now better equipped to monitor and supervise the
execution of services that are contracted out.
The project has provided regions with the understanding that reorienting investment toward lower-level
facilities is cost-effective and improves quality of care for patients. It may also have influenced some
regions to deepen the reform.
-9-



An important cadre of health sector staff has been trained in equipment use and maintenance. A total of
2745 physicians, nurses, laboratory assistants and technical personnel from all 42 regions have been
trained by the project. Also, a Central Service Organization, created by the project under the auspices of
the All-Russian Institute of Medical Engineering, will provide lasting benefits to health facilities by
disseminating cost-effective methods of procuring equipment and consumables, help them locate service
companies or specialized individuals, and provide them with medical equipment management tools.
Finally, the project has helped develop a team of experts from the MoH knowledgeable in the design and
implementation of National Health Accounts. National health experiditure matrices have been produced
for 1994-1999. These classify health expenditures by functions of care, health care providers, and
sources of funds. More work needs to be done to improve the information gaps in the matrices and to
develop regional health accounts, but the project has already strengthened the MoH's capacity to monitor
and analyze health spending, which puts it in a better position to manage the system and rationalize
health expenditures.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governnient or implementing agencyv:
Russian Geography: Implementation of a project in the world's largest country spanning more than 17
million square kilometers and 11 time zones, including difficult climatic conditions, is its own huge
challenge. The logistical challenges were immense and required the large attention to the details of the
how these challenges would be managed.
Failure of Commercial Bank: As a result of the financial crisis in 1998, the commercial bank holding the
Special Account went bankrupt. At the time of the bankruptcy, approximately US$645,000 was on the
balance of the account. The Govemment had to refund this amount to the Bank. Additionally, the RHCF
had to set up new banking arrangements in a state bank recommended by the MoF which required time
and effort.
5.2 Factors generally sutbject to government conn-ol:
Financial Crisis in 1998. The issue of counterpart funding from the regions was a difficult issue prior to
the 1998 financial crisis; however, it became a severe problem in the months leading up to and
immediately following the crisis. The full extent of the crisis may not been completely within the
governmental control (especially not the regions), but the decisions made by the regions and the federal
government as a result of the crisis are assessed as relevant. Several regions went into default on
counterpart funding arrears for equipment already ordered. This resulted in Federal Govemment
financing of those arrears; changes in regions participating in the projects; and reallocation of equipment
and allocations amongst participating regions. These issues took about one year to resolve and the
highest levels of Govemment and Bank involvement.
Govemment Commitment. In 1999 when the Project was experiencing severe difficulties, closing the
Project and cancellation of all remaining proceeds were seriously considered. The Govemment
confirmed its commitment to the Project and undertook extra-ordinary measures such as setting up
specific federal-regional transfers earmarked for the purpose of the counterpart funding and approving
the payment of defaults in counterpart funding. In the end, the Project was only able to continue due to
these extra-ordinary steps.
Governmental Changes. The implementation period (1996-2001) was a time of relative political
instability in Russia. The Government cabinet posts changed frequently. The Minister of Health
changed annually. Because of the way that the Project was designed, the Project was able to continue
operating on a day-to-day basis. However, critical issues (1998-1999 and the fallout of the crisis) and
institutional issues (NHA sustainability) were more difficult to address in this environment.
Customs Regulations. The RHCF and their Logistics Contractor experienced difficulty in management
the customs clearance processes due to the frequent and unclear changes to customs regulations.
- 1 0 -



Additionally, the number of contractors posed an additional problem related to customs clearance. Often
the contractors submitted improperly prepared documentation which required extra effort to clear
customs. The RHCF attempted to control this through its relations with the contractors, including the
threat of penalties.
Govemment - Project Unit Relations in General. The attitude and approach of the Government towards
the legally independent, external Project Units would vary. This lead to an uncertain implementing
environment at times and concretely lead to negotiations and delayed approval in annual operating
budgets of the RHCF which contributed to difficulties in project implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementinig agency control:
The Russian Health Care Foundation performed extremely well managing a logistically challenging
project (deliverying more than 50,000 medical equipment items to 2000 different end-users in 42
different regions around the Russian Federation; 514 different contracts with 84 different manufacturers
in 21 countries; 8 different regional warehouses and and remote customs entry points) in a difficult
implementation environment (financial crisis; changes in Government at the national and regional
levels). The core staff of the Foundation responsible for the Medical Equipment Project maintained their
commitment and drive throughout the implementation. In fact, many of the staff participated in the
preparation. The RHCF and the MEP team became a reliable and trusted service provider to the MoH,
rather than developing an adversial relationship. The RHCF used technical assistance appropriately to
support them in handling the large volume of work.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The final Total Project Costs of US$257.10 million is notably less than the projected Total Project Costs
at the time of appraisal (US$305.00 million). The explanation for the under-execution is explored by
component below:
Component 1. Medical Equipment (83.93% execution). Due to the size of this component, the
under-execution of this component is the principal reason for the under-execution of the entire project.
As mentioned earlier, it is principally due to the savings that accrued as a result of the ICB procurement
process; competitiveness of local industry; and the inability or unwillingness of regions to devote their
scarce budgetary resources during the financial crisis towards the requirement counterpart financing
(10% for logistics services plus taxes and duties).
Component 2. National Health Accounts (33.33% execution). At the time project appraisal, there was no
specific investment plan for the preparation of the national health accounts. Rather, an overall monetary
allocation was earmarked to provide the resources necessary to respond to opportunities and requests
that would support the national health accounts efforts. The annual workplans for the Russian health
accounts efforts did not justify or require the use of the full allocation. Therefore, despite the longer than
planned implementation period, only one-third of the original allocation was used.
Component 3. Project Management (1 60% execution). The original closing date of the Project was June
30, 1999. Because more implementation time was needed to utilize the funds saved as a result of the
procurement process and to deal with the implementation difficulties arising from the financial crisis, the
Project closing date was eventually extended until October 31, 2001. The additional 2.4 years of
implementation was almost an effective doubling of the implementation time period. Therefore,
additional project management funds were required. The scope of the increase is within reason.
Component 4. Support for the Preparation of TB/AIDS and Health Reform Implementation Projects (not
originally planned). This component was not originally part of the project design. Therefore, the US$1.1
million spent of the activities related to the preparation of these Project is a net gain. It had been hoped
to finance US$1.5 million of additional activities related to the preparation. However, the political and
technical diffiulties surrounding the TB/AIDS Project in 2001 slowed down the pace. The Project then
closed. Fortunately, both the HRIP and TB/AIDS Project are now moving forward, substantiating the
initial investments.



The Govemment and Bank responded appropriately to the under-execution by cancelling parts of the
Loan when it was clear that it could not be used purposefuly to achieve the development objectives.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated as likely. A number of positive factors contribute to the sustainability of
the project. First, as part of the project, a total of 2745 end users (physicians, nurses, laboratory
assistants and technical personnel) from all 44 regions have been trained to use and maintain the
equipment.
Second, the MOH has created, under the auspices of the All-Russian Institute of Medical Engineering, a
Central Support Organization with the objectives of: (i) making available information on medical
equipment and medical equipment management; (ii) disseminating cost-effective methods of procuring
equipment, spare parts and consumables; (iii) assisting end-users in locating experts and service
companies; (iv) providing medical equipment management tools and services for end users; and (v)
making equipment performance data available for analysis.
Third, a one year supply of consumables was provided. This allows the new equipment to remain fully
operational while health facilities and regions review their budget requirements for the following years.
A more difficult question is the extent to which resources will be available for the financing of
maintenance and supplies. The evaluation undertaken by the sociological research institute estimates
that the cost of expendable materials necessary would represent about 10 percent of the budget of health
facilities. When the survey was conducted in May 2001 after the delivery of equipment, about 10 percent
of physicians and nurses considered that there were not enough funds to purchase materials and spare
parts, compared to 14 percent before delivery. The financing of recurrent costs can come from three
sources: medical insurance funds, raions and municipalities, and private out-of-pocket payments. A
small amount of additional funds will come from health insurance funds in line with an increase in the
volume of some types services such as X-rays. As the Russian economy continues to improve, the
regions' fiscal situation will be strengthened and raions and municipalities will logically have more
resources for the health sector.
The sustainability of the Russian national health accounts efforts is also a serious concem. The MoH
assigned the Economics and Planning Department to be responsible for continuation of the work. An
individual in that department had been trained. The information collected, methodological guidelines,
materials and equipment that were support the NHA development were transferred to that department.
However, given the work program priorities, the national health accounts effort is not likely to be continue
without a strong client requesting the information. Continued support for this work, especially in the
development of regional health accounts, where there is more likely to be interested counterpart was
planned under the proposed Health Reform Implementation Project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All of the medical equipment items were transferred as assets to the health facilities. Any outstanding
warranty obligations were passed from the RHCF to the CSO. The facilities were informed of the CSO's
role in facilitating the response of the equipment suppliers to any claims covered by the warranty as well
as their longer-term role in providing technical infomnation on the equipment, spare parts and
consumable lists, contact information of the suppliers, service agents, etc...
The NHA work was made the official responsibility of the Economics and Planning Department of the
MoH. All technical and material information being used for the purpose of the NHA was tranferred to this
department. In general, this issue requires continued discussion with the MoH. Continued support for
NHA, in particular the development of regional health accounts, was planned under the Health Reform
Implemention Project subject to the MoH establishing the appropriate institutional basis for the work at
the center.
- 12 -



The Russian Health Care Foundation continues to exist and support the MoH in implementation and
preparation of Bank-supported health operations. The Director of the Medical Equipment Project was
also the Executive Director of the Foundation. Following his departure after the Project closure, the
management of the Foundation passed on relatively easily to new hands. Some of the original members
of the MEP team continue to work and support the activities of the RHCF.
The preparation of the TB/AIDS and Health Reform Implementation Projects continued through other
financing (Portfolio Development Loan). Both of the Projects are likely to be negotiated in the current
Fiscal Year. The Russian Health Care Foundation was selected as being responsible for their
implementation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7 1 Lending:
The Bank performance during preparation is rated as satisfactory. As mentioned earlier, the Bank was
responsive to the Russian Govemments request for a simple, relatively quick disbursing operation aimed
at supporting the regions and the health sector. The design and nature of the operation was consistent
with the Country Assistance Strategy at the time. The project was well prepared and was already in the
process of being implemented at the time of Loan effectiveness due to careful planning, simplicity of
design, and availability of the Project Preparation Facility. The project preparation slowed in late 1995
due to negotiations with the Ministry of Health over the project scope (the positive list of equipment to be
financed; the conditions for participation of local industry; and the role of MoH during implementation).
The negotiations were eventually concluded with active engagement of the Ministry of Finance,
Economy and Bank management which lead to technical discussions prior to negotiations to resolve
these issues (March 1996). In hindsight, the Project may have used the opportunity of a delayed
preparation schedule to develop some tools to build the capacity of the local officials and health facility
managers in choosing the appropriate equipment. However, the Project was not designed as a capacity
building operation. Earlier discussion indicated that the Bank failed to appraise the lack of counterpart
funding as a risk - presumably because of the relatively small amount required - and to take sufficient
measures to counter this risk. However, the severity of the risk, given the 1998 financial crisis, was not
forseeable at the time of appraisal and any mitigating measures developed at that time would likely have
been insufficient. The planned institutional arrangements changed during preparation, leading up to
Loan effectiveness, to include more active oversight and involvement of the Ministry of Health. The
Bank appropriately responded to the opportunity for the involvement of the Ministry which had been up
until that time, very difficult to organize. The preparation team which included an operations officer,
health specialist, biomedical engineer, health accounts specialist, and project assistants was small, but
included necessary skills. The management of the Bank was highly engaged during project preparation
and provided particular guidance when difficulties arose.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank performance during supervision is also rated as satisfactory. The Bank provided regular and
timely supervision, including several trips to the regions to discuss implementation directly with local
officials, health facility managers, physicians and patients. The project team alerted Govemment and
Bank management authorities about significant implementation issues.  During the critical
implementation period of 1998-1999, the Bank management was actively engaged in discussing
potential resolutions with the Govemment. When it came time to cancel and/or extend the project in
1999 when the project performance was unsatisfactory, the Bank and Govemment agreed on a set of
measured progress indicators and only extended the Project in line with the achievement of those
indicators. The core supervision team included an operations officer, a medical equipment engineer, a
national health accounts specialist, a procurement specialist, and a local project officer. The general
composition of the team was appropriate and there was some continuity between the preparation and
supervision team members. The project team took several opportunities to expand the project scope, by
organizing additional training and supporting the establishment of an institutional mechanism to
potentially improve sustainability, in order to have better impact on the development objectives and
long-term sustainability. In retrospect, the opportunity should have also been taken to raise the
- 13 -



awareness and capability of local and central-level officials on health technology assessments.
Additionally, the focus on the outcome indicators and measurements came too late. By then, it was too
late to quantitatively measure key indicators on utilizabon and referral rates. Finally, the quality and
timeliness of the Project Status Reports could have been improved. All of the these positive and critical
aspects of the Bank supervision were discussed with the Quality Assurance Group during three
successive assessments (1998-2000). Bank supervision effort was rated by the QAG in each year as "2"
further subtantiating the satisfactory rating.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above considerabons, overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Ministries of Finance and of Economy played the most active role during the project preparation.
The Bank and the Ministry of Health did not have a strong working relabonship at this time. The Ministry
of Health became much more involved in the time period between the appraisal of the Project (August
1995) and the negotiabtons of the Loan (April 1996). The need to reach agreement with the Ministry on
the equipment list, their role during implementation and the role of the Russian medical equipment
industry required time. Agreement was reached during technical discussions in March 1996 and
subsequently during negotiations which lead to a stronger basis for project implementation. The
Govemment reached key decisions on the project design during the preparation - specifically the grant
basis for the project, the selection of the regions and allocation per region, the positive list of equipment,
and the inter-sectoral Steering Committee for national health accounts. Additionally, the Government
committed resources towards the detailed preparation and readiness for implementation by requesting
two separate advances from the Loan from the Project Preparation Facility.
7.5 Governmentimnplementationperformance:
With a few occassional excepbons, the Govemment supported the objectives and the implementation
mechanisms of the project. The main authorities that had defaulted on the conditons of the Loan (with
the inability to finance the required counterpart funds) were the regional govemments. This default was
occuring amidst considerable difficulty for the Russian Federabon. Eventually, the Govemment took
tough decisions to restructure the regional allocations; pursue earmarked inter-govemmental transfers for
recovering outstanding counterpart funds; and eventually to pay-off unrecoverable counterparting debts.
The commitment of the Govemment towards the project was illustrated during this time of unsatisfactory
performance as cancellabon of the full remaining balance of the Loan and closure of the Project was a
real possibility. Only through the active Govemment measures was the project extended and eventually
closed satisfactorily.
The Govemment's intersectoral working group on national health accounts was not active and did not
become a user of the information that was produced. The Ministry of Health did provide support, but
they did not establish themselves as the main client of the information. The Ministry did agree to take on
the continued responsibility for the national health accounts. The Govemments performance in this area
remains to be seen. The Bank will continue to monitor the demand, use and development nabonal
health accounts as part of its on-going policy dialogue with the Govemment.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
As mentioned previously, the work of the Russian Health Care Foundation is rated as highly satisfactory.
The RHCF performed well the day-to-day tasks of procurement, financial management, reporting and
coordination. In addition, the RHCF managed to mobilize Govemment action to resolve critical
implementation problems with the Project which threatened its satisfactory outcome.
In terms of procurement, the results of 30%-40% savings over normal market rates for similar equipment
as reported earlier. There were, of course, procurement complaints during the process. This was to be
expected given the competitive nature of the industry. Each complaint was handled appropriately
including the active involvement of the ECA Regional Procurement Advisors Office.
- 14 -



The Project was audited annually by an external auditor, selected according to terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank. All management letters returned an unqualified opinion. In addition to the
normal description of the audit, the Medical Equipment Project included a physical audit of the medical
equipment provided to the regions. The purpose of the physical audit was to find out if the equipment
had indeed been delivered; whether it was in the appropriate facility; and whether it was functional. Each
audit report was similar in that there were no cases of missing equipment or equipment relocated to an
ineligible facility. Each audit report helped identify equipment - particulary x-ray equipment -- that was
not in use due to lack of appropriate environment for installation or need of repair services.
Useful progress reports were submitted regularly and on a timely basis. The focus of the progress report
was naturally on the implementation progress. As with the Bank team, the RHCF could have focussed
more on the outcome assessment of the project. However, the Bank should have recognized the lack of
skills with the implementation team capable of developing and implementing the impact indicators and
mobilized additional assistance.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above considerations, overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
A simple design was appropriate for the Bank's first loan in the health sector in Russia. It was the
first time in Russia that investment in the health sector was undertaken in a systematic way and on such
a large scale. This was made possible by the project's simple design which allowed it to have a quick and
visible impact on the health sector. At the same time, the simple design was consistent with broader
reform  objectives.  The loan disbursed relatively quickly, especially during the first year of
implementation, and helped establish the Bank as a trusted and reliable partner.
It is possible to undertake a large-scale project over at least half the territory of Russia. This was
made possible by keeping the project design simple and using a procurement agent as well as a
consolidating and forwarding agent.  The procurement agent helped the RHCF prepare bidding
documents, evaluate bids, recommend contract awards and supervise the work of the consolidation and
forwarding agent. The latter was responsible for receiving and inspecting medical equipment, providing
space in eight regional warehouses, and ensuring the delivery of equipment to the final users. The
RHCF's performance had been outstanding in planning this process and managing it on a day-to-day
basis.
The positive list of equipment and the early selection of regions were Instrumental In getting the
project off to a quick start. This has allowed for project preparation to be detailed and advanced. Even
before project effectiveness, the bidding process was almost completed for contracts totaling about half
of the loan amount.
A different region selection criterion could have further accelerated project Implementation. The
main selection criterion used was that the project would benefit regions that were normally net recipients
of funds from the MOF. Exceptions were made for the Moscow and St. Petersburg regions. The merit of
the criterion is that it was equitable and, generally favored the less affluent regions. The problem is that it
tumed out that a large number of these regions had less wherewithal to provide counterpart funds. At
the same time, richer regions such as Moscow and St. Petersburg, were also deficient in providing their
share of funding. This is because another factor.affected the provision of counterpart funds: the political
will to invest in the health sector. As a result, there was a need to press regions to come with their
shares, and eventually to reallocate the shares of equipment between regions. This caused delays in
project implementation during the second part of the project. A solution to this problem would have been
to ask all regions to deposit their counterpart funds upfront in a bank account and select only those that
would have done so. However, this would have been possible only for the second round of procurement
(it was used for the third round) because of the credibility factor. At the beginning of the project, very few
- 15-



of the regions would have transferred funds to a central bank account because there was very little
confidence by the regions that the project was actually going to be implemented until the equipment was
being delivered.
By making only lower-level facilities eligible to participate, restructuring was built into the project
design. Allowing only outpatient facilities and lower-level secondary hospitals to receive equipment, the
project de facto increased the range of care at the lower level where it is more cost-effective, reduced
referrals, and improved the quality of care for patients.
Guidelines for investment can improve the quality of decision-making. Regions were left to decide
their needs out of a list of eligible equipment. Given the objective of fast disbursement, this was the
necessary approach. However, if guidelines had been provided to health facilities, better investment
decisions would have been made overall. Guidelines for investment analysis would have included
number of patients to be treated and annual recurrent cost estimates for materials and spare parts.
There is a need to balance the needs of local industry with the ultimate beneficiaries. During
project preparation, there was concern expressed by Govemment officials, local industry officials, and
media and that the open, competive tendering required by the World Bank would decimate the local
medical equipment industry. The Bank worked with the officials to show that the Russian industry would
be competing in a level playing field through the allowance of the margin of preference and through very
limited requirements on previous experience, financial liquidity and tumover. Also, licenses for supply of
medical equipment in Russia were not required as part of the bidding procedure, only prior to contract
signing. These requirements for bidding applied equally to local and intemational suppliers. As a result,
local industry won 22% of the tenders (calculated on total value) due to their competitive pricing; and
relatively small, inexperienced intemational suppliers were also able to win contracts. In speaking with
the hospital managers and physicians, however, they often requested that the equipment provided come
only from the small number of large intemationally reknowed suppliers. In part, this is due to the bias of
health professionals for certain manufacturers, but it also stems from the quality and reliability of the
equipment. Therefore, it is necessary to find the appropriate balance between support to a struggling
local industry and the need to ensure the quality of the suppliers and equipment.
Intemational Competitive Bidding and Consolidated Procurement can result in signflcant
savings. The significant majority of the medical equipment was procured following ICB procedures. As
described previously, the ICB procedure which focuses evaluation on price, the consolidation of
equipment orders, and the competitiveness of the local industry resulted in an estimated 30-40% savings
in the price of the equipment procured.
Equipment purchased could have been better packaged. In addition to packaging by types of
equipment to be supplied to one of the eight regional warehouses, lots should have been further divided
by region. Also, contracts with an individual supplier should have been subdivided by region. This would
have allowed separate custom clearance for each region and facilitated financial transactions between
the RHCF and regional administrations. It would also have shortened storage time and cost at bonded
warehouses and allowed to release goods to the regions that were current on their counterpart fund
contributions.
Requirements for installation of equipment, training and technical documentation should be
strengthened. Stronger requirements should have been introduced in bidding documents regarding
installation, training and technical documentation. There were numerous cases when bid winners did not
have the capacity to install equipment or provide training within the time period stipulated in the contract.
Additionally, it was originally intended for the contract suppliers to provide all training together with the
equipment provision. However, the logistics about how and where this training would take place was
inappropriate or insufficiently described in the bidding documents which required the extra-ordinary effort
of contracting a specific training firm. Training -- especially of the maintenance engineers -- would have
been more appropriately conducted by the Original Equipment Manufacters because of the need for
certification and training of users would be more appropriately conducted on site. Additionally, the first
- 16 -



bidding documents did not stipulate the need for necessary technical documentation which would later
facilitiate training and technical maintenance. Trying to retrieve this documentation after the bidding
procedure was completed was very difficult.
Sustainability of policy reforms requires proper institutional arrangements from the beginning.
The sustainability of the national health accounts work had little prospect because the work was being
conducted outside all formal institutional structures. This was done in an attempt to first build up support
for the work and then generate a client for its services. However, the potential clients for the accounts
were satisfied that the work was being done from them at little cost or effort to themselves. Therefore, it
would have been better to establish a proper institutional home for the work from beginning and try to
build up the capacity and ownership for that work from that base.
More public relations should have been done about the benefits of the project. Projects like the
MEP should include a public relations campaign to inform the population and physicians about the
investment and its benefits. The benefits obtained by regions as well as the federal MOH from such a
campaign would allow them to be more daring in attempting more difficult reforms in areas like financing
where benefits are often not visible in the short term. In fact, although they did not do a public relations
campaign, four regions participating in the MEP were also undertaking health sector reforms: Chuvashia,
Kaluga, Novgorod, and Samara. As confirmed by Kaluga health authorities, it is clear that equipment
financed by the MEP was an incentive for physicians to accept broader health reform, as the new
medical equipment brought an improvement in the quality of their work and was a tangible sign for them
and their patients that the quality of care was improving.
Impact evaluation should use more objective tools. The evaluation done by the sociological research
institute used physicians and patients' perceptions of changes brought in by the project such as
improvement in quality of care, increase in production of services, and reduction in travel time for
patients. These are valid results, but the analysis would be improved if actual changes in these
parameters were measured, using a sample of facilities. This would require an early design of the
evaluation methodology, sample selection, and measurement of baseline.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/inmplementing agency:
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 4033-RU
October 2001
A.    Assessment of development objectives and design
1.    Original Objectives: The purpose of the "Medical Equipment" Project stipulated in the
Staff Appraisal Report dated 16 May, 1996 and in the Loan Agreement dated 27 August, 1996 is
to initiate structural reform of the health care system in Russia.
Specifically, the Medical Equipment project was designed to:
-     increase the availability, range and quality of services provided by primary health care facilities
and raion hospitals in Participating Oblasts;
-     reorient service delivery toward more cost effective health care;
-     decentralize decision making for capital investments to the facility level; and
-     support policy development through the introduction of national health accounts.
- 17-



In order to fulfil the objectives above mentioned:
-      medical equipment, related supplies and spare parts and related training are to be provided to
selected primary (polyclinics, women's clinics and feldscher stations) and secondary (raion hospitals and
maternity homes) health care facilities in about 34 oblasts to enable such facilities to provide primary and
preventive health care and to diagnose and treat more effectively cardiovascular diseases, trauma and
cancer and to strengthen their prenatal care program;
-     development and implementation of a system of national health accounts are to be carried out
as well by means of using consultant services, study tours and corresponding computer resources.
The Project was expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
2. Reconsidered Project Data
Taking into consideration circumstances existing the following amendments and changes related to the
original Project's parameters were agreed between the World Bank and the Govemment of the Russian
Federation:
- the later date of completion of the Agreement of August 27, 1996 was established as follows:
- November 15, 1999 (June 29,1999)
- December 15, 1999 (November 19, 1999)
- June 30, 2001 (December 22, 1999);
- the Loan Amount was reduced from US$270,000,0000 to US$232,295,166 (December 22, 1999 -
February 3, 2000);
- a new Part C added: "Provision of medical equipment, pharmaceuticals, consultant services, training
and study tours that would design and pilot a system of prevention, diagnosis and treatment of
tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS as well as design a program to optimize organization and financing of
the service delivery system at the regional level" (October 21,1999 and November 22, 1999).
3.     Revised composition of Project
The actual agreed composition of the Project is:
- Medical Equipment (MEP)
- National Health Care Accounts (NHA)
- Prevention, diagnosis and treatment of tuberculosis and AIDS (TB/AIDS)
- Optimization of Health Care system at the regional level (HRIP).
4. Management of the Project
There are four health care related Project Implementation Units incorporated within the Russian Health
Care Foundation (RHCF) non-government, non-profit organization created in accordance with Resolution
No.1295 of the Govemment of the Russian Federation dated October 31, 1996.
The PIU's staff was hired in accordance with the World Bank's procedures.
All the RHCF activities were carried out under the strict support, management and control of the Ministry
of Health, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy of the Russian Federation as well and as of the
Trustee Council.
B.    Overall Status by Components
1.    "Medical Equipment" Component
-     42 regions of the Russian Federation have taken part in the Project.
-      1965 health care facilities (End-Users) of primary and secondary levels of the health care system
have received medical equipment, instruments and corresponding consumables in strict accordance with
their orders. The share of primary level end-users in the total amount of participants is 56% (1095
facilities), the rate of city and area hospitals is 28% (549 units), the number of matemity homes and
women's clinics in the entire Project is 321 (16%).
-     The total amount of the equipment purchased and delivered to the end-users under the frames
of the Project comes to USD 211,9 million. All procurement activities were carried out in full conformity
with the World Bank's Guidelines and with receiving the corresponding Bank's approval if required.
-     The respective data base has been created to control ordering, procurement and delivery of the
- 18-



equipment purchased to the end-users as well as installation of the equipment and training of personnel.
-      The necessary logistic system was elaborated and implemented providing custom clearance,
warehousing, insurance and delivery of the equipment all over the Russian Federation directly to the
participating health care facilities.
-     A system of the Project Efficiency Estimation was realised on the basis of economic and
sociological survey in a number of participating oblasts.
The system of training of the operation and maintenance personnel has been created and is carrying out
its activities including establishing of Central Support Organisation which is to carry out exploitation and
service support to the End-Users.
Achievement of Objectives
The results of the Project Effectiveness Socio-Economic Survey carried out in accordance with
requirements of the World Bank show that the objectives stipulated for the Medical Equipment Project
have been achieved:
-      due to the deliveries the number of patient referrals to other medical facilities has reduced.
Given that from 20% to 40% of all the facility funds are consumed by external diagnostics and
admissions caused by the lack of some or other type of diagnostic or treatment equipment it can be
stated with certainty that the Project bears significant effectiveness for the medical facilities;
-      the medical facility growth of performance efficiency in connection with the delivery of equipment
is essential and incomparable to the processes in the course of implementation of other similar projects
with the participation of local and foreign companies;
-     the equipment on the whole is sufficiently effective and satisfactory to the needs of the medical
personnel.
The most effective types of equipment under the delivery appeared to be the diagnostic, laboratory and
dental equipment.
The analysis of practical use of the diagnostics equipment delivered under the Project shows that it
resulted in reducing mistakes in diagnosing, possibility of earlier diagnosing of diseases and reducing
mortality rate especially caused by cardiac diseases.
The equipment delivered has lead to a certain reduction of the length of stay in hospital owing to the
reduction of the waiting period on the list for diagnostic procedures, more accurate diagnosing and
correct curative practice.
The medico-economic analysis data show that the equipment deliveries under the MEP have really
caused a significant substitution of the inpatient by the outpatient types of care as well as intensification
of the inpatient treatment process and the ensuing reduction of the length of stay, which also ensure
resource saving.
2.     National Health Care Accounts Component
Basic methodological approaches to development of national health accounts have been formed. In
accordance with the standard methodology the 1994-1999 health expenditure matrices have been built.
The information collected and processed can be used to monitor generating and using of health care
funds. Now health managers have received a complex system of national health accounts for 1994 ti
1999 - a tool for estimating the distribution and economic efficiency of health care funds.
The regional health accounts model has been constructed as well on the base of the Novgorod Region.
Methodology for development of a system of national health accounts in Russia was completed.
The information and analytical paper "National Health Accounts in Russia, 1994-1999" as well as of a
collection of articles about national health accounts in Russia and other countries have been published.
In order to assure sustainability of the results obtained a number of measures have been approved by
the Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation including the approbation of the program of transferring
the created data base to the MOH corresponding divisions and realization of special training course for
the specialists of the Ministry of Health. All the activities have been carried out.
The results obtained within the frameworks of the NHA Component formed all the necessary conditions
for creation and further development of the system of national health accounts in the Russian Federation
as well as on the regional level.
3.     Prevention, Diagnosis and Treatment of Tuberculosis and AIDS Component
- 19-



According to Russian Federation Decree "On approval of operations with projects financed by the IBRD"
of April 03, 1996, ' 395 and for coordination of activities of Federal ministries and agencies participating
in the preparation of the "Prevention, Diagnostics and Treatment of Tuberculosis and AIDS" Project, the
Interministerial Working Group was created by MOH, MOF, MOE, MOI, Federal Center of Project
Financing and Central Committee of Red Cross on September 09, 2000.
The main conditions of allocation of expected financing between the participating regions were
preliminarily defined. The eligibility criteria for selection of subjects of the Russian Federation under the
Project were approved. The list of subjects of the Russian Federation selected for high priority
implementation of the Project was preliminarily approved. The structure of the Project by the
disbursement categories was reviewed. Draft of the Project Operational Manual was approved. The
opportunity of procurement of medical equipment for three central bacteriological laboratories under the
"Medical equipment" Project was approved by the Interministerial Working Group. Draft agreement with
subjects of the Russian Federation under the TB component of the Project was prepared. The MOH in
cooperation with the WHO and World Bank reached an agreement and signed the Memorandum of
Understanding on the Course of certification of Domestic Enterprises under GMP standard.
The listed above allows to state that necessary conditions have been created for carrying out the
negotiations between the Russian Federation and the World Bank. The World Bank's invitation to
negotiation has been received.
Besides the above mentioned the drafts of operational manuals for the RHCF and HIV/AIDS project as
well as drafts of the procurement plan, TOR for technical assistance and a number of other documents
were prepared.
At the same time evaluation of prequalification of a logistics agent and technical evaluation of bids for
three TB laboratories have been carried out.
4. Optimization of Health Care System at the Regional Level Component
Preliminary budgets for the Project components were designed
The Project management organizational scheme was developed and approved by the WB and Ministry
of Health RF
Drafts of Terms of Reference on the Project components were prepared and submitted to the WB for
no-objection
The pilot region data were collected and forwarded to the WB.
To date in accordance with the Project Preparation Schedule the preparation of the Draft of Project
Implementation Plan and Operation Manual is under way.
C. Major Factors Affecting Omplementation and Outcome
Implementation of the Project was carried out within the period of the market economic and
administrative reforms in the Russian Federation, accompanied by general financial instability,
government and regional budgets deficit, legislation insufficiency that really affected the process of
implementation.
The following negative factors affected the implementation process should be pointed out:
- frequent substitutions in Govemmental and Ministerial management;
- Federal and Regional Budgets deficit;
- perpetual variations in legislative system and in custom clearance rules in particular.
Substitutions in management of supervising ministries have caused delays in approval of necessary
measures and documents (i.e. appeals to the Govemmental bodies and the World bank, the RHCF's
annual budgets and so on) while variations in custom's acts and rules resulted in substantial retardment
in custom clearance of goods and delivery of equipment and determined reducing of corresponding
warranty periods.
At the same time substantial assistance was rendered by supervising ministries and other Russian
institutions as well as by the World Bank and its Moscow Resident Mission to settle problems arising
during implementation of the MEP.
- 20 -



1.     Factors beyond the Government and Executor Control
The economic crisis of August 17, 1998 in Russia resulted in the "MENATEP" Bank bankruptcy and the
amount of USD 645.4 thousand was frozen on the account. Serious problem was caused as well by
depression in the Bank System of the Russian Federation after the financial crisis. As a result the RHCF
had to reallocate it's accounts to the banks recommended ,by the RF Ministry of Finance. Certain
geographical and climatic conditions especially in the Siberian and Far Eastem regions of Russia
obstructed considerably the Project's implementation.
2.     Factors Subject to Government Control
The main problem to emerge during realisation of the "Medical Equipment" Project was the regional
budgets deficit which practically stopped co-financing of the project by participating oblasts since the
second half of the year 1998. Because of the deficiency of co-financing funds for customs clearance and
transportation a USD 32 million amount the equipment was stored in the interregional warehouses by
July, 1999. Due to measures taken by the Govemment of the Russian Federation, the World Bank and
supervising ministries on December, 1999 the necessary funds from the federal budget were transferred
to the RHCF's account and the delivery of goods was resumed.
D. Lessons Learned
During the implementation of the Project a positive experience was gained in organising and establishing
co-operation ties and relations with the participating regions that started with collection of information
about its willingness to take part in the Project and order forms for the delivery of equipment. The basic
document stipulating reciprocal obligations and rights in the relations between the Executor and the
participating regions was an agreement concluded by the RHCF with each participating region. It is
necessary to point out that the successful completion of the Project was assured due to existence of such
agreements.
Close co-operation and co-ordination of activities with regional administrative bodies financial and health
care divisions is needed during the implementation of a Project. And under those circumstances the
special acts of the regional administrations appointing regional project coordinators are needed.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
Table 1. Initial and Final Allocations per Participating Region
-21 -



Region          Initial Quotas  Contracted Equipment Final Quotas (US$)
(US$ million)     and Services
1 Republic of Komi            9.00              6,382,497.17   6,440,800
2 Pskovskaya Oblast            4.00             2,657,953.13    2,682,233
3 Brvanskaya Oblast            2.90             2,374,332.95    2,396,022
4 Kaluzhskaya Oblast           4.00             3,462,666.24    3,519,848
5 Moscow Oblast               24.00            16,607,003.36   16,758,705
6 Orlovskaya Oblast           3.00              1,968,148.36    1,986,127
7 Smolenskaya Oblast          4.00              2,371,323.44    2,392,985
8 Tulskaya Oblast              3.10             3,121,817.82    3,150,335
9 Kirovskava Oblast           6.00              5.420.954.67    5,550,864
10 Republic of Marij Al        3.00             2,176,400.02    2,196,281
11 Republic of Mordovia        4.00             2,850,417.01    2,876,455
12 Chuvash Repuplic            4.00             3,645,885.57    3,733,308
13 Kurskaya Oblast             3.00             1,529,891.75    1,543.867
14 Tambov Oblast               5.00             3,298,674.27    3,328,807
15 Volgograd Oblast            4.10             3,694,782 90    3,728,534
16 Penzenskaya Oblast          3.50             3,488,521.06    3,520,388
17 Saratovskava Oblast         8.00             5,060.933.39    5,107,164
18 Oulyanovskaya Oblast        3.40             2,852,137.30    2,878,191
19 Republic of Dagestan        4.80             3,949,791.45    3,985,872
20 Republic of Udmurtiya       7.00             4,380,639.74    4,420,656
21 Republic of Altai           2.00             1,327,273.62    1.339.398
22 Omsk Oblast                 8.00             5,280,422.40    5,328,658
23 Republic of Khakassia       3.00             2,246,475.89    2,266,997
24 Chita Oblast                7.50             3,870,656.33    3,906,014
25 Republic of Burvatia        5.00             2,844,625.91    2.870.611
26 Khabarovskiy Krai           11.00            7,394,489.82    7,462,037
27 Amurskaya Oblast            6.00             4,347,755.13    4,387,471
28 Kamchatskaya Oblast         5.00             3,718,486.37    3,752,454
29 Kaliningradskaya Oblast     3.00             2,121,443.04    2,140,822
30 Moscow                     52.00            45,649,913.22    46,010,203
31 Saint-Petersburg            21.00            18,353,047.60   18,973,977
32 Tumen Oblast                7.00             4,152,616.68    4,190,550
33 Belaorodskava Oblast        6.00             4,289,580.54    4.328,765
34 Evreiskaya AO               2.00             1,744,950.23    1,797,680
35 Novgorod Oblast             3.00             4,208,765.77    4,691,935
36 Irkutsk Oblast              4.00             3,871,805.83    3,907,174
37 Altaiskiy Krai              4.00             2,466,172.01    2,488,700
38 Arkhangelsk Oblast          4.00             3,761,230.91    3,795,589
39 Krasnoyarskiy Krai          2.50             3,183,302.17    3,215,316
40 Ivanov Oblast                                1,225,923.44    1,251,879
41 Samara Oblast                                1,887,577.36    2.055,680
42 Republic of Tatarstan        -               2,604,370.60    3,125,000
_   Total                      265.80          211,845,656.50   215,484,353
-22-



Table 2. Project Beneficiaries by Facility Type
SITE CATEGORY                         SITE QTY
CENTRAL (City Clinic Hospital & Central Area Hospital)          1008
DENTAL (Dental Polyclinic)                                        23
EMERGENCY (Emergency station)                                     42
MATERNITY (Maternity Hospital & Children's Polyclinic)           321
ORDINARY (City Polyclinic & Area Hospital)                       549
TUBERCULOSIS (Tuberculosis Dispensary)                            22
TOTAL                                                            1965
Table 3. Medical Equipment Supply by Suppliers' Nationality and by Country of Origin
Countries involed by Suppliers' Nationality  by Countries of Origin
NN    into the Project            % of      Vu         %of
Value     total     Value      total
1  Argentina                       -      $1,268,381  0.60%
2 Austria            $4,340,272  2.05%      $503,223  0.24%
3 Check Republic         -         -      $1,211,574  0.57%
4  Denmark           $1 338 765  0.63%    $1,338,765  0.63%
5 France            $30,516,596  14.43%  $26,103,922  12.34%
6 Germany           $22,601,767 10.69%   $26,381,930 12.47%
7 Greece             $5,436,862  2.57%       -          -
8 Hungary           $10,192,703  4.82%   $10,385,326  4.91%
9 Ireland                          -        $388,247  0.18%
10 Israel             $4,878,925  2.31%    $5,264,273  2.49%
11 Italy             $12,258,895  5.80%   $12,258,895  5.80%
12 Japan             $11,792,400  5.58%   $22,650,746  10.71%
13 Korea              $6,315,820  2.99%   $17,988,771  8.51%
14 Lithuania                       -        $926,406  0.44%
15 Netherlands                     -         $99,962  0.05%
16 Russia            $12,024,245  5.69%   $47,058,569 22.25%
17 Slovakia           $9,257,680  4.38%    $6,714,739  3.17%
18 Sweden              $881,068  0.42%      $795,823  0.38%
19 Switzerland       $41,287,862  19.52%   $3,249,396  1.54%
20 United Kingdom     $1,496,866  0.71%     $228,484  0.11%
21 Ukraine         I               -        $973,463  0.46%
22 USA               $36,879,272  17.44%  $25,709,104  12.16%
Total: $211,500,000_      $211,500,000
-23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
- - #-i. - - In,dicator/Maatril.             P:roJected in last PSR ,             ActuaULatest EsUmate
Objective 1: Increase the availability, range  Projected in Last PSR is consistent with
and quality services provided by selected  ActuaULatest Estimate. Refer to next
primary and secondary care facilities in  column.
targetted regions
Equipment utilzation data collected on a                                   Partially Achieved. According to the survey,
sample basis from health facilites indicating                              ulbtasound units, X-ray equipment,
adequate ublizabon by facility-type.                                       gastroscopes and ECGs are intensively
used. However, equipment such as
colonoscopes, rectoscopes, and complex
laboratory equipment like coagulaton
analyzers are used less often. No
quantitative analysis on this question was
undertaken under the project or by the Impact
evaluation since proper conditions for the
collection of this informabon was not set up
from the start.
Reducton In referral rates to next highest                                 Achieved Interviews conducted in six
facility level in comparison to levels prior to                            regions after equipment delivery show that 62
equipment delivery and usage.                                              percent of pabents did not have to be referred
to other facilites. Dental and x-ray
equipment brought the most reduction in
referrals (for about 70 percent of pabents)
followed by endoscopic and cardiological
treatment (for about 60 percent of patients).
User (facilities, doctors) surveys collected on                            Achieved. Based on focus group results,
a sample basis from health facilities following                            Novgorod region physicians consider that the
equipment delivery and usage assessing                                     new equipment has improved the quality of
impact on quality of services.                                             matemal and child care. The Orel region
estimates that the equipment has increased
its ability to perform x-rays by 70% allowing
for earlier detection and more effective
treatment of cases.
Consumer (patient) satisfacton data                                        Achieved. Based on the sociological report
collected on a sample basis or through focus                               conducted, 60% of patients stated that the
groups following equipment delivery and                                    range of medical services had expanded and
usage.                                                                     91% were satisfied with the new range of
services. This is particularly true of the x-ray,
endoscopic and ultrasound equipment.
Objectdrve 2: Help reorient service delivery
towards more cost-effective health care
Reducton in referral rates to next highest                                 Achieved (see above). There are other
facility level in comparison to levels prior to                            efficiency gains to speak of In terms of
equipment delivery and usage                                               reduction in the cost of the transport of
patients due to the local accessibility of
services; and the reduction in the number of
repeat diagnostic exams due to Improved
accuracy.
Objecive 3 Demonstrate decentralized
decision-making for capital investments to
the health facility level
Participaton of health care faciliies in the                               Exceeded. 1965 health facilities in 42
equipment ordering process (1300 in 34                                     diferent regions developed and approved
regions)                                                                  their own individual equipment orders. These
facilibes were specifically 1008 city clinical
and central area hospitals; 23 dental
polycinics; 42 emergency stabons; 321
matemity hospitals and children's polyclinics;
549 city polyclinic and district hospitals, and
22 tuberculosis dispensaries
Objectve 4. Support Policy Development
Through the Introducion of National Health
Accounts                                            -24 -



Development of sustainable system through                                  Partially Achieved The economics and
which nabonal health accounts would be                                     planning department of the MoH was given
produced annually as measured by                                           responsibility to contnue nabonal health
reasonable operating procedures and costs                                  accounts after the completion of the project,
and plan of GoR to maintain system                                         but no sustainable system existed for that
department to continue the work previously
done by the consultants The dialogue on
this issue is continuing The GoR conbnues
to express interest in the NHA data The
issue will be taken up in the proposed Health
Reform Implementation project
Examples of national health accounts (or the                               Partially Achieved The NHA have been
development there of) impacting national                                   used in our own policy dialogue with the
health policy dialogue.                                                    Russian health system, but the informabon
has not be noticably intemalized and used by
the policy makers in their own discussions on
the health system performance and its
trends
Output Indicators:
*_i rflntorlMa                     -f-       Projectedin Iast PSR   r        _ '.  Actual/Latest Estimate  -  -
Medical Equipment
1 Volume of Medical Equipment ($270  Projected in Last PSR is consistent with  $212 million to 1965 facilities in 42 regions
million to 1300 facilities in 34 regions target) Actual/Latest Estimate. Refer to next  Nearly 52,000 equipment items and more
column.                              than 410,000 consumable items reached the
beneficiaries
2. Number of Maintenance Equipment                                         510 certificates issued allowing the
Providers and Users Trained (no initial target)                            Individuals to be licensed as a medical
equipment maintenance provider for type of
equipment included in the certificate,
2745 phycians, nurses, laboratory assistants
and other technical personnel directly trained
An unquantied number of other users ranging
in the thousands were trained direcly by the
agents of the suppliers when installing the
equipment
3. Central Support Organization established                                Central Support Organizabon etablished as a
to continue facilitating warranty issues and                               unit of the All-Russia Institute of Medical
provide long term support for spare sparts                                 Engineering (ARIME). Information on the
and consumables acquisition (not originally                                manufacturers, technical manuals, and
planned)                                                                   beneficiaries handed over to the CSO
National Health Accounts
1 Methodological Framework                                                 Methodological Framework established
consistent with OECD accounts
2 NHA Produced (benchmark 1994-19947)                                      NHA produced for 1994-1999 and publised
in available joumals and a book
3 Number of individuals trained in nabonal                                 27 individuals and officials trained through
health accounts                                                            conferences, seminars and/or study tours
Project Management
1 Project Management Unit established and                                  The Russian Health Care Foundation was
operational with sufficient resources to                                   established Inibally under the Medical
manage Project                                                             Equipment Project and continues to operate
for all Bank-supported projects in the health
sector.
Support for Preparation of TB/AIDS and
Health Reform Implementation Projects
1 Documents necessary for the further                                      Draft Project Operational Manuals prepared
agreement on project design produced                                       for both projects
- 25 -



End of project
- 26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
1. Medical Equipment                                         300.00            251.80             83.93
2. National Htealth Accounts                                    3.00              1.00            33.33
3. Project Management                                          2.00               3.20              160
4. Preparation of TB/AIDS and Health Reform                     0.00              1.10                 0
Implementation Projects
Total Baseline Cost                                          305.00            257.10
Total Project Costs                  305.00            257.10
Total Financing Required                   305.00             257.10     _
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
., z-Ex P 6 h  ie'
1. Works                           0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                          247.70            3.40           32.80           0.00          283.90
(232.20)          (2.50)         (25.70)         (0.00)         (260.40)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00            18.10           0.00           18.10
(0.00)          (0.00)          (6.60)          (0.00)          (6.60)
4. Operating Costs of the          0.00            0.00            2.00            0.00            2.00
RHCF
(0.00)          (0.00)          (2.00)          (0.00)          (2.00)
5. Refinancing of the PPh          0.00            0.00             1.00           0.00            1.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (1.00)          (0.00)          (1.00)
Total                          247.70           3.40            53.90           0.00           305.00
(232.20)          (2.50)         (35.30)          (0.00)        (270.00)
1. Figures in Parentheses are representative amounts to be financed from the Loan.
2. Other was calculated as follows:
a. It was estimated that US$47.8 million of goods would be procured using LIB, IS/NS, and DC procedures.
b. Consultant Services (US$4.6 million in addition to the US$1.5 million financed from the PPF) would be procured in
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines (1981).
c. Technical Services (US$13.5 million to be provided by the Consolidation and Forwarding Agent would be procured in
accordance with LIB procedures.
d. Administration and Operating Costs of the RHCF valued at US$ 1.5 million (in addition to the US$0.5 million financed by
the PPF) would be procured according to Bank guidelines as applicable
e A PPF of US$2 0 million would finance initial services of the Procurment Consultant (US$1.5 rmllion) procured in
accordance with the Guidelines and US$0 5 million of RHCF operating costs.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
-27 -



-                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
-,                          ; N(NB  -  - QOther
1. Works                       0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      186.11          4.71         21.03         19.78        231.63
(185.58)       (3.42)        (20.82)       (0.00)      (209.82)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00         6.81          12.70        19.51
(0.00)        (0.00)        (6.81)        (0.00)       (6.81)
4. Operating Costs of the      0.00           0.00          3.93         0.00          3.93
RHCF
(0.00)        (0.00)        (3.92)        (0.00)       (3.92)
5. Refinancing of the PPF      0.00           0.00         2.03          0.00          2.03
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.03)        (0.00)       (2.03)
Total                       186.11         4.71         33.80         32.48        257.10
(185.58)       (3.42)        (33.58)       (0.00)      (222.58)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
"Includes goods be procured through national and international shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
managing the project.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equiv alent)
1                     ~-r. .    _- r     ~    ,.~Percentage of Appraisal
Component       j     Appraisal Estimite                         m _ _al.
Bank      Govt.    CoF.      i ;, ivLk .  '!kV.   -CoF.  Bank   Govt.  CoF.
1. Medical Equipment   265.10     34.90     0.00     217.70    34.10     0.00    82.1   97.7    0.0
2. NHA                   2.90     0.10      0.00      0.90      0.10     0.00     31.0  100.0   0.0
3. Project Management    2.00     0.00      0 00      3.00      0.20     0.00    150.0   0.0    0.0
4. Preparation of TB/AIDS  0.00   0.00      0.00      1.00      0.10     0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
and HRI Projects
- 28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The Economic Rate of Retum for this project was determined, during preparation, as non-quantifiable.
Additionally, it was fully recognized that the provision of medical equipment to regional primary and
secondary care facilities was only a first step in making the Russian health care delivery system more
efficient. In parallel and over the long term, more structural reforms of the system are necessary. The
Bank's other support (lending and non-lending) to the Russian health sector has been able to take this
perspective due, in part, to the initial support generated by the Medical Equipment Project.
The Medical Equipment Project has achieved its original intention of increasing the availability, range
and quality of services in the regions of the Russian Federation. The beneficiaries are the communities
at large served by each of the 1965 facilities that were reached by the project; the thousands of patients
that would have been directly treated by the equipment which was closer to home, less painful and more
accurate in diagnosis; and the physicians within those facilities who now have more job satisfaction in
being to adequately diagnose and treat their patients.
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparration
January/1995                  3    Public Health Specialists (1)
Physician/Biomedical Engineer
(1)
Health Care Management. Sp.
(1)
March/1995                    3    Task Manager (1)
Procurement Specialist (1)
Health Care Management Sp. (I)
May/1995                      4    Task Manager (1)
Physician/Biomedical Engineer
(I)
Implementation Specialist (1)
Health Care Management Sp. (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
August/1995                   5    Task Manager (1); Medical
Equipment Advisor (I);
Health Statistician (1);
Health Economist (1);
Project Assistant (1)
Supervision
July 1996                     2    Task Manager (1); Project            S              S
Assistant (1)
April 1997                     3   Task Manager (1); Operations         S             S
Assistant (1); RM Health Projects
Coordinator (1)
June 1998                      5   Operations Analyst/TL (1);           S              S
Operations Officer/RM (1); Med.
Equip. Expert (1); NatI Hlth
Accounts Expert (1); Russia
Health PTL (1)
February 1999                 3    Operations Analyst/TL (1);           U             S
Program Team Leader (1);
Operations Officer/RM (1)
November 1999                  1   Operations Analyst/TL (1)            S             S
June 2000                      4   Operations Analyst/TL (1);           S             S
Procurement Specialist (1);
Operations Officer/RM (1); Med.
Equip. Expert (1)
December 2000                 2    Operations Analyst/TL (1);           S             S
Operations Officer/RM (1)
June 2001                     5    Operations Officer/TL (1);           S             S
Operations Officer/RM (1); Med
- 30 -



Equip Expert (1); Procurement
Expert (1); Operations Officer
(1)
ICR
3    Operations Officer/TL (1);         S              S
Operations Officer/RM (1);
Russia Health PTL
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
,__________________  No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                32.9                         90.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                     30.8                         87.1
Supervision                              130.9                        182.7
ICR                                       9.07                         17.8
Total                                   203.67                        378.4
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                       O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
L Sector Policies                      O H   OSU*M      O N  O NA
O Physical                             O H   *SUOM      O N  O NA
Li Financial                           O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
Li Institutional Development           0 H   O SU *M    0 N  0 NA
Li Environmental                       O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Oi Gender                        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Li Other (Please specify)        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
L Private sector development           0 H   O SU * M   0 N  0 NA
Li Public sector management            0 H   O SU *M    0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)               O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS       0 U   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
62 Borrower performance                             Rating
OI Preparation                                      OHS OS       0 U   O HU
Oi Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
L Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       0 U    0 HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Analysis of the Health Care Expenditures in 1994-1999 in the Russian NHA System. Health Care
Economics Journal. 2001.
Evaluation of the Medical Equipment Project Implementation Efficiency - Report on the Sociological
Survey and Medical-Economic Research. Consultant Report. May 2001.
Letter from First Deputy Minister of Health to the Country Director confinning the analysis of the
Implementation Completion Report and Borrower's Contribution. January 14, 2003.
Medical Equipment Project. Staff Appraisal Report. No. 14968-RU. May 16, 1996.
Review of the World Bank Health Projects in Europe and Central Asia Region Investments in Medical
Equipment and Medical Technology. Consultant Report. 2002.
Training and Maintenance Consultancy -- Final Report. October 2001.
- 34 -






R@poR No.:         25345
Type:    icR



