Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4033 RU
                              Loan Agreement
                       (Medical Equipment Project)
                                 between
                           RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                   and
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated August 27, 1996
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4033 RU
                            LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 27, 1996, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May
30, 1995, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
Page  2
     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement; and
     (b)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to two exchanges
of letters dated August 2, 1995 and September 6, 1995 and dated March
4, 1996 and April 2, 1996 between the Borrower and the Bank;
     (c)  "MOHMI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and Medical
Industry;
     (d)  "PPIU" means the Project Preparation and Implementation Unit,
established and operating within the Borrower's Ministry of Finance
pursuant to a Regulation signed by the Deputy Minister of Finance, the
Deputy Minister of Economy and the Deputy Minister of Health and Medical
Industry, dated March 15, 1996;
     (e)  "Working Group" means the Interministerial Working Group for
the Establishment of the National Health Accounts System, established
pursuant to the Order signed by the First Deputy Prime Minister, dated
March 23, 1996 and headed by MOHMI;
     (f)  "Participating Oblast" means any oblast of the Borrower in
whose territory health facilities are located which are included, under
Part A of the Project; and
     (g)  "Participating Oblast Commitment" means the letter of commit-
ment received by the Borrower, from each Participating Oblast according
to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement an amount
equal to two hundred seventy million dollars ($270,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total
Spread.
Page  3
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
          (ii) "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
         (iii) "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
               London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
               Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period
               (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for
               value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
               preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum.
          (iv) "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
               plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
               Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered
               rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
               in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
               portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single
               currency loans or portions thereof made by it that
               include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank
               and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination
thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05,
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan, the Bank may modify the basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less
than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the
Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto,
in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15
and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project through the
PPIU and Part B, under the overall coordination of the PPIU, through
the Working Group with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and public health practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause the PPIU to carry out Part A of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  4
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                              ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
               Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expendi-
               tures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
Page  5
                                  ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that a Participating
Oblast has failed to comply with the provisions of the respective
Participating Oblast Commitment.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that  the event
specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower.
                               ARTICLE VI
                               Termination
     Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VII
                   Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or the Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Ilyinka Street 9
          103097 Moscow
          Russian Federation
                                   Telex:
                                   112008
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.    248423 (RCA),
                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                    82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Page  6
               By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov
                                               Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                                 Europe and Central Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                    Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated          % of
                               (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)  Medical                     254,000,000      100% of foreign
     equipment under                              expenditures,
     Part A of the                                100% of local
     Project and                                  expenditures
     computer equipment                           (ex-factory
     under Part B                                 cost) and 70%
     of the Project                               local expenditures
                                                  for other items
                                                  procured locally
(2)  Consolidation                 2,000,000      100% of foreign
     and forwarding                               expenditures
     services
 (3) Consultants'                  6,000,000      100%
     services and
     training,
     including
     fellowships
     and study
     tours
(4)  Operating cost                1,000,000      100%
     of the PPIU
 (5) Refunding of                  2,000,000      Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                             suant to Section
     tion Advance                                 2.02 (c) of this
                                                  Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                   5,000,000
                                 ___________
          TOTAL                  270,000,000
                                 ===========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
Page  7
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the term "medical equipment" means medical equipment, including
spare parts and supplies financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
being subject to the applicable certification requirements of the
institutes authorized for certification purposes;
     (d)  the term "operating cost of the PPIU" means expenditures on
account of the Project of the PPIU for salaries, office accommodations,
supplies and minor equipment, utilities, staff travel, and training; and
     (e)  the term "consolidation and forwarding services" means services
pertaining to the provision of warehouse space, receipt and inspection of
goods, insurance in the Borrower's territories and transport to health
facilities included in the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require, under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify to the Borrower, withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) under
Category (1) under contracts for goods costing less than $300,000
equivalent; (ii) under Category (3) under contracts for technical services
and the employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000
equivalent; (iii) under Category (3) under contracts for the employment
of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (iv)
for operating cost of the PPIU under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase the availability
and range of services provided by primary and secondary health facilities
in Participating Oblasts; and (ii) improve the analytical framework of
the health sector through the establishment of national health accounts.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Provision of medical equipment, related supplies, and spare parts
and related training to selected primary (polyclinics, women's clinics
and feldsher stations) and secondary (raion hospitals and maternity homes)
health care facilities in about 34 oblasts to enable such facilities to
provide primary and preventive health care and to diagnose and treat more
effectively cardiovascular disease, trauma and cancer and to strengthen
their prenatal care program.
Part B:
     Development and implementation of a system of national health accounts
and provision of consultants services, study tours, computer equipment and
software therefor.
                                   * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in Dollars)*
Page  8
On each April 15 and October 15
     beginning October 15, 2001
     through April 15, 2013                 11,250,000
___________________
*    The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be
     repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
     Conditions.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                     Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Technical Services
Part A:     General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B:
     (a)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower.
     (b)  Notification and Advertising
     The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of
the Guidelines.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
Page  9
     Specialized equipment, including endoscopic and ultrasonic medical
equipment up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $19,400,000 equivalent,
and consolidation and forwarding services, up to an aggregate amount of
$13,500,000 equivalent, which the Bank agrees can only be obtained from a
limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Competitive Bidding
     Sets of specialized medical instruments estimated to cost less than
$300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$3,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.   International and National Shopping
     (a)  Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,300,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000, may be
procured under contract awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
4.   Direct Contracting
      Goods which are of a proprietary nature and must be procured from a
particular supplier may, with the Bank's prior agreement, up to an
aggregate amount of $7,100,000, be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.   Procurement from UN Agencies
     Medical equipment and supplies may be procured from UNICEF or other
UN Agencies in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the
Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or
to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan
as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract processed in accordance with Parts B,
C.1, C.4 and C.5 of this Schedule and the first two contracts processed in
accordance with Parts C.2 and C.3 (a) of this Schedule, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Page  10
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply
to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection
of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.   During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain the
PPIU with adequate authority to carry out its responsibilities under the
Project; and (ii) employ, at all times, a director as head of the PPIU with
adequate qualifications and experience assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
2.   The PPIU shall, in consultation with MOHMI and each Participating
Oblast, establish the list of medical equipment and other goods to be
provided under Part A of the Project, specify the training to be provided
in relation to such equipment, and promptly inform the Bank prior to the
initiation of procurement actions in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 of this Agreement in respect of any such goods or initiation
of any such training.
3.   The PPIU shall initiate procurement actions in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 of this Agreement in respect of health facilities
in any Participating Oblast, only if the Borrower has received a letter
of commitment (the Participating Oblast Commitment) from the respective
Participating Oblast which shall be acceptable to the Bank and include the
undertakings of the respective Participating Oblast to take all necessary
measures to:
     (a)  assure that the medical equipment and supplies provided under
the Project shall be installed at the intended facilities and be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project;
     (b)  ensure participation of the beneficiary health facilities in
ordering equipment;
     (c)  provide additional clinical training for staff using the equip-
ment provided under the Project, where needed;
     (d)  provide adequate resources for supplies needed to fully utilize
the equipment provided under the Project after the initial stock has been
consumed;
     (e)  contribute at least 10 percent of the Project costs applicable
to the activities carried out in the respective Participating Oblast in
counterpart funds and finance all applicable customs duties and taxes;
     (f)  appoint an oblast-level project coordinator to liaise with the
PPIU; and
     (g)  submit periodic reports as requested by the PPIU on the status
of project implementation and utilization of equipment.
Page  11
4.   The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to assure that the
institutes authorized for the certification of medical equipment shall
review the requests from suppliers for certification of medical equipment
and supplies financed out of the proceeds of the Loan on a priority basis
and in conformity with a time frame agreed upon by the Borrower and the
Bank.
                                  SCHEDULE 6
                                Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1.5 million to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent of $2.5 million.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
               Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
               payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
               shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
               Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
               as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
               been shown by said documents and other evidence to have
               been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
               expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
               Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
               shall have been justified by said documents and other
               evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment
Page  12
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement,
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the
Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
