Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8114
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1774-5 KO)
OCTOBER 25, 1989
Population and Human Resources Operations Unit
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
Tlbis docoment has a restricted dsbirbutlon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
ther officid dutdes Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ACRONYMS USED IN THE REPORT
CMCHC -    Comprehensive Maternal and Child Health Center
EPB   -    Economic Planning Board
FP    -    Family Planning
GROK  -    Government of the Republic of Korea
IEC   -     Information, Education and Communications
KAVS  -    Korean Association for Voluntary Sterilization
KHDI  -    Korean Health Development Institute
KIFP  -    Korean Institute for Family Planning
KIPH  -    Korean Institute for Population and Health
NCH   -    Naternal and Child Health
MOHSA -    Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
NIH   -    National Institute of Health
OSROD -    Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
PCR   -    Project Completion Report
PPFK  -    Planned Parenthood Federation of Korea
TB    -    Tuberculosis
COUNmRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (abreviation)                    WON (U)
Year:
Appraisal Year Average    1979                 Exchange Rate: US$1-W 485
Intervening Years Average 1980-86                             US$1-W 765
Completion Year           1987                                US$1-V 823
KOREA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



11OFFICA^L UEONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washigton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
o d. ai Otw.Cmnai
October 25, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Korea
First Population Pro1ect lLoan 1774-5 KO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Korea - First Population Project (Loan 1774-5 KO)"
prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attacbment
This dcumenthas d au d   ibuton and may be used by recipients only n the pWefoannce 1
of thek oflk duti. Its contents may no otherwie be diclosed without Word Bank autborhaon



FOR OmCAuL USE ONLY
K-ORE
POPUU.TION PROJECT (Loan 1774-5 XO)
PROJECT CCMLETION REPORT
TABLE OE CONTENTS
Page So.
Preface          .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  i
Basic Data Sheet .ii
Evaluation Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                          tV
1.  INTRODUCTION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          1
Sectoral Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          1
Institutional Responsibilities   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         2
2.  PROJECT FORMULATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           3
Project Identification and Preparation   . . . . . . . . . .                         3
Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         5
Project Components   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         5
Organizational Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         6
3.  IMPLEmENTATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            6
Effectiveness and Start-up.                                                          6
Revisions to the Project.                                                            8
Progress of Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        10
Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         13
Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        14
Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         14
Compliance with Loan Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        14
Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         15
4.  PROJECT AND PROGRAM IMPACT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         15
Project Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         15
Policy Changes .17
National Family Planning Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        18
Progress of Health Status . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
5. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE .18
Borrower's Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        18
Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        19
The Government/Bank Working Relationship   . . . . . . . . .                        19
6.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          20
Conclusions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         20
Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABIE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES                                                                Poe no.
Annex 1  Progress of Project Construction Components                      23
Annex 2  List of Facilities Constructed Under the Project                 24
Government MCH Centers                                        24
PPFK MCH/FP Centers and Studio                                25
CMCH Center                                                   25
RAVS Centers                                                  25
Annex 3  Target vs Accomplishment in Annual Number of Trainees of         26-
Multipurpose Health Worker Tratinng
Annex 4  Project Costs:                                                   27
Original Project by Category                                  27
Original Project by Program                                   28
CNCHC Component by Category                                   29
CMCHC Component by Program-                                   30
Annex 5  Disbursements                                                    32
Annex 6  Compliance with Loan Conditions                                  33
Annex 7  Comparison of Stated Project Objectives and Actual Outcomes   36
Annex 8  Operating Outcome MCH Centers                                    37
Annex 9  Production of IEC Materials                                      38
Operational Outcome of Mobile Vans                               39
Annex 10 International Training Programs                                  40
Annex 11 Vital Statistics and Population Composition 1960-85              41
Annex 12 Contraceptive Services through Government Supported Programs   42
Attachment I  Comments from the Borrower                                   43
MAP: IBRD 21478



KOREA
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for a Population Project
in Korea for Which Loan 1774-5 KO was approved on December 12, 1979 in the
amount of US$30 million. The loan was closed on December 31, 1987, 3 112
years behind schedule. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement
was on July 7, 1988.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resou rces(
Operations Unit, Country Department II of the Asia Regional Office. \,his
report is based on the borrower's project completion report, doc met
contained in the project files and interviews vith the Bank staff involved
in implementation.
The PCR wss read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and they are attached
to the report (Attacbment 1).
l



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR BASIC DATA SHEET
KOREA: POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KO)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Appraisal      Actual or
-          expectation   current estimate
Total Project Cost (USS million)                     91.5             68.2
Underrun (%)                                                        25.0
Loan/Credit Amount (US$ million)                     30.0             30.0
Disbursed                                                           30.0
Cancelled
Repaid to April 1, 1989                                             11.6
Outstanding April 1, 1989                                           18.4
Date physical components completed                 06/30/84         12/31/87 1/
Proportion completed by above time (%)
Overrun or (Underrun)
Original project                                                    (27) 2/
Additional component                                                100
Economic Rate of Return                               N/A              N/A
Financial Performance                                 N/A              N/A
Institutional Performance                             Good             Good
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original              Actual or
tPlan    Revised   est, agla
First mention in files or timetable                                      1/20/76
Government application                                                   9/21/77
Negotiations                                                            10/31/79
Board approval                                                          12/11/79
Loan Agreement Date                                                    12/27/79
Effectiveness Date                                                       3/21/80
Closing Date                                    6/30/84  12/31/85      12/31/87
Borrower                                Government of the Republic of Korea
Executing Agencies                      Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
Planned Parenthood Federation of Korea
Korean Institute for Population and
Health
National Institute of Health
Fiscal Year of Borrower                 January 1 - December 31
Follow-on Project Name                  Nil
1/  The original closing date was revised to December 31, 1985, and then to
December 31, 1987, to allow completion of a major component added during
project implementation.
2/ Some components scaled down due to population changes in project aras.



-Its-
Nonth/       No. of       No. of         Staff        Date of
Task               Year         Weeks        Persons        Weeks        Report
Reconnaissance      5/76            1            2              2          6/9j76
Identification      9/76            2            2              4        10/18/76
Identification      4/76         1/3             2              4         5/16/76
Preparation        11/77            2            4              8         1/12/78
Preparation         8/78            4            1              4         9/19/78
Preparation         1/79            2            4              8         3/27/78
Appraisal           4/79            4             4            16          6/4/79
Supervision 1       2/80            3            4             12         3/11/80
Supervision 2      10/80            3            4             12         11/5/80
Supervision 3       4/81            2            2              4          6/1/81
Supervision 4       9/81            2            2              4        10/15/81
Supervision 5       4/82            3            2              6         6/23/81
Supervision 6      12/82            2            2              4         1/27/83
Supervision 7       5/83            2            3              6         7/14/83
Supervision 8      11/83            2            2              4        12/14/83
Supervision 9       5/84            2            2              4          6/4/84
Supervision 10      3/85            2            3              6          5/3/85
Re-appraisal        8/85            3            4             12         9/17/85
Supervision 11      4/86            2            2              4         5/13/86
Supervision 12    11/86             3            2                        7/12/86
Supervision 13      5/87            2            2              4          7/7/87
Supervision 14    12/87             2            2              4         1/22/88
flha1&Kauasnts 1J
(US$ milli)
Appralsal  Appraisal        Cumulative Actual as 6 of
Calenda  Year E Zsti:auZ  cumulaive  Aial    AcSlal  Ciu1t-v. Aa?
1980        0.3        0.3      0         0         0
1981        7.9        8.2      0         0         0
1982       19.7       27.9    1.47      1.47        5.3
1983        2.1       30.0    4.15      5.62       18.7
1984                          6.70     12.32
1985                            0      12.32
1986                          6.47     18.79
1987                          8.32     27.11
1986                          2.89     30.00
/ See notes to Annex 5
fL        U  1          Zi    go  a    aU  In  ft   I    a   -a   a   T.iD
P,zpra ;"l  8.S  22.0 9.8  42.S                                            n.7
App, ili                52.1  2D.6                                        19.7
Negotitio                    19.9                                         19.9
S.p4rVi-oi                   90.1  J0.2  19.9  21.2  19.4 1S.6  49.8  14.8  6.7 166.?
Other                                                  9.0                 2.0
ToTAL     8.0  90. 19.6  90.3  t0.8  86.1  10.9 ft.3  10.4  16.6  40.6  14.6  0.7 WS.0



KOREA
FXRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMNARY
ObJectlven
i.          In the mid-1970s, the Government of the Republic of Korea faced the
twin concerns of slowing its rapid population growth and improving the health
status of its population, particularly those in the underserved rural areas.
While a very successful family planning program had been in existence since 1962,
the pace of the program had slowed by 1976, and demographic trends like the rapid
increase in the proportion of women of reproductive age meant that even if a net
reproduction rate equal to one could be achieved in the near future, the
country's population would more than double by the middle of the next centur,.
This was disturbing for a country with limited natural resources. The hepith
of the population was also at issue. Althou'gh mortality levels bad dropped and
the incidence of some major diseases had declined, morbidity due to
gastroenteritis and respiratory diseases continued to be a serious problem.
Deficiencies in maternal and child health were particularly striking. In 1975,
the infant and maternal mortality rates were still high, at 38 per thousand live
births and 6 per 10,000 births, respectively. Prenatal and postnatal services
were often unavailable, and immunization levels were low.  The Government's
Fourth Five-year Development Plan (1977-81) recognized and began to address these
concerns, and Banssistance was requested for a project to support the Plan's
population and health programs.
ii.         After three Yats of preparation, a population project was developed
to address the levelling off of family planning performance and to improve the
health status of mothers and children, eapecially in rural areas. The project
was designed to: (a) expand and strengthen the national health and family
planning (FP) delivery system by building and equipping 91 rural Maternal and
Child Health (MCH) Centers and 11 urban Planned Parenthood of Korea (PPFK)
Centers; (b) train 8,000 nurses and field workers and integrate the rural health
and family planning services provided by them; (c) expand the country's system
of information, education and communications (IEC) for population and health by
financing new video production facilities, mobile vans and production costs; and
(d) support operational research activities linked to MCH operations.  The
project loan was approved on Dece-ber 12, 1979.
1gplementation Experience
iii.        Project implementation waJ initially delayed for two years by a lack
of counterpart budgetary funds.   However, once funds became available, the
project was implemented with some speed and was substantially completed in the
subsequent three and one half years, with the closing date extended by 18 months,
from June 30, 1984 to December 31, 1985.  The closing date was then further
extended by two years to implement an additional component, using significant
loan savings that resulted from a major devaluation of the won, the reduction
of some project components in the face of changing demand patterns, and lower-
than-expected construction costs due to keen contractor competition during the
recessionary period. These funds were used to create the second tier of 1(CH care



by supporting development of 11 comprehensive Maternal and Child Health Centers
(CMCHC) and related clinical and community health research. The higher-level
medical facilities were to serve as regional referral centers for more
complicated cases and would train staff of the primary MCH clinics, provide them
with specialist advice and carry out research. Implementation progressed rapidly
and the reprogrammed project was completed as envisioned.
iv.         The project was managed by the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
(MOHSA) through its Family Health Division.   The ocher principal agencies
involved were PPFK for its 11 u-.ban MCH centers, mobile units and IEC program,
the National Institute of Health (NIH) for staff training, and the Korean
Institute for Population and Health (KIPH) for studies and program monitoring.
The CMCHCs were attached to private nonprofit hospitals since no suitable public
sector facilities existed. Interagency cooperation was good thoughout the life
of the project.
v.          Even w!th the addition of another major component, the project had
a total cost of only US$68.2 million, substantially less than the appraisal
estimate of US$91.5 million. The Bank loan of US$30 million covered the total
foreign exchange cost of the project while the Government financed the remaining
US$38.2  million.    Project funds were  on-lent  to  the private hospitals
implementing the CMCHC component on the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan.
Results
vi.         The project has yielded significant benefits. It strengthened the
country's health delivery system by substantially expanding the provision of
MCH services and, through institutional reform and staff training, improved the
quality of the MCH/FP services provided. The full impact of this service
expansion will -not be known for some time, but data from the clinics indicate
improved services and usage. The family planning program benefitted from the
expanded IEC program that developed approaches and strategies for the younger
and more sophisticated clientele.   The IEC activities contributed to the
improvement of family planning program performance and the achievement of a
replacement fertility level by 1984, more than eight years earlier than
originally predicted.
vii.        The CMCHC component strengthened the creation of a three-tier
regional health care system that could fit into and provide services under the
universal health insurance that is expected to be extended nationwide in 1989.
This three-tier system is expected to help improve patient referral and upgrade
the supervision and training of health workers by establishing a viable working
relationship between the Government's primary care system and the private sec-cor
secondary and tertiary health care system.
Sustainability
Most components of this project are likely to be fully sustainable.
The Government has been and remains fully comnitted to the goals of this
project.    The maternal  and  child  health  clinics  and  other  facilities
established under the project are fully in use and adequately funded. The
Government has adopted a program of national health insurance that would
further increase the need for these clinics as service centers.



-vi-
Findiags and Lessons Learned
viii.       The most important lesson learned under the project is that changes
in the population and health sectors can occur rapidly and call for flexibility
in the implementation of population programs and projects. When the time between
project conception and loan closing is a decade or more, original project
assumptions may become outdated mid-way in the life of the project, necessitating
changes in the project design. In the case of this project, even as the project
was being developed, changes were occurring in the country's health care needs
and institutional roles: the public sector provision of basic primary care and
implementation of preventive measures were giving way to the provision of
sophisticated primary and secondary care, primarily by the private sector.
National health care planning was also developing an overall nationwide health
care system that would establish geographic service catchment areas and link
public and private sector services at all three levels of health care.  In
recognition of the changing sectoral environment, both the Government and the
Bank showed flexibility in their approaches to the Population Project. Time has
shown the wisdom of the derision to reprogram the project by adding a component
which supported the original project objective of improving MCH care, but did
so by improving the secondary care facilities of private hospitals, which had
taken the lead role in the provision of health care to the population. The
dynamic nature of health and population programs, especially in the Asia Region,
will continue to require flexible responses from tlhe Bank in regard to project
content. The Korean experience provides useful guidelines for this.
ix.         Other lessons learned include:
(a)   the importance of reaching agreement with the borrower on project
strategy and content as soon as possible once the decision to
implement a project is made. The failure to reach such agreement
delayed preparation of the Population Project;
(b)   the need to avoid overdesign and excessive detail in project
preparation. Some components of the Population Project were dropped
after reconsideration during the first year of implementation. These
activities need not have been included in the first place -- they
were desirable but not critical;
(c)   project decisions should be made rapidly.  Internal bureaucratic
considerations, first within the Government and later in the Bank,
delayed concurrence on the addition of the CMCHC component for almost
two years. The project could have closed a year earlier had the
institutional debate not taken place and the Bank responded to the
Government's proposal without undue delay; and
(d)   the inclusion of non-governmental agencies (in this case, PPFK) and
the private health sector in the project was beneficial, since it
permitted not only significant expansion of service availability
beyond the government health sector but also the testing of new
methods of expanding and upgrading services.



XOREA
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
Sectoral Background
1.1         By the mid-1970s, the Republic of Korea had made significant progress
in moderating the growth of its population.   The National Family Planning
Program, initiated in 1962, was from the beginning at the cutting edge of change,
a 'model" program notable for its innovations and varied, well-coordinated
strategies. Partly as a result of the program, the country's crude birth rate
declined from 44 per thousand population in 1960 to 28 per thousand in 1976, the
total fertility rate dropped from 6.3 childrer per woman in 1960 to 3.2 children
in 1976, contraceptive use increased from 6% of married women in 1962 to about
44% in 1976, and the population growth rate declined from 3.0% in 1960 to 1.7%
in 1979.
1.2         In 1976, however, as program performance was being reviewed and
future directions considered for the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1977-81), several
concerns emerged. First, with the exception of Bangladesh and a few city-states,
Korea was the most densely populated country in the world, with about 1,650
persons per sq km of agricultural land. Furthermore, if its population continued
to grow at 1.7% a year, it would increase to about 53 million by the year 2000
du*4' to changing demographic trends such as a rapid increase in the proportion
of women of reprodactive age and little scope for further raising the mean age
of marriage. Even assuming that a net reproduction rate equal to one could be
achieved by 1985, Korea's population would more than double by the middle of the
next century. This was particularly disturbing for a country with limited natural
resources. Second, only about 43% of women who desired no more children
practiced contraception, indicating significant unmet demand for family planning
services. Third, earlier expectations that emigration would play a major role
in curbing population growth were found to be wrong, as the actual effect was
marginal -- a mere 0.1% of growth.
1.3         Overall, it was concluded that che population program, like many
others in Asia at this time, had reached a plateau in acceptance, necessitating
a more intensive effort and new strategies under a second-stage program-which
would be needed to attract new acceptors. Family planning services had to be
made more effective and accessible, with more emphasis placed on integrating
services more closely with other social programs and on incentives favoring
smaller families.   Improved access to services meant a greater number of
facilities, better training of personnel, better distribution of time among
fieldworkers so that they could reach more people, fewer constraints to clinic
visits, establishment of priorities among population target groups to be visited
by workers, and better information, education and commuications (IEC) activities
to increase knowledge about facilities and to motivate clients to visit them.
The Population Project therefore assisted the Government to reorient, its
population program in this way.



-2-
1A 4Most family planning fieldvorkers at this time were  nurse-aids
expected only to do some motivational work, to supply clients with
contraceptives, and to refer clients to health centers when needed. They were
not qualified to provide elementary health services or to deal with the side
effects of contraceptive usage. Each worker covered a population of about 10,000
to 13,000 people dispersed in rural areas and consequently spent much of his/her
working time in travel. Under the target system being used, the workers confined
their visits to people likely to accept family planning services -- those with
many children and past users -- and paid little attention to young married
couples with few or no children, who offered the greatest potential for delaying
and averting births. Furthermore, the high turnover rate of workers, at about
30%, due to poor pay and low prestige, wasted training and lowered worker
effectiveness. To help raise worker effectiveness, the project's approach of
the new population program emphasized the full integration of health and family
planning services, with the existing unipurpose family planning workers retrained
as multipurpose health workers, to provide more services over an area only one
third the size then served.
1.5           In so doing, the refocused program was also able to address several
major health needs. Although mortality had been reduced in Korea, morbidity due
largely to gastroenteritis and respiratory diseases continued to be a serious
problem, particularly in rural areas where access to potable water and to health
facilities was far below the levels in urban areas. Deficiencies in maternal
and child health services were especially striking.  In 1975, the infant and
maternal mortality rates were still high, at 38 per thousand live births and 6
per 10,000 births, respectively. Use of prenatal and postnatal services by the
population at risk was low, as were immunization levels for tuberculosis, measles
and polio. Whlle a maternal and child health (MCR) program had been establis;hed,
it was focused on family planning. Only eight MCH centers existed nationwide t^%
provide the full range of NCH services, including ante- and post-natal services
for mothers, health care for infants, and assistance with delivery.  Health
centers focussed on communicable disease control, food hygiene and sanitation,
and health facilities operated by provincial governments suffered from inadequate
budgets and poorly trained staff.
1.6         The Fourth Five-Year Development Plan recognized these problems and
set the following objectives: (a) establishment of a health care delivery system
through the development and expansion of low-cost health services for the urban
poor and rural residents, and a more even geographical distribution of medical
resources; (b) intensified public health measures, particularly in preventive
medicine including disease control and MCH; and (c) better sanitation and water
supply in rural areas and minimized industrial pollution. The refocused family
planning program, supported by the Population Project, was aimed at several of
these objectives through its emphasis on expansion of NCH services and its
concentration on rural areas.
Institutional Resnonsibilities
1.7        A number of agencies were involved at this time in family planning
(FP) activities in Korea. The Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MOHSA),
through its Bureau of Maternal and Child Health, was the major agency in charge
of implementing the family planning program.   The program used some 2,400
designated service points located in government health centers, designated



- 3 -
hospitals and clinics, and physicians' offices. Client education and recruitment
were done by family planning workers attached to health centers and subcenters.
The Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA), through the provincial and local
governments, was responsible for financing and operating a network of provincial
and municipal hospitals as well as the health centers and subcenters providing
family planning services. The Korean Institute for Family Planning (KIFP) was
a semi-autonomous organization supervised by MOHSA and responsible for all
training in family planning, technical guidance in family planning for health
centers and subcenters, and research and evaluation in the fields of family
planning and demography. The Government's efforts were reinforced by the Planned
Parenthood Federation of Korea (PPFK), a voluntary non-profit organization which
worked with the Government by providing family planning services in urban areas
through 15 clin:rcs as well as providing all IEC support for the family planning
program. Finally, the New Village Movement (Saemaul Undong), which was initiated
in 1970 to promote self-improvement among the rural population, supported the
diffusion of health and family planning information through women's clubs as part
of its efforts to improve the status of women.
2. PROJECT FORMULATION
Project Identification and Preparation
2.1         The Bank's dialogue with the Government on the population and health
sectors began during preparation of its 1976 SRecial Report on Human Resource
Develonment in Korea which included chapters on both sectors. At that time, the
Government was already aware of the implications of not achieving lower rates
of population growth as well as the need for improved health care, particularly
for mothers and children. Discussions with a Bank identification mission in
September 1976 therefore led to agreement on a project to address inter-related
health and population concerns using an integrated approach aimed at (a)
strengthening family planning program efforts by providing expanded high quality
services to the urban and rural poor; and (b) reducing high infant, child and
maternal mortality levels through expanded and improved MCH services. The two
strategies reinforced each other and led to the development of an integrated
maternal and child health/family planning project which was consistent with
government objectives.
2.2         The process of project preparation took much longer than expected.
Although a Bank preparation mission visited Korea in November 1977, project
preparation did not move ahead in earnest until January 1979, so that appraisal
could take place in April 1979. This extended preparation period was caused by
the inclusion in the project of several innovative features which required longer
than usual discussion both within the Government and the Bank before a consensus
could be reached on them. The most contentious issue for the Government was the
proposed integration of family planning and health services under the project.
At this time, the conventional approach in Korea was for narrowly focussed family
planning services; health expenditures were regarded as 'consumption and welfare"
and were given low priority over direct economic investments. The Government's
agreement to include major investments in primary health care in the project was
therefore a significant policy change and entailed lengthy debate. Discussions
in the course of project preparation therefore centered on this and the following
other issues:



- 4 -
(a)   the design of a family planning program at the second stage (rather
than the inception) of program implementation when demographics were
changing;
(b)   the integration of significant maternal and child health activities
with family planning services, based on the principle that improved
maternal health and infant welfare would enhance fertility decline
and strengthen contraceptive use;
(c)   the approach to be taken in supporting a non-government organization
(PPFK) under the project and the provision of physical facilities;
(d)   the design of complex project components  and introduction of
innovative features such as the 'at risk' approach to MCH care,
which gives special attention to those particularly in need within
a framework of improved health care for all;
(e)   redevelopment of project proposals midway through project preparation
to conform better to project objectives and to keep within the loan
ceiling approved by the National Assembly; and
(f)   government arrangements to on-lend loan funds to private health
facilities to carry out project activities.
2.3         Project preparation was coordinated by the Bureau of Maternal and
Child Health in MOHSA, and by the Social Sector Division in the Economic Planning
Board (EPB). A task force consisting of representatives of MOHSA, EPB, PPFK and
KIFP was established for project preparation and the process moved ahead rapidly
after a new Bureau Director took office in 1978. MOHA was also involved in
preparation through the provincial governments which helped plan the integrated
health activities.
2.4         The project was designed to assist Korea in its efforts to reduce
the rate of growth of population and, at the same time, to improve family health,
reduce maternal mortality, and reduce infant and child mortality and morbidity.
It was based on the following premises: that a reduction of infant mortality
would reduce fertility; that there were advantages in delivering family planning
services in conjunction with health services, especially MCH services; and that
there is a higher rate of contraceptive practice among women who receive
instruction in nutrition and family planning in the day care centers which their
children attend. Essential to the project design was the outreach of service
delivery into the community, utilizing the "at risk" approach. Project design
was also aimed at increasing both the supply of and the demand for family
planning services and integrating these services with other social services.
2.5         Project design and preparation were innovative and consistent with
emerging sector knowledge and developing strategies for second-stage family
planning programs.   The decision to undertake a major expansion of health
facilities to provide better access to services for the rural population and
for greater equity was appropriate. While the premise shaping project design
-- that improved maternal health and infant welfare would enhance fertility



- 5 -
decline and strengthen contraceptive practice -- was a relatively new idea at
the time, its use in the project was justified by subsequent experience.
Proiect Obiectives
2.6         The project was intended to assist the Government to reach its
objective of reducing the birth rate from 24.3 in 1976 to 23.9 by 1981 and 22.9
by 1986 by increasing the number of contraceptive users from 2.0 million in 1976
to 3.1 million in 1981 and 3.9 million in 1986.  The project also aimed at
increasing the number of births attended by medical personnel from 40% in 1978
to 85% in 1982 and 100% in 1986; reducing maternal mortality from 6.3 per 10,000
births in 1975 to 3.0 in 1986; and reducing infant mortality from 38 deaths per
1,000 live births in 1976 to 14 in 1986. These objectives were thought to be
difficult but not impossible to reach given the stror.g commitment of the
Government to its health and population objectives.
Project Components
2.7         The project comprised the following components:
(a)   Expansion of the Health and Family Planning Delivery System through:
the construction, furnishing and equipping of 91 MCH/FP centers, each
attached to an existing health center, and upgrading those health
centers; the addition of day care centers to 68 of the centers; the
construction and equipping of 11 MCH/FP clinics to replace premises
now rented by PPFK; the provision of 13 mobile family planning units
to provide services in remote areas; and the provision of 68 four-
wheel drive vehicles to transport patients to and from MCH/FP
centers;
(b)   Training  of Health  and Family Planning  Staff,  including  the
construction of additional training facilities and a dormitory at
KIFP; provision of facilities and equipment for the production of
FP and midwifery training materials; retraining about 4,000 existing
TB, MCH, and family planning fieldworkers as well as 4,000 new
recruits as multipurpose workers, also able to perform midwifery;
technical and supervisory training for provincial FP supervisors,
senior health center staff and other clinic staff; training in family
planning education for social workers and civic organization
representatives; and training of about 400 hospital and health center
staff in IEC, including use and maintenance of equipment provided
by the project;
(c)   Expansion of IEC Activities in Health and Family Planning through
provision of 158 video tape players for hospitals, the PPFK clinics
and the new NCH/FP centers as well as 202 film/slide projectors and
cassette tape recorders/players for the health centers; provision
of IEC equipment and materials for the 13 mobile family planning
units as well as pamphlets to be distributed by fieldworkers and
clinics; expansion of PPFK's capacity to make IEC materials,
including construction and equipping of a film and video production
studio as well as the cost of materials and incremental staff; and



a one-month study tour plus salary support during the project period
for the IEC Coordinator at MOHSA who would help develop mass media
programs and advertisements;
(d)   Strengthening and Exnanding Research and Evaluation by establishing
a reporting system for the new MCH centers; evaluation of the
midwifery training program for fieldworkers; and evaluation of MCH/FP
activities carried out under the project; and
(e)   Strengthened Proiect Imolementation Capacity by providing MOHSA with
additional staff, equipment, vehicles and per diem to plan, execute
and supervise the project.
Organizational Arrangements
2.8         The MCH Bureau of MOHSA coordinated project activities. A Population
Loan Section was established within the Bureau's MCH Division for day-to-day
management of the project, staffed by coordinators for construction, training
and IEC as well as an accountant. The Director General of the Bureau of MCH was
designated Project Director and the Director of the MCH Division in the Bureau
was the Project Executive Director. A Project Advisory Committee comprising
representatives of the implementing agencies as well as universities, the Korean
Development Institute and the Korean Health Development Institute was established
to advise the Project Director. Project implementation responsibilities were
as follows. The provincial governments, PPFK and KIFP, under the direction of
MOHSA, were responsible for the construction of physical facilities and
procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles. PPFK, under MOHSA supervision,
was responsible for the IEC component, KIFP was responsible for family planning
training and the conversion of community health workers into multipurpose
workers, and MOHSA was responsible for midwifery training and monitoring of
research and evaluation activities, which would be contracted out to public and
private researcn groups.
3. IMPLEMENTATION
Effectiveness and Start-up
3.1         The project loan for US$30.0 million was approved by the Board on
December 11, 1979 and became effective on March 21, 1980, three months after
loan signing. Effectiveness was conditional on the Government's issuance of an
Executive Order, satisfactory to the Bank, describing PPFK's obligations and
functions under the project.
3.2         Project start-up was essentially delayed by two years due to the
Government's serious financial constraints in 1980 and 1981 and consequent
inability to provide a budgetary allocation for the project's local costs in
those years; this continued into 1982 when only 50% of the agreed budgetary
allocation was provided. During this period, the Government did, however, carry
out a number of preparatory activities that had little or no cost implications.
These included:
(a)   appointment of staff to the Population Loan Section in MOHSA;



-7-
(b)   appointment of the Project Advisory Committee;
(c)   appointment of executive architects for the construction components
and the undertaking of the design work;
(d)   site acquisition for MCH centers by provincial governments and PPFK;
(e)   design of the expanded IEC program and planning of the new production
studio at PPFK;
(f)   preparation of fieldworker and nurse training curricula and the
training of the first group of staff; and
(g)   administrative action to convert unipurpose health workers into
multipurpose workers and improve their civil service status and
employment terms.
This pragmatic approach by the Government had the positive effect that, when
funds for the major activities became available in 1982, implementation moved
rapidly.
3.3         The slow start to implementation was paradoxically fortuitous not
only in allowing the completion of tasks such as site acquisition, design work
and training curricula development, but also in providing time for the resolution
of a number of issues that had not been completely addressed during project
preparation. Despite the long period between an agreement to proceed with a
population project (September 1976) and appraisal (April 1979), project
preparation was actually carried out in a relatively short time, forcing the
deferral of some issues until after loan approval. The two-year delay in
implementation allowed the smooth resolution of these issues which necessitated
some changes in project design (para. 3.6). The extensive "preparation' work
done in the first eighteen months of the project was, in consequence, partly
responsible for the subsequent efficient execution of the project. The Bank was
very supportive of the proposed changes and this flexible approach went a long
way towards the projects' success.
3.4         Several events occurred at project start-up that could have seriously
affected implementation. A change of governm^nt in 1979 was accompanied by a
concomitant change in national priorities.   This was followed in 1980 by a
government reorganization and consolidation under which the Bureau of MCH in
MOHSA was downgraded to a Division in the Bureau of Public Health and the Korean
Institute for Family Planning lost its separate identity and was merged with the
Korean Health Development Institute into the new Korean Institute for Population
and Health (KIPH). Normally, such changes would indicate that MCH and family
planning activities would receive lower priority in both organizations,
especially as the new President of KIPH came from the health rather than
population area. Many observers at the time feared that the family planning
program had lost its momentum and some of its priorities, and pointed to an
actual decline in program acceptors in 1980 and 1981, something that had not
occurred before or since.



3.5         Fortunately, these events did not affect the continued success of
the program or implementation of the project.   The Government's efficient
administrative system, with its considerable delegated authority to MOHSA, as
well as the technical skills and commitment of KIPH staff, contributed to the
success  of  the program  and project.    The high-level  Population  Policy
Coordination Committee, which had Cabinet-level status and functioned under the
chairmanship of the Deputy Prime Minister, succeeded in getting top Government
attention and approval for strategies that reactivated the program by 1982; these
strategies included a range of policy and operational measures that accelerated
program performance throughout the 1980s.
Revisions to the Project
3.6         The following revisions were made to the original project which had
the effect of making the project more focused and achieving some cost savings.
These changes were fully discussed with the Bank and agreed to during
supervision. The main changes to project design were as follows:
(a)   Construction and Euuinping of MCH Centers:    The project was
originally to provide 68 "Type A" Centers and 23 'Type BO Centers.
The former are large facilities capable of serving a population of
100,000 to 150,000 persons and handling about 1,600 deliveries a
year, while the latter served a population of 50,000 to 100,000 and
can handle only about 600 births a year. As new demographic data
became available during project implementation, the project design
was simplified since it became evident that many areas could be
served satisfactorily by MCH/FP centers with a smaller number of beds
than anticipated at appraisal. The project therefore provided 29
Type A Centers and 60 Type B Centers as well as one urban center for
the Korean Association for Voluntary Sterilization (KAVS). Equipment
and vehicles provided to the MCH centers and health centers was also
less than originally expected as a result of the Project Advisory
Committee's review and modification of the lists of equipment and
vehicles proposed for project financing;
(b)   Day Care Centers:  As part of the 1980 reorganization, the Saemaul
Movement and its women's clubs were made responsible for providing
day care centers, using non-project funds. The 68 day care centers
originally included in the project were therefore not built.
However, a total of 2,413 Saemaul nurseries provide services in urban
low-income and rural areas, including the project areas; and
(c) Training Facilities and Programs: With the merger of KIFP to form
the KIPH, the role of the Institute became more research than
operations oriented.   The training proposed for health staff,
miscellaneous workers and community representatives was therefore
reviewed, and the number of health workers to be trained under the
project was cut back from 8,000 to 4,000 while training of
miscellaneous workers and FP awareness seminars for community leaders
were eliminated. Responsibility for health training was reassigned
to the National Institute of Health (NIH), with other training left
to PPFK and the Saemaul Movement.   This reallocation of tasks



-9-
resulted in the cancellation of the KIFP Training Center and
dormitory from the project, but turned out to be advantageous in that
NIH was able to decentralize training to existing regional
facilities, thereby addressing the training needs of the project
very effectively at a much lower cost than had been anticipated.
3.7         Addition of a Comprehensive Maternal and Child Health Center
Component. By mid-1982, it became apparent that there would be considerable
savings under the loan due to the reduction in project construction, a major
devaluation of the won, and lower than expected construction costs caused by
keen competition between construction companies at a time of general recession
in Korea. The Government proposed that the undisbursed balance of loan funds
be used to expand project activities, and MOHSA initially suggested the
construction of health centers and subcenters. This was not approved by EPB,
and MOHSA subsequently offered an innovative proposal to complement the original
project by financing the construction, equipping and furnishing of about seven
higher-level medical facilities that would serve as regional referral centers
for the more complicated obstetric, pediatric and family planning cases that
could not readily be handled by the MCH/FP centers already built with project
funds. The regional centers would also help train family planning workers and
other staff needed by the primary clinics and provide specialist advice to the
staff of those clinics. The secondary-level comprehensive MCH centers were to
be attached to private non-profit hospitals since the majority of hospitals in
Korea (85% at this time) were operated by the private sector. The incorporation
of private hospitals within the proposed amended project was expected to
significantly strengthen the Government's MCH/FP program by bringing it into the
mainstream of health care.
3.8         The construction of comprehensive MCH centers (CMCHCs) was expected
to be the first phase of a broader government-sponsored program in which the
entire nation would be served by 13 such comprehensive secondary-level
facilities. Since the secondary-level MCH/FP program was still in a formative
stage, the Government proposed that one of the participating hospitals should
assume a lead role in the overall system of MCH/FP care. The lead hospital
selected, a national MCH/FP center established in 1984 with assistance from
Japan, would provide a base for operational and clinical research. It would
define, develop and disseminate materials on standard MCH/FP procedures,
including training packages for the staff of participating hospitals. It would
also develop an appropriate management information system and undertake much of
the preparatory work needed for further development of the MCH/FP program. In
effect, the lead hospital was to constitute the logical apex of a pyramidal
MCH/FP care structure.
3.9         After almost a year of planning and informal discussions,  the
detailed proposal was submitted to the Bank in March 1985 and accepted shortly
thereafter, since it tied in well with the project objectives and would enhance
the operational effectiveness of the primary clinics already constructed by
providing higher-level support. The Government's proposal was appraised by the
Bank in August 1985 and approved by the Board in March 1986. The Loan Agreement
was amended in April 1986 to provide funds for:
(a)   construction, furnishing and equipping of about 7 comprehensive MCH



- 10 -
centers to be attached to already established hospitals strategically
located in regional centers throughout the country, providing each
center with 23 to 120 additional hospital beds;
(b)   accommodation, furniture and equipment, including computer equipment
and personnel, for the lead hospital so that it could fulfill its
role of tertiary-level center; and
(c)   the development of linkages between public and private sector health
facilities, through the provision of in-service training, technical
assistance to primary MCH/FP centers, management information systems,
and research and development support.
The organizational arrangements for the CMCHC component were the same as those
for the original project.   A CMCHC Coordination Committee established for
coordination of the CMCHC program was headed by the Project Director and included
representatives of the participating hospitals. Bank loan funds were on-lent
to the participating private hospitals on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan, and the hospitals bore the foreign exchange risk of the subloans.
3.10        The modification of the project was an appropriate response to the
country's rapidly changing health needs. As originally designed, the project
conformed with the Bank's 1978 health policy focus on primary health care; this
approach was consistent with international strategies and the Government's own
approach at that time.   The project was therefore intended to strengthen rural
health care, including MCH care, and to leave behind a network of institutions
at the local level. However, even as the project was being developed, changes
were occurring in the country's health care needs and institutional roles: the
public sector provision of basic primary care and implementation of preventive
measures were giving way to the provision of sophisticated primary and secondary
care, primarily by the private sector. The progressive expansion of health
insurance provided the financial mechanism which allowed increased access to
better care for much of the population. This broad view was also possible as
national health planning had begun to develop an overall nationwide health care
system that would establish geographic service catchment areas and link public
and private sector services at all three levels of health care. The trend toward
the integration of all levels of service accelerated as health insurance
progressively became available to the population. The Bank in the reprogrammed
CMCHC component assisted the Government's plan to provide better and more
sophisticated care to mothers and children. The CMCHC component also recognized
the technical leadership that secondary and tertiary health care facilities
(which are practically all in the private sector) can play in support of the
Government's primary care system.
Progress of Implementation
3.11        Construction.   The performance of the borrower in implementing
project civil works was outstanding. Although project start-up was delayed by
two years due to fiscal constraints, the Government subsequently made up for
the initial funding shortfall. Project activities were substantially completed
by mid-1985, essentially in three and one half years elapsed time rather than
the four years originally planned. Implementation involved operations in over



- 11 -
90 counties and 11 urban centers around the country, but despite the geographical
dispersion, works were carried out satisfactorily. Annex 1 shows the progress
of project construction while Annex 2 lists the facilities comp1leted.
3.12        Actual accomplishments under the project included: 89 of the 91
planned MCH centers as well as one facility for KAVS, all 11 PPFK MCH/FP centers,
the PPFK video production studio, and 11 CMCH centers, which surpassed the seven
or eight centers envisioned at the time of project reprogramming. The 29 Type
A MCH centers each have an area of 1,000 sq m and 16 maternity beds, with a full-
time doctor, 14 nursing or midwifery staff and five support staff. The 60 Type
B centers each have an area of 800 sq m and six maternity beds, with seven
nursing and midwifery staff and four support staff. The centers provide the full
range of mother and child services, including deliveries. The 11 PPFK centers
each have an area of 1,100 sq m, 12 maternity beds and a staff of one doctor,
five nursing and midwifery staff and five support staff.
3.13        Implementation of the CMCHC component was exceptional.  The Bank
approved the component in March 1986, and construction was substantially
completed at loan closing on December 31, 1987. All of the 11 centers were
operational by the first half of 1988. The accelerated pace of implementation
was due to the project implementation experience in MOHSA and the efficiency of
the private hospitals' management.   Bank staff adopted modified review and
approval procedures based on earlier project experience that also helped
implementation.
3.14        Trgining.  The project originally included a very extensive training
program for about 8,000 family planning fieldworkers and various other personnel
involved in family planning, as well as awareness seminars aimed at personnel
from other agencies. During project implementation, it waS decided that this
program was overly ambitious and somewhat unrealistic. The program was therefore
redesigned to achieve its goals but through a more focussed technical training
program with less attention to miscellaneous worker training and awareness
seminars. This decision was fully justified.
3.15         Training was therefore provided under the project to 3,877 existing
health workers, essentially meeting the target of training 4,000 current
employees  (Annex  3).    However,  the  recruitment  of  an  additional  4,000
fieldworkers was found to be no longer necessary. The staff trained under the
project comprised nurse supervisors and nurse-aids who were unipurpose workers
providing categorical services in MCH, FP or tuberculosis.   Technical and
supervisory training was provided to the nurse supervisors who were appointed
to the health centers to oversee the work of the multipurpose workers and provide
them with needed technical guidance. The nurse-aids benefitted from a four-
month training program of theoretical and practical training combined with annual
refresher courses aimed at making them competent in all three public nealth areas
and enabling them to function as multipurpose workers. The training was linked
to institutional reform, giving the workers civil service status and improved
pay and terms of service to reduce the high staff turnover.
3.16        Refresher training in short 3-day courses was also initiated in 1987
when some 320 health staff took the course. About 880 staff were trained in 1988
and the program is to be continued. A special program to train midwives was also



- 12 -
initiated, and some 81 persons have been trained.
3.17        IEC Activities.   This component, implemented by PPFK within the
framework of an overall strategy agreed to by MOHSA, was unusual in its
implementation by an NGO. Although a major IEC role was originally proposed
for MOHSA, the Government preferred to involve PPFK for this purpose due to
PPFK's greater skills in this area.   The equipment provided to the 203 health
centers and to MCH centers and hospitals was well used for demonstrations and
education.   The PPFK production studio produced some 31 videos and slide
presentations during 1984-87, which were copied and distributed. The reactivated
mobile IEC vans formed the basic support for field campaigns.
3.18        Research and Evaluation.  The project financed three studies: (a)
design and implementation of a reporting system for MCH/FP center activities,
(b) assessment of the operations of the MCH centers, and (c) evaluation of the
multipurpose worker training program.
3.19        The reporting system was designed and introduced in 1982 when the
first 14 MCH centers became operational. An adaptation of the same system is
also being used by the PPFK clinics.
3.20        An initial evaluation of the 49 MCH centers offering services in
1983 was carried out in that year by KIPH, with particular reference to
management matters. This evaluation reviewed aspects such as staffing, hours
of service, operating budgets, community acceptance, availability of drugs and
vaccines, and the nature of competing services. The findings presented an uneven
picture and indicated that the clinics would take several years to reach their
maximum potential. The findings highlighted the difficulties of involving more
than one primary implementing agency, in this case the Ministry of Home Affairs
which is involved in clinic operations since it is responsible for all provincial
matters including budget and staffing. Staff recruitment and retention was also
identified as a problem, especially for round-the-clock delivery services which
were very difficult to staff. Other operational difficulties identified were
inadequate budget provision, physician availability and divided management
controls and work relationships.
3.21        A final study of MCH center operations was carried out by KIPH at
completion of project works. This study showed that operations had significantly
improved but were still below the original design potential. The MCH centers
were more fully utilized and staffing levels were about 80% of approved strength.
By 1987, the average budget provision for both Type A and Type B MCH centers was
80% of the proposed budget plan for their centers. Compared to 1986, delivery
of services at theso clinics in 1987 was growing by about 11% for deliveries,
40% for post-natal care and 46% in infant care. More than 75% of MCH center
staff participate in non-center activities to support health and population
development in the community. This support included working with the Saemaul
movement and participating in other community programs for the provision of
health and family planning education.
3.22        The third study centered on the 1988 multipurpose health workers
training program and on the workers' subsequent performance. This course was
designed to augment the workers' practical work experience by providing technical



- 13 -
knowledge and improving work skills. Most of the workers found the training
adequate in child care, family planning and public health cofftrol, but still
inadequate in obstetrical care. Only some 30% of the health workers worked under
the direct supervision of nurses while the remainder worked in township offices
under lay supervisors, guidance and quality control supervision. An appropriate
arrangement to provide these workers with technical supervision still needs to
be developed.
3.23        In addition, clinical research and community health studies were
carried out under the CMCHC component. These studies were completed in 1988
and published in a Korean university journal. The clinical component indicated
the need to establish national policies on screening for metabolic and
chromosomal abnormalities in mothers and children. The community health studies
provided a scheme for an HIS system and a training module; they also assessed
the implications of social and behavioral factors in the use of MCH services.
The studies carried out under the project were confined to those that the
Government and the Bank considered as critical to project objectives.
3.24        Conclusion.  The original project timetable was realistic and would
have been met had the Government's fiscal constraints not occurred. The
Government and the Bank recognized that the 21-month implementation schedule
for the CMCHC component was extremely ambitious, but their mutual commitment to
meet the closing date of December 31, 1987 resulted in special efforts to
complete this component.
Prolect Costs and Einancing
3.25        The project as implemented cost US$68.2 million, considerably less
than the appraisal estimate of US$91.5 million despite the inclusion of a
substantial additional component that broadened the project scope. The Bank
loan provided US$30 million which represented the final total foreign exchange
cost of the project and 39% of the total project cost. The cost of the original
project as implemented was US$31.8 million or 35% of the appraisal estimate; the
Bank loan financed US$12.5 million of this cost. The savings of US$17.5 million
from the Bank loan were reprogrammed for the construction and equipping of CMCH
centers. The latter component had an actual cost of US$31.3 million, slightly
more than the US$30.7 million estimated at appraisal.
3.26        Project costs were much less than expected due to the combined
effects of the following factors:
(a)   devaluation of the Korean won from an exchange rate of W 485 to the
U.S. dollar at appraisal to W 840 to the dollar in March 1985. The
devaluation brought about savings of US$9 million under the Bank
loan;
(b)   reduction in the number and size of physical facilities constructed
under the project, which resulted in US$3.1 million of savings under
the loan; and
(c)   lack of need for project contingencies and the payment of certain
local costs from the government budget, rather than the project.



- 14 -
The cost of constructing the MCH Centers was very close to appraisal
estimates in local currency while training costs and study expenses
were met from the Government budget. As a result, savings under the
loan totaled US$5.4 million.
Detailed project costs of the original project and the CMCHC component are given
in Annex 4.
Disbursement
3.27        Disbursement of the Bank loan by year and by category is shown in
Annex 5.  Due to the initial implementation delay, loan closing was extended
from the original date of June 30, 1984 to June 30, 1985, then to December 31,
1985.   Following reprogramming of the project for the CMCHC component, the
closing date was set at December 31, 1987, and the loan closed on that date,
although disbursement was allowed to continue into 1988.
Procurement
3.28        Project procurement was fully satisfactory and at all times problem-
free.  There were no major issues either with the borrower or with bidders.
MOHSA was responsible for procurement through the active involvement of the
Office of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK). International bidding procedures
were followed for the procurement of most items including construction; however
with a strong domestic building industry and considerable local manufacturing
of equipment and furniture, all construction contracts and significant amounts
of  equipment  contracts  were  won  by  local  contractors.    Contracts  for
sophisticated medical equipment and electronic and film production equipment went
generally to foreign suppliers.
3.29        The minor issues that arose in the course of procurement were
process-related and consisted of:
(a)   ensuring that contracts were awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder
rather than the bidder offering the "average bidding price," as was
the local practice for construction contracts. MOHSA had concerns
that the lowest price approach might affect quality and result in
implementation problems; it cited five cases where bids seemed
unrealistically low at between 53% and 59% of the appraisal estimate;
(b)   ensuring that bid evaluation considered such factors as maintenance
of service facilities and availability of spare parts for the
purchase of 90 ambulances for MCH centers as well as X-ray and other
sophisticated medical equipment for the CKCHCs; and
(c)   ensuring that up-to-date equipment was acquired.  Some early bids
for medical equipment offering the lowest price were for outdated
items, but this problem was rapidly corrected.
Compliance with Loan Covenants
3.30        Compliance with conditions specified in the Loan Agreement was full



- 15 -
and complete, with covenants met as required and on time. There were, however,
a number of non-substantive changes to loan conditions that were fully justified
by a re-examination of local circumstances. The extensive amount of detail and
precision originally considered necessary in some of the covenants were overtaken
by changed conditions in the country, and appropriate revisions were therefore
made. These changes improved project implementation and had no negative impact
on project scope or outcome. Details of compliance with the loan covenants are
given in Annex 6.
&tporting
3.31        From the start of the project, a systematic reporting procedure was
agreed with the borrower and worked well during the life of the project. The
six-monthly supervision missions received the following reports: (a) construc-
tion and operations of MCH centers (by project unit in MOHSA); (b) PPFK center
construction, center operations and IEC activities (by PPFK); and (c) progress
of the training components (from NIH).   In addition, regular reports were
received on the progress of the Family Planning Program and on MCH services from
KIPH. These reports were well done and were reviewed with the Project Director
for appropriate follow-up during missions.
4. PROJECT AND PROGRAM IMPACT
4.1         The project as originally designed consisted of a major expansion
of the physical facilities and service capacity of the rural primary health care
system. The reprogramming to include CMCH centers expanded secondary level care
in 11 provinces. Both these sets of activities were inter-related and provided
an appropriate response to the rapidly changing health and population trends in
Korea in the 1980s. Both parts of the project gave considerable emphasis to
improved quality of services and better integration of health and family planning
operations. While it is too soon to assess the full impact of the project on
health and fertility status since the project institutions are still rather new -
- the MCH centers did not become fully operational until two years ago and the
CMCHCs became operational only in 1988, it is obvious even now that the project
was successful in its overall performance and in its impact on the health and
population sectors. As shown in Annex 7, the project's objectives (para. 2.6)
were largely achieved in terms of reducing the infant and maternal mortality
rates, and providing services through the new facilities. The family planning
targets in terms of the birth rate and the number of contraceptive users have
been surpassed, and partly as a result of the project Korea achieved replacement
fertility in 1984, more than eight years earlier than originally predicted.
Project Impact
4.2         The completion of the MCH and PPFK centers resulted in substantial
expansion of MCH services in Korea. As indicated in Annex 8, by 1987 all 89
government MCH centers were operational, permitting a significant increase in
service in 1987 compared to 1986, including a 19% increase in prenatal care
provided, 11% for birth assistance, 40% for postnatal care and 46% for infant
care. At PPFK clinics, which focus solely on family planning, the increase
between 1985 and 1987 was remarkable - a 304% increase for prenatal care, 739%
for postnatal care and 121% for infant care (Annex 8). The PPFK family planning



- 16 -
service also showed improvement on its already high level of acceptance. The
level of acceptance at MCH centers has been less than predicted at appraisal,
in part because it was impossible to predict or assess the significant shift to
private sector medical care then under way as a result of increased availability
of health insurance. Nor was it possible to predict the rapidity of the pace of
population shifts from rural to urban areas.
4.3         Birth assistance in 1987 averaged 590 per clinic for PPFK clinics
and 226 per clinic for government MCH centers. These numbers are substantially
lower than the appraisal projections of 1,200 deliveries for PPFK centers, 1,600
deliveries for Type A centers and 600 deliveries for Type B centers.   The
clinics, however, are now beginning their third year of operation and further
browth can be expected. The use of the MCH centers for preventive services shows
substantial growth. An earlier problem of physician staffing for Type A MCH
centers was resolved in part by assigning to them doctors already doing national
service.   The quality of the services at these centers has improved with
assignment of the newly trained staff. The four formats developed for the "at
risk approach" (infant/delivery/premature/post-naral) has been applied at MCH
clinics since 1984. Overall clinic staffing levels were 928 persons in position,
compared to the approved strength of 996.
4.4         Training carried out under the project resulted in improved quality
of field staff and consequently improved service.   The conversion of the
unipurpose field workers to multipurpose workers and their absorption into the
civil service reduced the annual turnover rate from around 30% to 5%.
4.5         The IEC activities supported by the project were effective and
contributed to increased service demand. Annex 9 gives details of PPFK's IEC
accomplishments as well as the various services provided b the mobile units.
At the conclusion of the project, PPFK had established a solid program and the
capacity to manage IEC in a rapidly changing environment. The IEC program has
been recognized as a model, and the United Nations Population Fund has since
1987 supported training of overseas participants at the following PPFK and KIPH
workshops: program management, community participation and IEC operations and
materials production (Annex 10).
4.6         The research and evaluation studies carried out under the project
were selected to provide a sound basis for monitoring MCH and IEC operations
during the implementation phase and at project completion. In general, study
results show significant improvement in MCH service use over the project life.
The studies have also indicated inadequacies in project implementation in such
areas as improving the effectiveness of multipurpose workers and expanding the
services at MCH centers. A data system supported by the project provided the
basis for operational monitoring of services. The research done under the CMCHC
component provided valuable clinical and community health results that can be
used to improve MCH services.
4.7         The construction of 11 CMCH Centers under the project (out of a
total of 13 required nationwide) represented a major realignment of health care
in Korea, introducing the concept of secondary CMCHCs' providing technical
control and guidance of MCH centers within their catcbment area and serving as
the principal referral hospitals for the MCH centers. The public sector did not
have such facilities and this component introduced a collaborative public



- 17 -
sector/private sector relationship. The CMCHCs were not operational until 1988
but the hospitals began providing support services in 1987 in their existing
facilities. The 11 CMCHCs have consequently already trained some 600 personnel
and handled 876 referrals. The details of the referrals are given in Annex 8.
Policy Changes
4.8         The project heightened awareness of the need for adequate MCH
services and helped sensitize the Government to the importance of ensuring that
the population had access to such services. Although a Maternal and Child Health
Law had been introduced in 1973 to establish better MCH services, its
implementation had been delayed by lack of funds, and only eight MCH centers
existed nationwide prior to this project. The project's focus on improving MCH
care reinforced the need for a sound MCH Law and caused the Government to review
the 1973 law, concluding that the MCH situation had changed significantly in the
past decade and that new and more effective legislation was needed.   The
increased concern for mother and child arose in view of a rapid decline in
fertility, smaller family size, rise in the marriage age and the resultant higher
risk of complications. The MCH Law was amended by the National Assembly in 1986
to provide for central and local government support of MCH care, for pregnancy
registration and subsidized or free MCH care. This care would include regular
medical check-ups,  immunization and, as needed, hospital back-up care.   A
National MCH Handbook was also designed together with an accompanying family
health record book to track and monitor health progress of mothers and children.
National -Family Planning Progrm
4.9         The Korean Family Planning Program is the first one in any country,
with the exception of the City-States, that has achieved demographic transition
since organized family planning programs were started three decades ago. In 25
years, Korea has reduced its total fertility level from 6.1 in 1960 to 2.1 in
1985, causing the rate of population growth to drop from 2.8% in 1960 to 1.25%
in 1985 (Annex 11).   It is projected that at the current level of program
performance, Korea will reach a population growth rate of 1% by 1993. The birth
rate has also declined from 43.0 in 1960 to 19.7 in 1985: during the same period
the death rate declined from 28.4 per thousand to 12.5 per thousand population.
The present population of 41.5 million (1986) is expected to stabilize at 52
million by 2023. Details of program performance during 1962-87 are given in
Annex 12.
4.10        Korea's demographic transition to below-replacement fertility in 25
years is a unique achievement for a country.  The factors that led to this
success included systematic monitoring of program performance, analysis of
program trends (such as acceptor profile and contraceptive mix), implementation
of sophisticated information and education programs and the introduction of a
range of appropriate social policies.
4.11        Project  activities  and  the  related  dialogue  with  Government
contributed to the success of the family planning program by providing the base
for expansion of key program activities and contributing to their positive
outcomes.   The project provided the Bank with an opportunity to work with



- 18 -
national institutions dedicated to achieving program goals and to use new and
innovative policies and operational strategies to influence demographic change.
Progress of Health Status
4.12        Korea's health profile has undergone significant changes in the past
three decades. The country has made the epidemiological transition from the
classic low-income country health situation to that of the more economically
advanced countries. The change is reflected in the current low birth and death
rates as well as in today's low infant mortality rate. (The infant mortality
rate stated in official reports is 30 per thousand live births but surveys and
other observations indicate it may be as low as 18 per thousand.) As the Korean
health profile has changed, the health needs of the population have also changed.
A rapid shift is taking place from dependence on public health measures and basic
primary health care to more sophisticated primary and secondary health care,
including greater use of curative care and physician services. Health insurance
introduced in 1976 will become universal by 1989 and greatly increase access to
health care.
5. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Borrower's Performance
5.1         MOHSA's performance, measured against its sustained commitment to
the project, to the long-term sector goals and to effective project
implementation, was excellent. Although there was an unavoidable two-year start-
up delay, MOHSA was at all times concerned about the delay and was pragmatic in
developing solutions to cope with the situation. The Ministry's officials were
prudent in project management, and this quality enabled all the agreed project
activities to be completed with substantial economies.   MOHSA officials and
officials at EPB were sensitive to the rapid changes in the health and population
profile in the country and to the need to adapt their strategies to meet these
changes. The addition of the CMCHC component is one indication of this concern.
All changes aqnd modifications to the original design were carefully considered,
technically evaluated and well presented for Bank consideration.  A project
implementation reporting system was developed fairly early in the project and
contributed to good project monitoring.
5.2         Although this was the first Bank operation in Korea's population,
health and nutrition sector, the implementation capacity of the borrower was
fully adequate.  The executing agency (NOHSA) as well as the four principal
participating groups (PPFK, KIPH, NIH and the hospitals) mastered the necessary
procedures and approaches and carried out the project consistent with the Loan
Agreement and related Bank procedures. Historical experience in this sector in
other countries has shown a much slower learning curve.
5.3         The project was well managed by MOHSA, using national staff,
consultants and contractors. A significant feature of this project was the very
limited use of external consultants for management support. Such assistance was
used only for new areas such as defining the "at risk" approach to MCH care and
the innovative IEC techniques and technology. The project management team in
MOHSA, the Population Loan Section, was an effective and well operated entity,



- 19 -
which managed and coordinated all operations under the overall supervision of
the Director of the Family Health Division. The principal participating agencies
also collaborated well. Although some inter-agency tensions did occur during
the project period, these were at a very low level and were submerged in the
greater task of carrying out the project activities. Staff involved in project
implementation grew considerably in skill and technical stature over the life
of the project.
5.4         The institutional stability of the participating institutions and
the continuity of key project staff were other important factors in successful
implementation.
Bank Performance
5.5         In general, the Bank's multisectoral population and health projects
have required a great deal of supervision effort, well above the Bank average.
This was not so, however, in the case of this project which required only 80
staff-weeks of supervision between 1980 and 1987, i.e., 10 weeks per year. Bank
supervision teams consisted of four members in the first two years of project
implementation, declining to three members in the third year and to two members
for the rest of the project's life. Supervision was done, on average, twice a
year and most missions were of two weeks duration.   The significant reduction
of supervision needs was allowed by continuity in the composition of the two
person  supervision  teams.    The  progressive  growth  of  the  borrower's
implementation capacity made supervision essentially a trouble-free operation.
At the same time, during the process of supervision, considerable sector and
program dialogue took place and enabled innovative actions to be developed and
implemented.   These actions included development of an effective project
implementation reporting system and consultations which went beyond family
planning strategies to consider CMCHC development and future directions in health
financing.
5.6         There was initial criticism within the Bank that the expansion of
the project to include the CMCHC component would move away from the Bank's
primary health care policy. It was also suggested in the Bank that the component
would change the thrust and focus of the project. It can now be said that by
providing 11 of the 13 CMCHCs required nationwide and assisting in the
establishment of a new working relationship between the public and private health
care sectors, a good start has been made in coping with new trends and
institutional changes in the Korean health care sector.
The Government/Bank Working Relationship
5.7         During project preparation, the relationship of the Government and
the Bank was sometimes complicated as perceptions and expectations of what the
project could do and how it should be packaged caused considerable debate and
delay. Preparation moved more satisfactorily after 1978 with the appointment
of both a new Bank task manager for the project and a new Director General of
MCH in MOHSA.  From this stage to project completion, there was remarkable
continuity in the Bank staff involved, and c-rer the next ten years the project
had only two task managers. In MOHSA, the project executive director changed
four times, but there was overall continuity in support of the project by



- 20 -
professional staff.
5.8         The working relationship between the Bank and the borrower remained
fully satisfactory at all times throughout the life of the project. Difficulties
did arise, but they were always resolved effectively, to the mutual satisfaction
of both parties. There was a good level of trust and confidence between the
Government and the Bank, which is best summarized in the Government's PCR which
states, "The IBRD Mission made great efforts to facilitate the implementation
of the project through mutual cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, with EPB
and with MOHSA. The visits made a great contribution to better understanding
between the IBRD and the Republic of Korea."
6. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
ConGclmian
6.1         The Population Project was developed in the late 1970s when Korea
was experiencing rapid population growth and the health of its population,
particularly in the rural areas, required further improvement.  The project
addressed both of these concerns, quite appropriately. Korea's family planning
program had reached a plateau in its acceptance rate, and new approaches were
needed to gain increased participation.   The structure and scope of the
Population Project assisted the Government to shift its population strategy and
reinforce the effectiveness of the family planning program by: (a) reducing
infant mortality so that mothers would be encouraged to accept a small-family
norm; (b) improving service quality so that clients would continue to practice
contraception; (c) providing sophisticated IEC messages to influence specific
target groups; and (d) integrating basic health care at the service level.
6.2  The identification, preparation and appraisal of the project were therefore
innovative and consistent with emerging sector knowledge and developing
strategies for second-stage family planning programs. The decision to carry out
a major expansion of health facilities to provide better access to services for
the rural population and for greater equity was appropriate. The adoption of
the principle that improved maternal health and infant welfare would enhance
fertility decline and strengthen contraceptive practice was a relatively new idea
at the time, but proved to be correct in the light of subsequent project
experience.
6.3         While the project's basic approach continued to be valid throughout
the implementation period, certain aspects of project design became inappropriate
as a result of major social, economic and political changes that occurred during
project implementation and altered the sectoral situation. Rapid urbanization
(70% of Korea's population now live in urban areas) reduced the earlier need to
focus on expanding rural health services, as did trends toward improved
communications with urban centers, rapidly rising incomes, and the access
afforded by universal health insurance to sophisticated health care in urban
areas.
6.4         The project adapted successfully to these changes.  The significant
savings realized under the loan were used to establish a three-tiered regional
health care network to meet the present and future needs expected to arise from



- 21 -    I
universal health insurance. A more traditional approach to cancel the project
savings would have denied the Government the opportunity to begin rationalizing
its MCH delivery system in this way and to develop new working arrangements
between the public and private health sectors.
6.5         The project's organizational arrangements worked very satisfactorily
during the eight-year project period. The success of these arrangements can be
attributed to two major factors.   First,  the project was implemented by
experienced national institutions with proven track records; second, the
institutional arrangements fitted well into the Korean management and cultural
environment.
6.6         The decision to finance the project was fully justified as the
project not only met its population and health status objectives but also
provided the Bank with an opportunity to learn from and collaborate on a program
at the forefront of the population and health sector.   The strategies and
activities developed in Korea have significance for other programs in the Region
that are reaching the same phase in their national family planning programs.
The project was also valuable in involving the Bank in an extensive sector
dialogue, not only on population issues but also on the emerging government
concern for health care financing in a period of health transition. A Bank
sector report on health system financing has since been prepared and submitted
to the Government, and the policies based, in part, on this report are now being
introduced to handle the population's rising demand for health services.
6.7         Overall, four factors played a major role in the project's success.
First, there was a strong national commitment to achieving the Government's
development objectives, including its goals for the population sector.  The
second factor was the country's efficient and fully accountable civil service
which worked to realize the national population goals. The third factor was the
healthy Government-NGO relationship in the population sector. And the fourth
was the successful inclusion of the private health sector in important project
activities through on-lending of project funds. As has been seen in Singapore
and Thailand, success in the population sector moved in parallel with success
in development.
Lessons Learned
6.8         The most important lesson learned as a result of the project is that
changes in the population sector can occur rapidly and call for flexibility in
the implementation of population programs and projects. When the time between
project conception and loan closing is a decade or more, original project
assumptions may become outdated mid-way in the life of the project, necessitating
changes in the project design. In the case of this project, both the Government
and the Bank eventually showed flexibility in their approaches to the project
and time has shown the wisdom of the decision to reprogram the project through
the addition of a major component.
6.9         Other lessons learned under the project include:
(a)   the importance of reaching agreement with the borrower on project
strategy and content as soon as possible once the decision to



- 22 -
implement a project is made. The failure to reach such agreement
delayed preparation of the Population Project;
(b)   the need to avoid overdesign and excessive detail in project
preparation. The components of the project which were dropped after
reconsideration during the first project year need not have been
included at all; they were desirable but not critical;
(c)   project decisions should be made rapidly.  Internal bureaucratic
considerations, first within the Government and later in the Bank,
delayed concurrence to the addition of the CMCHC component for almost
two years. The project could have closed a year earlier had the
institutional debate not taken place and the Bank responded to the
Government's proposal without undue delay; and
(d)   the inclusion of NGOs and the private health sector in the project
was well-founded, since it permitted not only significant expansion
of service availability beyond the government health sector but also
the testing of new methods of expanding and upgrading services.



- 23 -
Annex--I
KOREA
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KOi
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Progress of Proiect Construction Components
Project                 Actual
Construction of:     Plan    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986    Total
Gov't MCH Centers       91    14     28     29      18                     89
PPFK MCH/FP Centers     11            4             7                      11
PPFK Studio              1                           1                      1
KAVS Center              0                           1                      1
Dayeare Centers         68                                             Dropped
KIFP Training Facility   1                                             Dropped
About
cNCH Centers             7                                        11       11
Note: Year refers to start of construction. Components were completed within
12 months of starting date.



- 24 .
wA.nnl 2
Page 1 of 2
KOAR
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 ,KO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
List of Facilities Constructed Under the Prolect
A. Government MCH Centgrs
City                                      City
Province       Kun             Type       Province       Kun            Type
Kyeonggi       Kwangju          B         Choongbuk      Boeun           B
Kapeong          B                       Kaesan           B
Yangpeong        B                       Jungwon          A
Kimpo            B                       Eumsung          B
Kangwha          B                       Cheongwon        A
Ahnsung          A                       Ockcheon         B
Whasung          A                       Yeongdong        B
Koyang           A                       Danyang          B
Pochun           B                       Jewon            B
Yeonchun         B
Yongin           A
Kanuwon        Cheolwon         B         Choungnam      Yasan           B
Whachun          B                        Seochun         B
Yangku           B                       Dangjin          A
Jungsun          B                        Seosan          A
Yangyang         B                        Chunwon         B
Kosung           B                       Kumsan           B
Inje             B                       Taejeon          A
Peongchang       B                       Chunan           B
Yeongweol        B
Wonsung          B        Cheonbuk       Ockgu            B
Taeback          B                       Yimsil           B
Chunsung         A                       Kochang          A
Haengsung        B                       Buan             A
Wonju            A                       Jinan            B
Wanju           A
Cheonnam       Jindo            B                       Weolaung         A
Koksung          B                       Ikoan            A
Koheong          A                        Nuju            B
Wando            A                        Jangsu         B
Whasoon          A
Kuwsung          A
Yeongam          B
Muan             B
Jangheong        B
Kurae            B
Mokpo            A
Hasnaa           A
Kwangyang        B



Annex 2
-25-                          Page 2 of 2
City                                     City
Province       Kun             Type      Province        Kun            Type
Kyeongbuk      Cheongsong       B        Kyeongnam       Tongyeong       B
Yeongyang        B                       Yangsan         A
Yeongpung        B                       Keoje           A
Bongwha          B                       Euichang        B
Sanglu           B                       Sachun          B
Koryeong         B                       Haman           B
Chilkok          B                       Sancheong       B
Sunsan           B
Wooliin          B        Cheju          Bukcheju        A
Sangju           A                       Namcheju        B
Yeongduch        8
Euisung          B
B. PPFK MCH/FP Clinics
City/Province
1.  Seoul
2.  Busan
3. Incheon
4. Kveonggi
5. Khngpeo
6.  Chenbuk
9   Cheonnam
16. K eongbuk
11. Kyeongnam
C. CMCH Centers
Hospital        No. of Beds   Area (m2)
1.  Chunchen
Sungshim           150      9,629
. Taeleon
Eul i               84      4,074
3. Chunan
4   Soonchunhyang   80      4,332
4.Jeonju
Jesus               68      2,326
5.  Kwan1 u
Chrilbian           58      3,110
6.  Andong              80      1,050
Sungtso             8        ,5
7.  Gumi            Recon-
Soonchunhyang  struction        -
8.  Busan
Ilshin             120      7,451
9. Wonlu
Christian          100      6,820
10. Cheongju15990
1Rheera            150      9,907
11. Seoul
Korea MCH Center Equip-         -
ment
Research
D. KAVS Center



- 26 -
MX3
FRST POPULATION PR0JECT (LOAN 1774-5 KOI
PROJECT CWMPLETION REPoRT
Tarset vs A &gom=lihment &n Annual Number of
Trainees of Maltiguraose Health Vork.e Trainina
Year      Total            1981            1982              1983            1984             1985
Perfor-        Perfor-         Perfor-           Perfor-          Perfor-         Perfor-
Course     Plan    mauce   Plan   mance   Plan   manoe    Plan    ma-e   Plan    mance   Plan    maace
Total      4.000   3.877    400       39    12000     973   I.j00      2Zu   1.000      9i6    600       $7i
Nurse        520      449     40       37     120     113      120      96     120       92     120      111
Nurse-ald  3,480   3,428    360       356     880     860      880      Ws    880       872     480      465



- 27 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
FIRST POPMLATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ORIGINA  PROJEI
Actual Cost vS Appraisal Estimate by Category
(Unit: million won)]J
Appraisal Estirate           _         Actual Cost
Category       Total        Local      Foreign    Total         Local      Foreign
Total           44,404     29,854      14,550       25,615     15,678       9,937
(91,554)   (61,554)   (30,000)   (931,793)   (19,462)   (12,331)
Civil works    24,927      17,366       7,561       20,476     14,251       6,225
(51,396)   (35,806)   (15,590)    (25,416)   (17,691)    (7,725)
Medical          4,418         662      3,756        4,163         588      3,575
equipment    (9,108.9)  (1,364.8)  (7,744.1)   (5,166)          (730)    (4,436)
Furniture        1,118         635        483          464         327        137
(2,305.1)  (1,309.2)    (995.9)       (576)      (406)       (170)
Management       3,060       3,060           -         512         512          --
(6,309)    (6,309)                    (635)      (635)
Overseas            33           -         33            -           -
training         (68)                   (68)
Contingency    10,848       8,131       2,717            -           -          -
(22,367)   (16,765)    (5,602)
I/ US$ thousands shown in parentheses.



- 28 -
Ane 4
Page 2 of 5
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT tLOAN 1774-5 KG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ORIGINAL PROJECT
ACtUal Coat Vs Apgraisal Estimate by Program
(Unit: million won)2/
Aooraisal Estimate                 Actual Cost
Category            Total        Local    Foreign  Total        Local    Foreign
Total                 44,404    29,854    14,550    25,615    15,678      9,937
(91,554)  (61,554)  (30,000)  (31,793)  (19,462)  (12,331)
MCH Center            35,114    22,714    12,400    12,074    12,959       8,115
(72,400)  (46,832)  (25,568)  (26,151)  (16,081)  (10,070)
Multipurpose Health   1,723      1,650        73        512       512          -
Worker Training    (3,553)   (3,402)      (151)      (641)     (641)
Research and             389       389          -         -         -          -
Evaluation            (802)     (802)
Administrative           318       301        17          -         -          -
Management            (656)     (621)       (35)
PPFK Clinic           4,185      2,887     1,298      3,322     2,086     1,236
(8,628)   (5,953)   (2,675)   (4,123)   (2,589)   (1,534)
PPFK Studio              687       561       126        422       121       301
(1,417)   (1,158)     (260)      (525)     (151)     (374)
PPFK IE & C              402       119       283        285         -       285
Mobile Vans         (3,270)   (2,543)     (727)
2/ US$ thousands shown in parentheses.



- 29 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
KOREA
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CMCHC COMPONENT
b&aiul Costs vs Appraisal Estimate by Catewory
Appraisal Estimate                Actual Costs
(USS: 900 Won)                  (USS: 840 Won)           Balance
Category        Total      Local    Foreign    Total    Local        Foreign    (%)
Total          31,314    15,412    15,902    30,689    15,963    14,726          -2.0
(34,793)  (17,124)  (17,669)  (36,546)  (18,877)  (17,669)   (+5.0)
Civil Work    22,068    13,481        8,587    22,107    14,131       7,976      -0.2
(24,517)  (14,979)    (,538)  (26,056)  (16,625)   (9,431)   (+6.3)
Furniture         128         72         56        134        76         58      +4.5
(142)      (80)       (62)      (169)       (97)       (72)  (-19.0)
Medical         8,229      1,859      6,370      7,605     1,756      5,849      -7.6
equipment   (9,146)   (2,065)   (7,081)   (9,333)   (2,155)   (7,178)   (+2.1)
Research          889          -        889        843          -       843      -5.2
(988)                (988)      (988)                 (988)      (0)



- 30 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CMCHC COMPONENT
Actual Costs vs Appraisal Estimate by Progrm
(Unit: million won)2/
Appraisal Estimte                    Actual Costs
Hospital       Total     Local       Foreign   Total        Local       Foreign
Total         31,314     15,412      15,902     30,689      15,963      14,726
(34,793)   (17,124)   (17,669)   (36,546)   (18,877)   (17,669)
Chunchen       5,068      2,458       2,610      4,848       2,400       2,488
SUngshim      (5,631)    (2,731)    (2,900)    (5,740)    (2,840)    (2,900)
Wonju          3,138      1,869       1,269       3,149      1,954       1,195
Christian    (3,448)    (2,077)    (1,411)    (3,771)    (2,300)    (1,411)
Taejeon       2,809       1,369       1,440      2,723       1,374       1,349
Eulji         (3,121)    (1,521)    (1,600)    (3,230)    (1,630)    (1,600)
Chunan        2,187       1,121       1,066      1,849         884         965
Soonchun      (2,430)    (1,246)    (1,184)    (2,235)    (1,051)    (1,184)
hyang
Jeonju         2,140        989       1,151      1,959         936       1,023
Jesus         (2,379)    (1,099)    (1,280)    (2,391)    (1,111)    (1,280)
Kwangju        2,383      1,028       1,355      2,458       1,220       1,238
Christian    (2,648)    (1,142)    (1,506)    (2,955)    (1,449)    (1,506)
]/ US$ thousands shown in parentheses.



- 31 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CMCHC CONPONENT
Actual Costs vs Avaraisal Estimate by Program
(Unit: million won)
Appraisal Estimate                   Actual Costs
Hospital       Total      Local    Foreign       Total       Local    Foreign
Andong         2,498      1,201       1,297       2,427      1,199       1,228
Sungso        (2,774)    (1,334)    (1,440)    (2,859)    (1,419)    (1,440)
Gumi             393         93         300         389        116         273
Soonchun        (436)      (103)       (333)       (473)      (140)       (333)
hyang
Busan         4,141       2,176       1,965      4,097       2,322       1,775
Ilshin        (4,600)    (2,418)    (2,182)    (4,922)    (2,740)    (2,182)
Cheongju      5,668       3,108       2,560      5,947       3,558       2,389
Rheera        (6,298)    (3,453)    (2,845)    (7,042)    (4,197)    (2,845)
Seoul            889                    889         843          -         843
Soonchun        (988)                  (988)       (988)                  (988)
huang



- 32 -
Annex S
KOREA
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Disbursements
(US$ million)
A. Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Appraisal   Appraisal              Cumulative  Actual as % of
Calendar Year   Estimates   Cumulative   Actual      Actual    Cumulative Apr.
1980           0.3           0.3        0           0            0
1981           7.9           8.2        0           0            0
1982          19.7          27.9      1.47        1.47           5.3
1983           2.1          30.0      4.15        5.62          18.7
1984                                  6.70       12.32
1985                                    0        12.32
1986                                  6.47       18.79
1987                                  8.32       27.11
1988                                  2.89       30.00
Note:  This table can be misleading as a measure of project implementatioui
except for the years 1980 and 1981 when lack of budget delayed implementation.
By 1984, although only US$12.32 million was disbursed, the project activities
originally planned was completed.
B. Actual Disbursement by Category
Category                                            Disbursements (USS)
1.  Civil Works                                          17,184,831.43
2.  Furniture                                               269,525.51
3.  Equipment, Vehicles and Materials                    11,574,578.36
4.  Overseas Training                                         0
5.  Studies on MCH, Information System                    1,000,209.46
6.     Total                                             30,029,144.76



Anmex 6
Page 1 of 3
- 33 -
KOREA
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LAN 1774-5 KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Compliance with Loan Conditions
Conditions
A.  Condition of Effactiveness                  Agreemen            Actual
Issue an Executive Order to PPFK        March 27, 1980    March 27, 1980
acceptable to Bank, regarding PPFK's
obligations and functions under the
project (3.14) which shall not be
changed without prior Bank approval
(4.06).
B.  Conditions of the Loan Agreement
1. Conditions met
(a)  Establish a Project Advisory      March 1, 1980      January 1980
Committee with representatives of
MOHSA, KIFP, KHDI, KDI, PPFK and
universities (3.08).
(b)  Make the Director-General of the  January 1980       January 1980
Bureau of MCH, MOHSA Project Director
and Chairman of the Project Advisory
Committee; and make the Director of
the MCH Division of the Bureau
Project Executive Director (3.10).
(c)  Offer community health worker      (Side Letter)     July 1, 1981
remuneration and service conditions
mutually satisfactory to GROK and the
Bank (3.06).
(d)  Devise detailed quantitative      June 1, 1980       Submitted May 1982
indicators, satisfactory to the Bank,
to measure program progress
(3.04, b).
(e)  Acquire suitable sites for        July 31, 1980      Obtained for 89 NCR
MCH/FP centers and PPFK clinics                           Centers and 11 PPFK
(3.05).                                                   Clinics in
accordance with
construction
program.



- 34 -                           Armex 6
Page 2 of 3
(f)  Provide operating funds for        When needed        Provided by central
MCH/FP centers, mobile units and                           and local
other project facilities and                               governments.
activities (3.07).
(g)  Solicit research proposals from   (No date set)       Evaluation of first
at least three research institutions                       14 undertaken by
for studies; have them evaluated by                        KIPH during 1984.
the Project Advisory Committee; and                        Second evaluation
have selection approved by the Bank                        done in 1988.
(3.09).
(h)  Establish a Joint Operational      June 30, 1981     Ministry of Home
Committee at each MCH/FP ce-.nter,                         Affairs Population
consisting of the Director of the                          Steering Committees
health center, the senior midwife, a                       to be used to avoid
local physician, the leader of the                         duplication.
local Saemaul movement, and at least
one community representative (3.11).
(i)  Submit guidelines to the bank      June 30, 1981     As above
(for comment) on the establishment
and functioning of the Joint
Operational Committees (3.11).
(j)  Ensure that the financing and      No date set        Component dropped
operation of the project's day care                        from project as
centers uses the same integrated                           these are part of
approach as the existing day care                          ongoing Saemaul
centers do (3.12).                                         program.
(k)  Ensure that vehicles are           No date set        Complied with.
properly maintained, used exclusively
for the project, and devise a system
for monitoring the maintenance and
use of the vehicles (3.13).
(1)  Have PPFK maintain records, have  Within 6 mos.       Complied with.
accounts audited annually, and have    end of each
certified audits and report of          fiscal year.
auditors sent to the Bank (4.03).
(m) Make sure that PPFK obtains         No date set        Complied with.
insurance of project funded PPFK
facilities (4.04).



- 35 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
C. Other Kev Actions
(a)  Appoint a Construction             January 1983       Four full-time
Coordinator, IEC Officer, and                              consultant staff
Accounting Officer for project                             appointed and in
administration.                                            place.
(b)  Enter into contracts with          March 1980         Midwife training is
universities and hospitals for the                         being undertaken at
midwifery training program.                                NIH and at 4
provincial
locations.
(c)  Issue instructions to provincial  June 1980           Done with provinces
governments, KIFP and PPFK regarding                       where MCH centers
policies, standards and procedures;                        are being
construction program; designs and                          constructed.
specifications for the MCH centers;
procurement of furniture and
equipment; and reporting.
(d)  Have the provincial governments,  MOHSA: July 1980; MOHSA:  done for
KIFP and PPFK appoint executive         KIFP, PPFK:        provinces where MCH
architects.                             August 1980        centers are being
constructed. PPFK
consultants also
similarly appointed
KIFP component
cancelled.



- 36 -
KORE
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comparison of Stated Proiect Objectives and Actual Outcomes
1975           1981                1986
Objective               Actual    Planned  Actual    Planned   Actual
1. Reduction of birth
rate                    24.3        23.9     23.1       22.9     15.8
2. Number of contraceptive
users (million)          2           3.1      3.4        3.9      4.7
(1982)       (1985)  (1985)
3. Assisted Delivery Rate (%)
Total                   40.2                 69.4      100       77.2
Urban                   62.5                 82.5      100       86.2
Rural                   18.9                 46.7      100       53.7
4. Reduction in infant
Mortality Rate
(per 1,000 live births) 38                              14       12.5
5. Reduction in Maternal
Mortality Rate
(per 10,000 births)      6.3                  4.1        3.0      3.3
Note:  Actual:   1975 - based on service data in Staff Appraisal Report
Planned: 1981 and 1986: Staff Appraisal Report
Actual:   1981 and 1986: EPB Population and Vital Statistics 1988 and
KIPH Surveys 1981 and 1986



- 37 -
Annex 8
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Annual Operating Outcome of MCH Centers
(Unit: case)
Pre-natal    Delivery       Post-natal      Infant
Year      Opening           care      assistance         care          care
Igta1     89 centers       245.670      50.437          107.299        381.
1983      14 centers         4,740         915              820          9,887
1984      46 centers         9,040       2,460            3,338         10,957
1985      82 centers        31,808       9,049           17,632         67,987
1986      89 centers        91,256      17,987           35,470        118,753
1987      89 centers       108,826      20,026           50,039        173,819
Annual Operating Outcome of 11 PPgK Clinics
MCH                                    FP
Pre-natal   Delivery   Post-natal  Infant Vasec-  Laparo-
Year    care     assistance    care        care    tomy    tomy      IUD     MR.
1985     4,007        879          899       639  31,717   20,612  3,905  16,706
1986    14,471      3,939        5,275    10,350  31,717   22,390  5,496  18,095
1987    12,183      6,493        7,002     7,710  31,042   22,892  8,407  19,354
Number of Cases Referred to CMCH Centers in 1987
(Unit: pers.)
Health        MCH          Private
Total       Center        Center       Clinic
Pregnant        462            23           44           395
Women



- 38 -
Page 1 OF 2
KO-RE
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Annual Production and Distribution of PPFK IEC Materials
Year
1984     1985      1986      1987        Total
Videos        Production           5         7        8         11
31
Distribution      416       392       662      1,217      2,647
Slides        Production           3         2       2-          7
Distribution      190       220       190        145        745
Movies        Production           -         -        -           -          -
Distribution        -        30        28         19         77
Cassettes     Production           -         3        -          2           5
Distribution        -     2,854         -     36,981     39,835



- 39 -
MM 9
Page 2 of 2
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AMnua1 Ograting Outcome of IEC Mobile Van Teams
1984      1985       1986       1987
Category                     Total
EE          Total            75.195    3.750      28.623    20.602    22.220
Vasectomy        12,426      372      4,901      3,583      3,570
Laparotomy      31,619    1,250      11,028      9,707     9,584
IUD              5,752       470      1,884      1,567     1,831
Oral Pill        5,278       337      2,371      1,063     1,507
Condom          10,438       854      4,589      2,003     2,992
XN.R.             9,682      467       3,850     2,629      2,736
MCH         Total            34,2M46    3.713     16.547      5.205     8.781
Counselling     21,311    2,300       9,541      4,264     5,206
Treatment        8,775       893      5,203        933     1,746
Test             1,124         -           -         -     1,124
Immunization    3,036       520      1,803          8       705
IEC         Iotal            16.466    1.669       4.916      4.009     5,872
Panel
discussion      3,967       232      1,167        753     1,815
Street
campaign        7,485    1,003       2,321      1,827     2,334
Campaign         1,102       167         293       323        319
Audio-Visual
materials        3,912      287      1,135      1,106     1,404



- 40 -
Annsext 10
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 EQK
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
International Training Programs Or2anized in Korea for Overseas Particiuants AL
Workshop         Implementing  Dates        Number of       Number of Parti-
Title            Agency                     Countries       cipants
ser.ding
participants
Family Plan-                   17-31 Aug.      12               30
ning and Pro-      KIPH        1987
gram Management                27 June-        10               30
9 July 1988
Community Parti-               31 Aug.
cipation for       PPFK        11 Sept 1987     6               16
Women Managers                 10-22            11              30
Oct. 1988
Family Planning                14-29
IEC Operations     PPFK        Sept. 1989       4               13
25 May           6              11
9 June 1988
aL These courses were funded by the Government and by United Nations
Population Fund.



- 41 -
Annex 11
KOREA
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KOQ
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Mhantes in Vital Statistis and Population Cogosition. 1960-85
Major Indicator              Unit              1960     1970     1980      1985
Total Population           1,000 Persons     25,012   32,241   38,124   41,056
Population Density         Pers/km2             254       319      385      414
Population Growth Rate    1/1,000              28.4      22.2     15.7      12.5
Crude Birth Rate           1/1,000             43.0      32.1     23.4      19.7
Crude Death Rate           1/1,000             15.0       9.4      6.7       6.2
Total Fertility Rate       Pers.                 6.0      4.2      2.8       2.1
Urban                    Pers.                 5.4      3.1      2.5      2.0
Rural                    Pers.                6.7       4.4      3.2      2.3
Child/Woman Ratio                              60.2      59.2     40.5      36.8
Mean Age at Marriage
Male                     Year                25.4      27.1     27.3      27.8
Female                  Year                 21.6      23.3     24.1     24.7
Proportion of Fecund Age  *                    46.9      46.7     52.7      54.5
Women (15-49)
Life Expectancy at Birth
Male                     Year                51.1      59.8     62.7     64.9
Female                  Year                 53.7      66.7     69.1     71.3
Infant Mortality Rate      1/1,000 L. Births     61        55       32        30
Sex Ratio (male/female)   %                   100.7    102.4    101.8    101.7
Age Composition
0-14                                        42.3      42.5     34.0     30.6
15-64                    t                   54.8      54.4     62.2     65.2
65+                      t                    2.9       3.1      3.8      4.2
Dependency Ratio           %                   82.6      83.8     60.7      53.4
Urbanization Ratio         %                    28.0     41.1     57.3      65.4
Proportion of Seoul        %                    9.8      17.6     22.3      23.8
Population to Total
Source:  National Bureau of Statistics, EPB, Population and Housing Census
Rgeorts. 1960-1980, Population Planning Committee, op. cit., 1986.



42 -
Ann ex 12
IKQRE?A
FIRST POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1774-5 KO)
PROJ ECT COMPLETION REPORT
Contraceptive Services through Government-Sunoorted Programs
(Unit: 1,000)
Year     IUD        Vasectomy      Tubectomy      Condom La  Oral Pill La  Total
1962      -             3.4            -            59.4          -          62.8
1963      1.5          19.9            -           129.8          -         151.2
1964    106.4          26.3            -           156.3          -         289.0
1965    226.0          12.8            -           191.7          -         430.5
1966    391.7          19.9            -           168.9          -         580.5
1967    323.4          19.7            -           152.7          -         495.8
1968    263.1          16.0            -           135.2        26.3        440.6
1969    285.5          15.5            -           147.7        91.2        539.9
1970    295.1          17.3            -           163.0       170.5        645.9
1971    293.7          18.6            -           161.2       199.7        673.2
1972    299.9          16.4            3.3         155.6       214.0        689.2
1973    325.9          19.7            4.8         176.0       234.7        761.1
1974    351.6          32.0            5.4         172.7       242.0        803.7
1975    343.9          43.0           14.5         196.7       240.1        838.2
1976    297.9          44.9           35.5         158.1       203.4        739.8
1977    281.8          53.8          181.4         103.2       178.9        799.1
1978    240.9          36.9          193.4         110.9       130.5        712.6
1979    188.7          25.9          195.3          80.7       108.7        599.3
1980    188.4          28.0          179.1          73.7       102.8        572.0
1981    167.2          31.3          164.8          79.0        91.3        533.6
1982    199.1          53.1          233.5         101.6       113.0        700.3
1983    213.1          97.2          329.8         127.3        82.4        819.8
1984    195.4         123.2          255.6         129.7        59.2        763.1
1985    176.9         110.1          217.6         124.9        44.0        673.5
1986    233.1          92.2          220.3         108.3        45.8        700.0
1987    242.5          83.0          211.9         144.2        39.3        720.9
/a  Monthly average condom and oral pill users.
Source: KIPH, Monthly Famill Planning Service Statistics, 1962-86.



- 43 
Attachuene I
*  COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
KOREA INSTITUTE FOR POPULATION AND HEALTH
SAN 43.14 BULaWANG-CONG.. EUNPYUNGU.    eAgLE: LINPONELTN. BSOUL
SEOUL 12a.04M KOREA                 ZL  :a
20 August 1989
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture
Infrastructure and Human
Resources Division
O.E.D. The IWrld Bank
Dear Mr. Donaldson,
Re: Korea-First Population
Project (Loan 1774-5 KO)
Project Completion Report
thank you for your aforerentioned letter asking conuients for your
report draft.
In general, we agree with the contents in your report exqept
following mistakes.
Page 12: 3, 19
14 MCH clinics should be 14 MCH centers.
Page 23:  Annex 1
I                 KIFP Training Facility Total, Droppped should be Dropped.
Page 24: Annex 2 Page 1 of 2
ffi               Kangweon should be spelled as Kangwon.
Choungbuk should be spelle  hoongbuk.
I                 In Kangwon province,
Iksan (not Iksam)    A
Muju                 B (Not N)
Jangsu               B
are not belong to Kangwon but to Cheonbdk Province.
In Cheonbuk Province,
from Koryeong B down to Euisung B (7 centers) are not
belong to Cheonbuk but to Kyeongbuk Province.
The type of Yeongduch MCH Center is B.
.:-re 25: Annex 2 Governrent MCH Centers
From Kumsung A down to Kwangyang B (8 centers) are belong
to Cheonnam Province.



- 44, -
20 August 1989
Page 26: Annex 3
In 1983 performance, the number of Nurse-aid are not 985
but 875.
In 1984 performance, the numrber of Nurse-aid are not 982
but 872.
Page 36: Annex 7
objective nuffber 65 should be 5.
Your continued cooperation would be very much appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
Dal    WC  Ph.D.
Pres   t
c.c.: Director-General
Public Health Bureau
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
Seoul



IBRD 21478
- ussy 1 ~127'                                        1128'                    129-
C    AH I                        DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC                   I
(    .k_                    OF KOREA                         , J   o
OChorwon              ~_-dsiO5ea
tJp   ,-  r8$               1 + 9_    won ft  <~7 Yangsu Om il    2       iK.z>,
.  'yonchon       Hwachon
f - APANr /                                  ,                usn -                                        38'
6Pocho         hurnsong3a-
*Kapyong ,            (~
QUNCHON
,KYONCC                     KANGWON
r   <    wJW   ~~~~~~~~~%           g      ~~~Pvontgchang
123'                  126'                  ,                                engsong
=WUON +              Wonsong
,,            *.n Yongin                                                    0>aeae
0                                        Yongw S  \Ponghwa   Ulchin
- *,osan  Ceonaitor  C ~ChunwonG n                                    37
'r       - agYesan         ONG1U dKYONGBUK
'  on +   Chnon G.
TA\EJONi) ,l    z,  Uisong'g   Chonongdok
Ye//ow   vs$0chon    ChOk honb                Sunsan  '
Ye/low~~~~~~~~Yea
-36'                /J                               Komi  Chilgok             '    .   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~36'
36'       Sea                        o-         03 3 Wanju MujuA           Sogu        E U
Puan CWNBUKcKYONG  >UK
C_angsong   Im.h hnngg
Kochan.+p<r} )NGJU  Ie0   ? o             Us          Y ngsng
*  a  H~Sanu                       3n 
oho ,--IO -Kunwuy\                     aho               i    s'USN3
,>,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Km Kumsonga Hwsu6ag                                     - 
,zi _f CHONNAM(BUKOCh
1.0
HaE-~  Yongam                           a
Xb9 ii          --               LOCATION OF HEALTH FACILITIES
'O-WMdo                COMPLETED UNDER THE PROJECT
'  \                           +~~~~~~~~~~ MCH- Centers(Type A)
_ 34.                                                                            c~, MCH-I Centersi Upe B)             34'
D                           23~~~~~~~ CMCH Centers
3 H NK Centers
-City or Province Boundarles
,- u              -                           0   20  40   60   80 YOg
o 4>    .-                                       KILOMET68S
125'              12~t6'    Ne             127'                    128-                    129'
APRlt t989



