Document of
The World Bank                       FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2653-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
POPULATION PROJECT
November 19, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    = Won
US$1.00          = W 485
W 1.00           =  US$0.00206
W 1 million      =  US$2,062
ABBREVIATIONS
EPB     -  Economic Planning Board
FP      =  Family Planning
GROK    = Government of the Republic of Korea
IEC     =  Information, Education and Communications
IPPF    =  International Planned Parenthood Federation
IUD     -  Intra-Uterine Device
JOC     -  Joint Operational Committee
KDI     =  Korean Development Institute
KHDI    =  Korean Health Development Institute
KIFP    =  Korean Institute for Family Planning
MCH     = Maternal and Child Health
MOHA    - Ministry of Home Affairs
MOHSA   - Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
MWRA    = Married Women of Reproductive Age
OB/GYN  =  Obstetrics/Gynecology
OSROK   =  Office of Supplies, Republic of Korea
PPFK    =  Planned Parenthood Federation of Korea
SIDA    =  Swedish International Development Authority
TB      =  Tuberculosis
UNFPA      United Nation's Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF  -  United Nation's Children's Fund
USAID   =  United States Agency for International Development
WHO     = World Health Organization
WRA     = Women of Reproductive Age
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
POPULATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of Korea
Amount:                    $30 million equivalent
Terms:                      17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest
at 7.95% p.a.
Project
Description:             The project will assist the Government of the
Republic of Korea to reduce fertility over the next
five years, and simultaneously reduce infant and
maternal mortality, particularly in rural areas.
The project has been designed to reach out into
communities with primary care services, particu-
larly maternal and child health and family planning,
identifying those most at risk and referring them
to facilities for more specialized care. The
major components are: (a) improving the delivery
of health and family planning services by streng-
thening and expanding the delivery network;
(b) increasing demand for services by strengthening
aud expanding information, education and communi-
cation activities in health and family planning;
and (c) improving the program's evaluation and
administration capacities. The principal benefi-
ciaries will be mothers and children, primarily in
rural areas, who do not now have access to services.
It is estimated that about 10 million peop,le would
be provided primary health care services tmder the
project thus lowering fertility, mortality, and
morbidity.
The age structure of the population and the lack
of responsiveness of the women, particularly in
rural areas, to the programs proposed could jeo-
pardize the efforts to attain the goals of the
project. Measures under the project such as
the link between better health and family planning
services, the stress on education and information
and in improving the skills of the workers are
likely to mitigate these risks.
This document has a tricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance
of their okcial duties. Its contents maY not otherwise be dined without World Bank authorization.



Project Cost:                                            ---- ($ million) --------
% of
Local  Foreign  Total  Base Cost
Delivery of          33.9    27.0       60.9    86.8
services
Training              4.4      0.8       5.2     7.4
IEC                   1.8      1.2       3.0     4.3
Research and
Evaluation          0.6       -       0.6      0.8
Administration        0.5       - /a    0.5       0.7
Subtotal       41.2    29.0       70.2   100.0
Contingencies
Physical            3.5     2.9       6.4
Price              11.5      5.3     16.8
Total          56.2    37.2       93.4
/a Less than $50,000.
Financing Plan:                                     Local    Foreign        Total
IBRD                      -         30.0        30.0
The Government          56.2         7.2        63.4
Total              56.2        37.2        93.4
Estimated Disbursement
from Bank Loan:                                  ------- ($ million) -------
Bank FY                1981    1982    1983    1984
Annual                  2.2    20.2       7.1      0.5
Cummulative             2.2    22.4    29.5    30.0
Rate of Return:             Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 2664-KO, dated November 16, 1979



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR A POPULATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $30.0 million to help finance
a population project to assist the Government's efforts to reduce fertility
over the next four years, and simultaneously reduce infant and maternal
mortality, particularly in rural areas. The loan will have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.95% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Rapid Growth and Search
for New Perspectives" was distributed under cover of SECM79-390, dated May 24,
1979. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Recent Developments
3.        During 1977 and 1978, the performance of the Korean economy
outstripped on several fronts the targets set out for these years in the
Fourth Five Year Plan (1977-81). In these two years, the growth rate of GNP
was 11.5% per annum (as compared with the annual average of 9.5% postulated
in the Plan), investment in real terms grew at the remarkable rate of 30% per
annum, and the domestic savings rate grew much faster than anticipated in the
Fourth Plan. Per capita income in current dollars, which was at a level of
$700 in 1976, reached nearly $1,250 in 1978.
4.        These developments were accompanied by a rapid transformation in the
employment and poverty situation. The official rate of unemployment declined
to 3.2% (in 1978), nominal wages rose rapidly at about 34% per annum in the
manufacturing sector, and the labor force in agriculture declined at the rate
of about 3.8% per annum in 1977-78. The problems of low productiviLty
employment, surplus labor, and extensive absolute poverty began to recede and
gave way to concerns about labor shortage, particularly of skilled labor.
5.        Exports continued to grow according to the Fourth Plan targets in
spite of an uncertain international environment. In addition to export
growth, the terms of trade continued to improve in 1977 and there iwas a
A This section is identical to the corresponding one in the President's
Report on the Second Gwangju Regional Project (No. P-2615-KO), dated
August 9, 1979, which was distributed under cover of R79-213, dated
August 21, 1979.



- 2 -
spectacular growth in net receipts from overseas construction contracts. In
1978, Korea obtained new construction contracts of about $8 billion in the
Middle East, with gross receipts totalling over $2 billion. As a result of
continued export growth, improvement in the terms of trade, and growth in
receipts from overseas construction contracts, the current account balance
improved ahead of the Fourth Plan schedule and there was a small current
account surplus ($12 million) in 1977. In view of the improved balance of
payments position, and of the need to promote allocative efficiency and to
counter domestic inflationary pressures, the Government initiated in 1978 a
far-reaching program of import liberalization. Korea's access to inter-
national private capital markets improved considerably enabling the repayment,
ahead of schedule, of large amounts of short-term loans incurred on hard terms
during 1974-75 when the economy faced the twin shocks of rapidly rising prices
of its major imports, especially petroleum and foodgrains, as well as the
international recession.
Some Emerging Problems and Long-Term Prospects
6.        The remarkable progress made in the last fifteen years or so has
carried the Korean economy to a new threshold of development, but the new
opportunities have brought with them new challenges. The critical issue
facing the Korean authorities is how to reconcile a high rate of economic
growth with the social and economic objectives of price stability, equity and
a more balanced pattern of urban development.
7.        Price stabilization is one area in which the performance of the
Korean economy has fallen short of the objectives of the Fourth Plan. The
rise in the consumer price index, which was about 10% in 1977, accelerated to
14.9% in 1978; the corresponding increases in the wholesale price index were
9% and 11.7%. It is believed that inflation has been fuelled by the rapid
rise in the rate of investment, which, in turn, has been associated with the
rapid increase in the demand for consumer goods. The installation of some
excess capacity in the heavy and chemical sectors has been cited as a con-
tributory factor, and there is also a widely held view that the emphasis on
exports and growth may, perhaps, have been excessive. The consequences of a
high rate of inflation havebeen widespread: the low-income groups have been
hit particularly hard by the steep increase in the prices of necessities;
the middle-income groups are concerned about the rising cost of housing and
the eroding of the real value of their financial assets. Moreover, rapidly
rising real wages could affect the long-term competitiveness of Korea's
exports.
8.        Though the Government is seriously concerned about the pervasiveness
of inflationary psychology, it feels that, in the long run, growth can be
reconciled with reasonable price stability through the coordinated implementa-
tion of a series of measures. Over the short run, it is expected that the
rise in food prices can be moderated by the import liberalization of food
items, a reform of agricultural price policy, the release of food products
from government stockpiles, and increased domestic production. For fuel and
energy prices, some significant upward adjustments may be both inevitable



-3-
and desirable for energy conservation. In housing, policies for the control
of land speculation and an expansion in the supply of housing have had a
moderating influence. As for industrial products in general, import 'Liberali-
zation is expected to contribute to a reduction in the pace of inflat:Lon in
the short-run, and to play a significant part in maintaining productivity
growth over the longer term. Over the eighties, as the Korean economy becomes
more fully integrated with the international economy, a policy of restrained
monetary expansion combined with fiscal discipline and financial liberali-
zation could play a key role in bringing the Korean rate of inflation in line
with international rates. In April 1979, the Government announced a
stabilization program encompassing a series of initiatives designed to
address these elements of the inflation problem.
9.        Korea's economic development has been widely acclaimed for having
achieved growth with equity. However, by the mid-seventies there was some
concern about the worsening of the distribution of income. The essential
conclusion reached in the 1977 Basic Economic Report nevertheless remains
valid, that a high growth rate is essential if Korea is to achieve the
objectives of greater equity through the creation of additional employment
and the generation of additional public resources to enable the provision of
direct assistance to the poor. However, at the new threshold at which the
Korean economy has arrived, there is the need for a redirection of efforts
towards reconciling growth with equity. In order to achieve a better rural/
urban balance, the Government has reiterated its support of the Saemaeul
Movement, the generation of off-farm employment opportunities and programs to
improve agricultural productivity. It has also announced its intention to
undertake a detailed review of its agricultural price support program,. To
help the poor, the Government is moving to strengthen programs focussed
directly on the target groups and away from the former reliance on general
subsidies, whose effects tend to be relatively diffused.
10.       Since the early sixties, Korea's pace of urbanization has been one
of the highest among medium- and large-sized countries. In the early phases
of its growth process, Korea economized successfully on social and urban
development expenditures. The growing seriousness of the housing shcortage,
for example, is illustrated by the fact that the ratio of housing units to
households declined from 82.5% in 1960 to 74.4% in 1975. With the rapid
growth of household incomes and the concentration of population in major
urban centers, particularly Seoul and Busan, the demand for urban services
is rising rapidly. In addition, environmental deterioration has been accel-
erated by population concentration and the pattern and pace of industrial-
ization. The Government has made a beginning towards meeting these problems
by adopting a two-pronged strategy - a disperal plan to reduce pressures on
Seoul and Busan, and a program to improve housing and transport within these
two cities.



11.       In view of the demonstrated dynamism and resilience of the Korean
economy, it seems reasonable to assume that Korea will be able to tackle its
emerging problems and sustain its rapid growth through the 1980s. The
onb-L_rm projections for Korea, prepared by the Korea Develuojaent li.tituLe
in collaboration with Government agencies, suggest that Korea could attain,
consistent with its social objectives, an average rate of growth of about 10%
per year over the next decade. While the long-term prospects appear to be
promising, the implications of the increased competition from developing
countries in export markets, protectionism in the developed countries, the
technological complexities of Korea's new industries, and labor and raw
material shortages, etc., should not be overlooked. Moreover, it is important
for Korea to develop, in the context of subsequent Five-Year Plans, appro-
priate solutions to avoid the typical pitfalls of affluence experienced by
the developed countries; these include such problems as the dominance of
private automobiles in the transportation system, inefficient use of energy,
costly and inefficient welfare systems and above all, inadequate systems of
industrial readjustment in response to the country's changing comparative
advantage.
Near Term Prospects and External Capital Requirements
12.       In the light of these emerging problems and in the context of the
stabilization program announced in April 1979, the Government has prepared a
new Economic Management Plan (EMP) for 1979-81, revising its projections for
the three remaining years of the Fourth Plan. The EMP expects a slowdown in
the growth rate of real GNP from the 11.5% achieved in 1977-78 to 9.3% per
annum during 1979-81, a deceleration in the growth rate of real exports of
goods and nonfactor services from 22% p.a. to 12% p.a., and in the growth
rate of real investment from 30% p.a. to 13% p.a. The growth rate of imports
is expected to exceed that of exports. Owing to the expected increase in the
cost of imports (especially crude oil and raw materials), the current account
deficit during 1979-81 is estimated to be about $2.5 billion per year.
Allowing for the repayment of past external loans (about $1.1 bilion per
year) and the augmentation of foreign exchange reserves (about $1.3 billion
per year), the total gross requirements of external capital are estimated to
be about $4.5 billion per year during 1979-81. If short-term inflows are to
be limited to about $1 billion per year, gross disbursements of medium- and
long-term capital inflows will have to amount to about $3.5 billion per year.
13.       While Korea is extending its use of commercial financing from the
traditional suppliers and private bank credits to Euro-dollar syndicated loans
and bond issues in the Euro-bond and Asian bond markets, the magnitude of
these external capital requirements is such that it will have to continue to
rely on considerable capital inflows from official sources, including
Eximbanks. It should, however, be emphasized that the higher anticipated
levels of external capital inflow (relative to the Fourth Plan targets) are
a consequence of its higher investment rates rather than a shortfall in the
domestic savings rate. Thus, more than 90% of Korea's investment will
continue to be financed from domestic savings. The ratio of foreign savings



to GNP is expected to decline in the eighties, following the restructuring
and readjustment planned for the next three years.  Servicing of the debt
should not pose difficulties given the present debt service ratio an,i the
prospects for continued export growth, provided that the proportion of
external debt incurred on shorter term and at high interest rates is not
excessive. External debt as a percentage of exports has not increased over
the years, and the level of foreign capital inflows required during 1979-81
seems consistent with a reasonable debt service ratio (of about 12-13% in the
early 1980s) and with continued growth with price stability. It would also
create conditions which would be conducive to the harmonization of growth
with equity.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.       As of September 30, 1979, Korea had received 45 Bank Loans
(including one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $2,526.4 mil-
lion in loans and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account can-
cellations and the refinacing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan).
As of that date,   $947.8 million of the total Bank lending remained
undisbursed on effective Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the
past two years. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA
Credits, and IFC Investments as of that date and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. As indicated in the notes, progress on project
implementation is generally satisfactory.
15.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea had been directed towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to
secure the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in
sustaining a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-
oriented industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure
bottlenecks; and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural
and rural development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of
the fruits of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of
life in the rural areas.
16.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's three major development
banks. The Korea Development Finance Corporation has received $320.0 million,
the Korea Development Bank $252.5 million and the Small and Medium Industry
Bank $145 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry. The
primary beneficiaries of these loans have not been the development banks,
but the industrial enterprises, ranging from large ventures to small ones,
which have been provided with financing through the financial intermediaries.
This has resulted not only in the overall development of the industrial
sector, but has also contributed to the achievement of institutional improve-
ments and of the Government's objective of decentralizing industry. The loan
of $80 million for a Heavy Machinery Project was intended to assist in
achieving the structural shift to more skill-intensive industries, which is
necessary to ensure the long-term viability of Korea's export strategy. A
recently approved loan of $29 million by the Bank would stimulate and support
the development of technological capabilities in the Korean electronics
industry.



- 6 -
17.       As  .crea's economy continued to grow and the pace of industriali-
zation has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of transport
facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the Government's
efforts to -modernize and expand the transport sector dating back to 1962, has
played an important role in these developments. Some $340 million has been
provided for six railway projects designed to increase the railroad's capacity
and improve its operations; four loans totalling $334.5 million have been made
for highway construction and paving of high priority sections of the national
network and for a countrywide maintenance organization; and two loans amount-
ing to $147 million have been provided for the expansion of port facilities
at Busan, the premier port, and Mugho, primarily for improving coal handling
facilities.
18.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together,
these projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs within
agriculture, fisheries, industry and services.
19.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past fifteen years have seen agri-
cultural output grow at about 4% per annum, which has resulted in the
country's becoming near self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made
possible a steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the
40% of Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on
agrarian pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million
for the improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and
the provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas. Recently a $125 million loan was provided by the Bank
to help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation
water in the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood
damage; and generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for
Korea's power system.
20.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975 (Loan 1070-KO), has proved
successful.  The project was designed to support the Government's policy by
financing high priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural,
southwest region. A loan of $65 million for a second project for the devel-
opment of the region was approved by the Executive Directors on September 11,
1979.



- 7 -
21.       Exci>>ing orie project that was cancelled subsequently, IFC had, by
September 30, 1J79, entered into 24 commitments, totalling $68.1 million (net
of participat .L,s and cancellations). Korea's industrial development:
programs havu required large capital expenditures in the private sect:or, a
situation which has enabled a substantially enhanced IFC presence in the
past few years.
22.       A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea Ls to
provide assistance in sustaining the growth momentum and in addressing the
emerging issues which the Korean economy is facing. The basic issue is
whether Korea can deepen and diversify its industrial structure to the extent
necessary to ensure the attainment of its export targets. Lending to industry
will be diversified by the provision of a loan to the Citizens National Bank
in support of the small enterprises as well as a loan for a second machinery
project, which will provide financial and technical assistance to small- and
medium-scale machinery industries.  It will also be necessary to introduce
RD&E programs which are better adapted to the technological needs of
industrial development. In addition to the loan for the Electronics Techno-
logy Project which was approved on March 22, 1979, a loan for the technologi-
cal development of technology-intensive industries is envisaged in the lending
program.
23.       Korea's industrialization program, which calls for entering into
more complex fields of manufacturing than hitherto, will require increasingly
high levels of technical competence on the part of its labor force. A loan
to modernize and expand the system of higher technical education so as to
increase its flexibility and responsiveness to the changing requirements of
the economy is, therefore, proposed.
24.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by the
diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector and
through nationwide development programs. Projects are envisaged for land/
water resource development, for agricultural credit, marketing and processing
and for the further development of rural infrastructure and facilities in
selected provincial areas, which would enhance incomes and quality of life
in the lesser developed regions of the country and would have a significant
impact on the problem of migration to the major metropolitan areas.
25.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large and, thus, there is consider-
able support for this sector in the proposed lending program.
26.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt disbursed
and outstanding at the end of 1978 was about 10%, and its share of debt ser-
vice was of the order of 6% at that time. These ratios are expected to
increase to around 13% and 7%, respectively, by the mid-eighties.



- u -
PART III - THE POPULATION SECTOR
27.       The Korean family plannirng program has been acclaimed jusc)'-ciably
as one of the most successful.  Between 1960 and 1976, <ve total fertility
rate in Korea declined from about 6.3 to about 3.2 chil1-r. per WomEs with
about 60% of this decline being due to changes in marit   fertility, -tri-
butable primarily to the increased prac Ace of contraception and abortion;
about 3.5 million births were averted during the fifteen year period, half
by contraception and half by abortion. As a result, the population growth
rate declined from 3.0% in 1960 to 1.7% at present.
28.       Despite these impressive achievements, the family planning program
in Korea needs to be strengthened and made more effective for four basic
reasons: the already high density of population; the difficulties in reducing
fertility further; the trend toward higher birth rates; and the consequences
of population growth for the economy. Except for Bangladesh and a few city-
states, Korea is the most densely populated country in the world, with about
1,650 persons per sq km of agricultural land. If its population continues
to grow at the current rate of 1.7% a year, it will increase from about 37
million at present to 53 million by the end of the century. The longer-term
outlook is also a cause for concern because, even assuminig that a net repro-
duction rate equal to one could be achieved by 1985, Korea's population would
more than double by the middle of the next century.
29.        Furthermore, fertility in Korea has declkned t.o a level where it
will be increasingly difficult to effect further reductions making the Govern-
ment's objective of reducing fertility to replacement levels a task of
formidable proportions.  During tne 1960s, fertility was so high that reduc-
tions could be effected with moderate program effort and socioeconomic devel-
opment. This situation no longer obtains and the problems facing the Korean
authorities in regard to the control of population growth are becoming
increasingly more difficult of solution. There is already evidence that a
plateau has been reached in the acceptance of effective methods of contracep-
tion; the drop-out rates among users of pilPs and TUDs are relatively high
compared with those in other countries.
30.       This trend is particularly disturbing since the Korean population
has a built-in momentum for further rapid growth.  It is "young" with a
median age of 18, and females born immediately after the Korean War are now
entering their childbearing years. The problem is compounded by the con-
tinuing strong son preference which inhibits the achievement of the goal of
the family planning program, as expressed in the slogan "stop at two." This
derives from the traditional family system which, based on Confucian
concepts, is still strongly patriarchal and patrimonial.
31.       If fertility is not reduced, the birth rate is likely to increase
again in the near future because of the increase in the proportion of women
of reproductive age in the population anid an increasing tendency towards
earlier marriages, perhaps due to greater prosperity. This could have a
serious impact on Korea's socioeconomic situation and jeopardize the Govern-



ment's efforts to deal with the emerging problems of urban congestion, of
achieving an even more equitable distribution of the fruits of growt:h, and
of ensuring an enhanced standard of living for the Korean people at large.
It has been estimated, for instance, that even if the Government's objectives
of restraining population growth could be achieved, about 5-7% of GNP would
have to be expended in order merely to maintain the present standard .f living
for the added population in the mid-eighties.  The proposed project has been
designed to support both Government and private agencies in strengthening,
reinforcing and broadening their activities so as to make them more effective
in meeting these challenging tasks.
Demographic and Health Trends
32.       The population of the Republic of Korea increased from about
17 million in 1945 to about 37.3 million in mid-1979, or at an average annual
growth rate of 2.3%. After the Korean War, the baby boom and a rapidly
declining mortality rate caused the annual rate of growth to increase to about
3% during the period 1955-1960. Since then the decline in the birt]n rate
has been larger than the decline in the death rate. The crude birt]h rate
fell from about 45 births per thousand to about 24 births per thousand,
while the crude death rate fell from about 15 deaths per thousand to about 7
deaths per thousand. Migration fluctuated widely during this period, but at
present has little effect on the rate of population growth.
33.       The total fertility rate, which fell sharply between 1960 and 1966
from 6.3 to 4.8 children per woman, declined less markedly between 1966 and
1975 from 4.8 to 3.5. Moreover, people are living longer: from 1960 to
1978, life expectancy at birth rose from about 56 to about 66 years, and
infant mortality fell from about 60 deaths per thousand live births to 38.
34.       Despite substantial health improvements in recent years, it would
appear that there is a substantial incidence of easily controllable morbidity
and mortality. The main causes underlying this situation are the inadequate
immunization, screening and treatment systems and the poor water supply and
sanitation facilities. The most urgent need in the health field is to provide
improved services for preventive health, family planning and primary care
for the low-income groups in the rural areas, at a cost that is affordable.
Population and Health Policies
35.       Korea's population policy has evolved into a comprehensive one
covering family planning, emigration, geographical distribution and incen-
tives to lower fertility, supporting both public and private efforts and
encouraging the utilization of available medical resources. During the
latter half of the 1950s, census and economic data indicating that fertility
was high and offsetting the effects of economic growth fueled a debate as
to the consequences of rapid population growth for economic development.  In
1962, the Government formally adopted a family planning program with the
target of reducing the annual rate of growth of the population from 2.9% to
2.0% by 1966. Family planning services were at first available only in
urban clinics and the choice of contraceptive methods was limited (condoms,



- 10 -
foam and vasectomy). In 1964, family planning workers were assigned to all
health subcenters in rural areas; mobile teams were set up to cover remote
areas; and the IUD was offered as an alternative method. In 1966, the
Government began to offer financial incentives to users.  In 1968, mothers'
clubs were organized to promote family planning and to supply contraceptives,
and the oral pill was made available. The Maternal and Child Health Law of
1973 broadened the medical justification for abortions. Female steriliza-
tion was made available in 1974. In 1976, the Government established a
Population Policy Coodinating Committee under the chairmanship of the Deputy
Prime Minister. Among the measures promoted by this Committee were popula-
tion education programs for adults and out-of-school youth, tax exemptions
for small families, priority in public housing and financial assistance for
sterilized persons, and legal changes which allow women to be heads of
household and to inherit property. Complementary international and internal
migration policies were also adopted.
36.       A comprehensive health policy has not yet evolved.  A Bureau
of Public Health, now the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MOHSA), was
set up after the Second World War.  First, the efforts were directed at
urban areas and curative care, building hospitals and introducing sanitary
regulations for foods, drugs and public facilities. It was not until the
Health Center Law of 1962 was passed, that efforts were made to provide
health services for the rural population. Home visiting services were
established to provide family planning, tuberculosis surveillance and,
later, maternal and child health care, and led to the setting up of health
subcenters to cover remote areas and to serve as the headquarters for the
fieldworkers. Partly to correct the maldistribution of medical personnel,
the Government now offers incentives in the form of tax exemptions and low
interest loans to physicians who practice in underdeveloped areas. The
Social Security Law enacted in 1963 and the Medical Insurance Law enacted in
1976 provided assistance to employees, self-employed persons, those unable
to pay and the unemployed. The Maternal and Child Health Law of 1973 was
intended to fill a serious gap in the system by establishing better maternal
and child health services and extended the medical grounds for legal abor-
tion. In 1975, the Government established the Korean Health Development
Institute (KHDI) to carry out research on the development of health delivery
systems, the implementation and evaluation of demonstration projects and the
demand for and supply of health services. Although these laws have signifi-
cantly improved health care, services are still concentrated in urban areas;
some of the facilities are underutilized; curative rather than preventive
care is emphasized; and there is no ongoing health education program to
encourage people to utilize the services available. The Fourth Five Year
Development Plan (1977-1981) recognizes these problems and has set objectives
to remedy them.
Program Development
37.       If the planned population growth path is to be followed, family
planning services must be made more effective and accessible, and more
emphasis must be laid on integrating services closely with other social



- 11 -
programs and 011 incentives toward smaller families.  Improved access to
services would require a greater number of facilities, better training of
personnel, better distribution of time among fieldworkers so they can reach
more people, fewer constraints to clinic visits, establishment of priorities
among population target groups to be visited by workers, and better
Information, Education and Communications (IEC) activities to increase
knowledge about facilities and motivate clients to visit them.
38.        Services of family planning workers could be made more effective
through better training, better allocation of their time, redirection of their
efforts toward the groups in the population with the most need, changes in the
target system, reduced turnover of workers and better IEC. Most field
workers are nurse-aides who have training sufficient only to do some motiva-
tional work, to supply clients with oral contraceptives, condoms and other
methods and to refer clients to health centers for IUD insertion or sterili-
zation. They are not qualified to provide elementary health services or to
deal with side effects of contraceptive usage. Each worker has to cover a
population of about 10,000 to 13,000 people dispersed in rural areas, so that
a high proportion of the working time is spent in travelling. Under the
present target system, workers confine their visits to the people who are
most likely to accept family planning services - those with many children and
past users - and pay too little attention to the young married couples with
few or no children, who offer the greatest potential for delaying and avert-
ing births. The existing target system encourages workers to recommend
methods in which they are short of the target rather than those preferred by
the clients. The high turnover of workers, now estimated at about 30% per
year, due at least in part to the fact that their jobs are temporary, poorly
paid and have little prestige, wastes training and lowers their effectiveness.
Improved IEC is also needed to improve effectiveness and to change! the pref-
erence for male children which is highest among uneducated women, those
residing in rural areas and of low economic status.  Unfounded rumiors about
the side effects of contraceptives and low continuation rates among well
motivated couples could be reduced by better interpersonal and mass communica-
tion.
39.        Integration of family planning and health services, particularly
maternal and child health, would be most beneficial, since the skills
required for family planning and maternal and child health services are
related and people develop a trust in health workers which helps to make
their family planning advice acceptable. Existing unipurpose workers,
retrained as multipurpose health workers, could provide more serviLces,
covering an area one third the size they currently serve. Health facilities
in rural areas could provide post partum family planning for mothers.
Mothers' clubs, an existing outlet for family planning information and
contraceptives, have been merged successfully with the women's clubs of the
Saemaul Movement. Family planning services are also being combined with the
health services provided for military personnel, industrial and government
workers.



Financing
40.        Since its inception, the national family planning progrLr has
spent about W 41 billion ($102 million).  The bulk of this financing hea
come from domestic sources, a clear indication of the importance the
Government places on the program.  Foreign aid has been provided in the form
of funds, technical assistance and supplies since the beginninrg of the
program, and has come from the International Planned Paren hood Federatici
(IPPF), the Population Council, the United States Agency for Interniational
Development (USAID), the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA),
the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) and the World
Health Organization (WHO).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal of a Population Project"
(No. 2664-KO, dated November 16, 1979) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.   Negotiations were
held in Washington from October 31 to November 5, 1979, with a Korean
delegation led by Mr. Sung Yong Wei, Economic Counselor, Emnbassy of the
Republic of Korea.
Project Concept
42.       This project is designed to assist Korea in 11ts efforts to reduce
the rate of growth of population and, at the same time, redutce maternal,
infant and child mortality and morbidity. Essential to proiect design is the
outreach of service delivery into the community, utilizing the "at risk"
approach, which provides special attention for those in need within the frame-
work of improved health care for all   The project is based on the premises
that: a reduction of infant mortality will reduce fertility; there are
advantages in delivering family planning services in conjuction with health
services, especially maternal and child health services; and there is a higher
rate of contraceptive practice among women who receive instruction in nutri-
tion and family planning in day care centers where they enroll their children.
The project design also takes into account the need to make these services
more effective and accessible, and the need to integrate family planning
services with other sociai services. The project has been designed to
increase the supply of services and to improve the demand for those services.
43.        To reach the Government's objective of reducing the birth rate from
24.3 in 1976 to 23.9 by 1981, and 22.9 by 1986, it is necessary to increase
the number of current users of contraceptives from 2.0 million in 1976 to
3.1 million in 1981 and 3.9 million in 1986. The number of births to be
averted annually has to increase from 0.4 million in 1975 to 0.7 million in
1981 and 0.8 million in 1986. The project will also help to increase the rate
of deliveries attended by medical personnel from the present 40% to 86% in
1982 and 100% in 1986; to reduce maternal mortality from 6.3 deaths per
10,000 births in 1975 to 3.0 in 1986; and to reduce infant mortality from
38 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1976 to 14 in 1986. These objectives will
be difficult to achieve, but given the strong commitment of the Government,
their realization is feasible.



- 13 -
Project Description
44.       The project includes:
(a) strengthening and expanding the health care and family planning
delivery system by:
(i)  converting unipurpose field workers into multipurpose workers
and utilizing the "at risk" approach to MCH care;
(ii) constructing, furnishing and equipping 91 MCH/FP centers in
rural areas and 11 family planning clinics in low income
urban areas; day care centers will be attached to each of
68 of the new MCH/FP centers; and
(iii)  providing 13 new mobile family planning units for services
and IEC and 68 4-wheel drive vehicles for the tran,sport of
"at risk" patients.
(b) strengthening and expanding the training of health and family
planning staff by:
(i)  constructing, furnishing and equipping additional training
facilities at the KIFP;
(ii)  providing incremental costs for training (a) unipurpose and
new workers as multipurpose workers and in midwifery;
(b) personnel from other agencies in family plann:ing; and
(c) IEC personnel in comunication techniques and equipment
maintenance;
(iii) providing vehicles for transport of students and instructors;
and
(iv) providing incremental costs for the production of teaching
materials.
(c) strengthening and expanding information, education and communication
(IEC) activities in health and family planning by:
(i)  providing IEC equipment to MCH/FP centers, health centers,
hospitals, mobile clinics and family planning clinics for
health and family planning education programs;
(ii) providing equipment for the production of IEC materials;
(iii) providing salary support for additional IEC production
personnel at both MOHSA and PPFK;
(iv)  construction, furnishing and equipping additional office and
production space for the increased IEC activities at PPFK; and
(v)  providing funds for the production of IEC materials.
(d) strengthening and expanding evaluation and research by: providing
funds for evaluation of the midwifery training and MCH family



- 14 -
planning activities and for the setting up a reporting system at
the MCH/FP centers.
(e) strengthening project implementation capacity by:providing M4OHSA
with funds for additional staff, equipment, vehicles and other
administrative expenditures to plan, execute and supervise project
activities.
Implementation
45.       The Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Division of the Bureau of MCH
in MOHSA will be the managing agency for the project.  It will:  (a) define
the policies and procedures to be followed in the execution of the project;
(b) prepare a program for the execution of the activities by the different
agencies; (c) issue guidelines for project implementation; (d) coordinate
the activities of the different agencies, (e) monitor the progress of the
project and submit quarterly progress reports to the Bank; (f) enter into
contracts as necessary for the execution of the project; (g) establish an
accounting system and maintain the accounts of the project; and (h) autho-
rize payments to contractors. The Director General of the Bureau of NCH at
MOHSA will be the Project Director and the Director of the Maternal and
Child Health Division of that Bureau will be Executive Project Director. In
addition, the MCH Division of the Bureau of MCH at MOHSA will be strength-
ened under the project by the appointment of a construction coordinator, an
IEC coordinator and an accountant. A Project Advisory Committee, comprised
of the Director of KIFP, the Secretary General of PPFK, and the repre-
sentatives of universities, KDI, KHDI and MOHSA will be set up to advise the
Project Director.  It has been agreed that, by March 1, 1980, the Government
will appoint and activate this Committee (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
46.       For the proper implementation of the project it will be necessary
that the present unipurpose field workers be converted into multipurpose
workers trained in midwifery, and their present temporary appointments be
changed to reduce the high turnover rate (30% per year) among those workers
(Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement and a letter supplemental to the
draft Loan Agreement). MOHSA, as well as PPFK, will need to acquire sites
which are satisfactory in location as well as in size for the construction
of MCH/FP centers and family planning clinics (Section 3.05 of the draft
Loan Agreement). Furthermore, vehicles have to be used and maintained
properly so that they can provide the services for which they are included
in the project. A monitoring system for use and maintenance of vehicles is
therefore required (Section 3.13 of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       MOHSA will coordinate project IEC activities, and will delegate
some responsibilities to PPFK. It will be responsible for the midwifery
training of multipurpose workers and, in conjunction with the universities
and hospitals, will prepare detailed programs for this training and enter
into contracts with universities and other insitutions to carry out the
theoretical and practical portions of the program and supervise that
training. MOHSA will invite proposals from public and private research



-15 -
groups to carry out the research included in the project, award contracts
and monitor their execution.  It was agreed that the Government will enter
into contracts with universities and hospitals for the midwifery training
and will invite proposals from qualified institutions to carry out the above
research (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       KIFP will be responsible for the family planning training comr-
ponent of the project, except for the midwifery training, and will prepare
detailed training plans, giving priority to the conversion of community
health workers into multipurpose workers. In coordination with MOHSA, KIFP
will prepare and carry out the training programs, and in collaboration with
PPFK, it will provide IEC training for about 400 persons from the various
health facilities. The Director of KIFP will report on progress of these
activities to the Project Director.
49.       PPFK would be the agency responsible for IEC in family planning.
As PPFK is a voluntary non-profit organization, it was agreed that the
Government will issue an Executive Order relating to PPFK's obligations and
functions under the project (Section 3.14 of the draft Loan Agreement).
PPFK will then have the following duties: (a) design, produce and dlistri-
bute family planning IEC materials; (b) produce health IEC materials for
NOHSA (c) pretest, test and evaluate health IEC materials in collaboration
with MOHSA; and (d) in collaboration with KIFP, train health personnel in
the use of IEC equipment and materials and in basic program techniques as
well as equipment maintenance.
50.       Construction of physical facilities will be the responsibility of
the provincial governments, PPFK and KIFP under the direction of MOHSA.
MOHSA, KIFP, PPFK and the provincial governments will prepare prelimninary
lists and specifications of furniture, equipnent and vehicles for the approval
of the Project Director. The final lists and specifications will then be sent
to the Office of Supplies, Republic of Korea (OSROK), which will invite
tenders, evaluate bids, award contracts and receive and distribute the
furniture, equipment and vehicles. Each MCH/FP center will operate under the
direction of the Director of the Health Center to which it is attached.
Within the MCH/FP center itself, the senior midwife will be in charge.
51.       In order to ensure some community participation in the operation of
MCH/FP centers, the Government is proposing to set up for each center a Joint
Operational Committee (JOC) consisting of the Director of the Health Center,
the senior midwife of the MCH/FP Center, a local physician, the leader of
the Saemaul Movement in the comnunity and a representative of the comnanity.
This should contribute to a fuller utilization of the centers. It was
agreed that, by June 30, 1981, the Government will prepare, for the! Bank's
comments, guidelines for the establishment and functioning of those! JOCS
(Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
52.       The project provides for the appointment of an accountant: who will
be attached to the accounting section of the Bureau of MCH at MOHSA. This
accountant will set up an accounting system, maintain the accounts, prepare



- 16 -
disbursement requests to the Bank, have them approved by authorized officials
in MIOHSA and sent to the Ministry of Finance for approval and transmittal to
the Bank. The accounts will be subject to standard Government auditing
procedures and will be open for inspection by the Bank.
Monitoring and Evaluation
53.       Progress in achieving targets will be measured against quantitative
indicators of services provided.  These indicators are the goals of the
Government for the program, but they are not yet defined in detail. It was
agreed that MOHSA would prepare, by June 1, 1980, a detailed list of such
indicators (Section 3.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). To facilitate
Bank monitoring of project implementation, the provincial governments as
well as KIFP and PPFK will submit to the Project Director quarterly reports
giving, for each component, the physical status, expenditure and
performance. The Project Director will prepare his own report in regard to
project activities to be implemented by MOHSA. On the basis of these
reports, the Project Director will prepare a summary report to be sent to
the Bank. The detail reports from executing agencies would be available in
Korea for review by supervision missions.
Cost Estimates
54.       The total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
$93.4 million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at $37.2 million
or about 40% of total project cost. Capital investment accounts for about 91%
of the base cost; the incremental operating cost of the project for
training, IEC, research and evaluation and project management account for
the rest. The largest share (87%) of the base cost is to be allocated to
the expansion and improvement of health and family planning services. About
7% of base cost is to be allocated to training; 4% to IEC and less than 1%
each to research and evaluation and to project administration. The
contingency allowance of $23 million includes: (a) physical contingencies,
estimated at 10% of base civil works costs, furniture, equipment and
professional fees; and (b) prlce contingencies estimated at about 22% of the
base cost plus physical contingencies. Price contingencies were calculated
on the basis of the project expenditure schedule and of an assumed rate of
foreign price increase of 7% a year for civil works and 6% a year for other
items and a rate of local price increases of 14% in the first half of 1979,
10% in the second half of 1979, 9% in 1980 and 8% thereafter.
Incremental Recurrent Cost
55.       In addition to the small incremental recurrent costs included in the
cost of the project, there are incremental recurrent costs associated with
the operation of the facilities to be built under the project. These costs
amount to about $33 million for the period 1980-1983. In the last year of the
project, 1983,they will be equivalent to 13.3% of the 1979 central government
health budget, or about 7% of the total central and provincial health budgets.



- 17 -
It was agreed that the Government will meet all incremental operating expen-
aitures arising from the project (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Financing
56.       The total project cost ($93.4 million) is to be financed by the
proposed loan of $30.0 million equivalent and a Government contribution of
$63.4 million equivalent. The Bank loan will finance part of the foreign
exchange component of the project, while the Government will finance the
rest of the foreign exchange as well as the local costs.
Procurement
57.       Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of compe-
titive bidding following domestic advertising under procedures satisfactory
to the Bank. Foreign contractors would be allowed to participate. However,
as Korea's construction industry is large and efficient, and the civil works
under the project would cover a number of small buildings widely scattered
around the country, it is unlikely that they would be of interest to foreign
contractors. Prequalification would be required for civil works. Contracts
for goods of $100,000 equivalent and over, except those for certain special
equipment, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines; domestic manufacturers would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15% or the existing customs duty, whichever
is the lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing imports. Specia]L video-
tape equipment, costing not more than $500,000 equivalent, will be obtained
directly from the producers of the equipment already in use in order not to
lose the advantages of standardization. Equipment and vehicle purchases
that cannot reasonably be grouped to form contracts for at least $100,000
equivalent would be awarded without prior Bank approval on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, following Government procedures that
are satisfactory to the Bank, provided that the aggregate of all such
contracts shall not exceed $1,000,000 equivalent. In addition, off-the-shelf
items, notexceeding $10,000 equivalent in each contract and aggregating not
more than $500,000 equivalent would be purchased on the basis of the minimum
of three quotations.
Disbursements
58.       The proposed loan would be disbursed to meet:  (a) 32% of the
cost of civil works; (b) 43% of the cost of furniture; (c) 100% of the
c.i.f. costs of directly imported equipment, vehicles and materials; (d)
100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment and vehicles;
(e) 65% of the cost of other locally procured equipment, vehicles and
materials; and (f) 100% of the cost of training abroad.
Benefits and Risks
59.       It is impossible to calculate precisely the direct contribution the
project is likely to make to the reduction in fertility or to the reduction of
maternal, infant and child mortality and morbidity. The project Nould,



- 18 -
however, help the Government make family planning services more accessible
through the creation of new MCH/FP centers and family planning clinics to
increase their effectiveness through the conversion of TB, HICH and FP workers
into multipurpose workers each covering a smaller area than at present; and
to promote the demand for such services by increasing the amount and quality
of IEC activities. By providing population and health education to mothers
in day care centers, it would be easier to influence rural women to adopt new
attitudes towards family health. The project would help to increase the
proportion of deliveries attended by qualified personnel either at home or in
MCH/FP centers. The conversion of community health workers into multipurpose
workers would make possible better pre- and postnatal care and better care for
infants and children. By the end of the project period, the 2fCH centers
should be able to handle about 150,000 births a year or about 30% of the
number of births in rural areas. In addition, the multipurpose workers would
have the capacity to help in about 200,000 deliveries at home. This compares
with direct attendance for only about 27,000 births at present. The services
provided by these workers would include, in addition to delivery, pre- and
postnatal services and the screening of at-risk mothers for reference to MCH
facilities. Infant care, family planning services and TB control would reach
at least 50% of the rural population. It is estimated that about 10 million
people would be provided primary health care services under the project.
By helping the Government achieve its objectives of reducing the rate of
growth of population, the project would help slow down the pressures on land
resources, reduce the rate at which new jobs must be created and permit a
higher rate of increase in per capita income. It should also facilitate the
improvement in income distribution.
60.       In spite of the shift of emphasis to methods with higher use
effectiveness and the wider dispersal of family planning and health services
envisioned under the proposed project, the age structure of the population and
the lack of responsiveness of the women, particularly in the rural areas, to
the programs proposed could jeopardize the efforts to attain the goals of the
programs. However, the measures that are to be implemented under the project
such as the link between health and family planning services, the stress on
family planning education and information, and the emphasis on the rural areas
and on improving the skills of field workers, together with high literacy
levels and rising incomes, are likely to mitigate these risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The draft Loan Agreement follows the pattern
of Bank Agreements for loans of this kind. In addition to the features of
the Loan Agreement which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III
of Annex III, it is a condition of effectiveness that the Government will
issue an Executive Order relating to PPFK's obligations and functions in
the implementation of the project (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
62.        1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposetd loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
November 19, 1979



-20o-                                                             Annex I
Page     Page  1  of
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJIUSTED AyERAC-ES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                   KOREA REPUBLIC OF                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL              98.5                                                    SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       22.6                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCO11E
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb       REGION 'c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   120.0       300.0      820.0            450.6      926.1       1748.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      258.0        815.0    1020.0            371.1       73 .        1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      24.7         31.4       36.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.9          41.2       49.0             27.4       49.0         51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        49.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          64.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       251.0        319.0     365.0            154.8        44.6         28.2
PER SQ. RM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1154.0        1371.0    1593.0            566.7       140.7        100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.9         41.0       37.0            41.3        41.3         35.4
15-64 YRS.                          53.8         55.7      60.0             54.9        55.3         56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.3          3.3        3.0              3.3        3.5          5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.9         2.4        2.C              2.4        2.4          1.7
URBAN                                5.9         6.4        5.4              4.3        4.5          3.0
CRUDE BIRTII RATE (PER THOUSAND)      41.0        30.0      24.0              30.2       31.1         27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       13.0        10.0        8.0              8.3        9.2          9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.1/f       2.6        1.4              2.1        2.2          1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       672.0      686.0
UISERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         42.0      43.9             34.1        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           80.8         99.0      117.0           106.2       104.4        102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    85.0        114.0      112.0           104.1       105.0        120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           53.0         65.0       75.7            57.4        64.4         80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         13.0/g      19.0       16.3             16.9       23.5         31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       13.0         8.0        5.0              4.8        8.6          5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.0          59.0       63.0             61.1       60.2         65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            62.0         43.0       37.0            46.6        46.7         45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENlT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        58.0       62.0             21.9       60.8         69.4
URBAN                                ..         84.0      80.0             46.2        75.7         85.1
RURAL                                 ..        38.0       36.0            12.8        40.0         43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        25.0       61.0             28.4       46.0         70.1
URBAN                                           59.0       68.0             65.0       46.0         88.3
RURAL                                                        . 500          14.7       22.5         33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           3000.0       2110.0    1677.0           3790.5      2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3220.0/h    2170.0/h   517.0             1107.4     1195.4        765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2510.0       1900.0    1430.0             613.3      453.4        197.6
URBAN                                ..           ..      340.0           203.6       253.1        260.2
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..           1110.3     2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        14.9         ..             23.9       22.1         17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.6         5.3        5.1              5.2        5.3          4.7
URBAN                               5.4          5.0        4.9              ..         5.2          4.4
RURAL                               5.6          5.5        5.3              ..         5.4          5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.5         2.3         ..               ..        1.9          1.1
URBAN                                2.8         2.7         ..               ..         1.6         1.2
RURAL                                2.4         2.2         ..               ..        2.5          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               28.0        49.9         ..               ..       50.0         66.0
URBAN                               67.3        92.4         ..               ..       71.7         85.1
RUNAL                               12.0        29.9       64.9               ..       17.3



-21-                                                           Annex I
e 2 Page 2 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REUBLIC OF    REFERENCE GROUPS (AD1JUSTED AyERJAGES
KOREA REPUBLIC OF              - MOST RECENT  SIMATE) l
SAME        SAME      NEXT H130113
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCCIME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP Ld    GRCOUP /
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  94.0        105.0     109.0             97.9       102.5        101.7
MALE                  99.0        106.0      109.0             98.7       108.6       110.0
FEMALE                89.0        105.0      109.0             97.4       97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  27.0         43.0      63.0             42.2        33.5         51.2
MALE                  38.0         52.0       71.0             46.7       38.4         56.4
FEMALE                14.0         34.0      54.0             4O.9        30.7         43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t OF SECONDARY)  14.0           16.0       16.0             12.5       11.5         18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.0         57.0      49.0             32.5        35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                           34.0         37.0      38.0             25.8        22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         70.6         78.0       91.0             84.1        64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4          2.0       2.7              6.1        13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          32.0        126.0     144.0             84.4       122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3         13.0      48.0             22.4        38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ('"DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   69.0        138.0     173.0             24.2        40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            5.0       2.2               3.6        3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       7500.0      10200.0   13061.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    25.8        32.7       32.8             36.7        25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.4         51.0      44.6             54.6        43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.3        20.1       33.0             16.3        21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.4         35.0      36.6             40.7        33.5         33.8
MALE                                  49.5         46.8      48.8              49.9       48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                17.2         23.0      24.2              31.0       16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.4        1.1              1.1         1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1/i         17.1      16.1             14.9        20.8
NIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.37?         44.5      45.3             46.8        52.1         57.5
LDWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.77           7.1       5.7              6.2         3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.07?         17.7      16.9             16.8        12.6         11.)
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     220.0            193.1       270.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..            128.7       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ,.     194.0            136.8       282.5        550.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..             96.8       248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       9.0             32.0        20.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..             52.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries amonig the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita. 1976);   le  Upper Middle
Income ($1136-$2500 per capita, 1976);   If  1950-55;   /g  1962;   /h  Registered, not all practising
in the country;  /L  1965.
May, 1979



Annex I
-22-                                                                         Page 3 of 5
DEFINIIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATCRS                                                    Page 1
:    lhe adjusted group averages for each ihdicator are population-weighted geometric mea-s, eeo'lding the extreme values of the indicator and the nest
pepulatod coo. try iS  each group.  Coverage of tountries among  e  indicators depends on availability cf data and is eot ueifonr..  Due to lack of data,
group uvetages foe Capital Surplus Oil Exporte.s and .ndicators of .cocos to water acd exoreta diuposal, hoasing, income diutribution and poverty are
siople popuhatio-weighted geometric means without the ecnusion of estrems values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kmv)                                                            Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and troal - Population (total,
Total - otal surface area comprising lend area and inland waters.                        arbam, and rural) divided by tbeir respective number of hospital bedu
Agricultural - Most receot estimate of agricaltural area used temporarily                available in public and privete general and specialized hbspital and ne-
or permanently for cropo, paut-res, market and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitation  -eoter-.  fospitals are esrablishments per -anently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                               leaso   pbpaiclid .  Establishmen.rtas providing principally custodial
care are not 1o-loded. Rural bospitals. beweve, iniolde health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (USt) - GNP per cupira sestmates at current mabket prices,                 cel -enenro net permanently stoffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculoted by sane conversion nethod as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);             sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.)  bhioh offer in-patient u-cnmodntion and
196C, 1971, and 1977 data.                                                            provide a limited range of medical Iacilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Tonal number of admissions to or discharges
ENERCY COISSUPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consunption of coMercial  e.ergy                   freo  hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and gas-
tbermal electricity) in kilograms of onu  equivalest per capita.                  HOUSING
Average uice of hounehold (persons per bousehold) - total, urban, and rural-
PQPJLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A heusebold consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mId-pear (millions) - As of  July 1; if nor ovailable,                 and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not he included in
average of two end-pear  estimates; 19i0, 1970, and 1977 dat,a                        the hbusehold fer statistical purposes.  Statistical definiti_ns of house-
Urba- population (peroent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                   hold vary.
tion; different definitions of -rban areas nay affect c-.p-rbulity                  Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                              ber of  persons  per room in all, urbas, and rural  -ospied cenventianal
Population density                                                                      dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings enclude son-permanent structures and
Pen  sq. k.m. - Mid-year population per uquare kilometer (100 hectares)                unuocupied parts.
Of total area.                                                                      A-cess to electricity  (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per so. kne, agricul~ure land - Coaputed as above fur Ugrioultural  -eed               Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters an percentage
only.                                                                                 of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-ago
(15-64 years), and retired (65 yaeas and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                   Adjosted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (penaent) - total, and urban - Compsund annual                 Primary sohool - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
gr-wth rates of total and urban mid-year populations far 1950-6i,                     it the primary level as percentages of respe-tively primary sohol-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 populati..s; narmally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                    different lengths of primary education; for countrins with  universal ads-
mid-year population; ten-yaur arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                    ation enrollment nuy enceed IOU paroont since acme pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1971 for most recent estimate.                   sbove the official school age.
Crude death rcte (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Secandary achool - tatal, end female - Computed as abhve; secondary educa-
year population; ten-pear arithmetia averages ending in 1960 and 1970                 tion requires at least Pon yearn of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year everage ending in 1975 for meat recent estimate.                        vides general rotational,  or teacher training itntruc.iost   for pupili
Orson teproducoion rune - Average number af daughters a woman will beer                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence L ourses are generallp
in her normal seprodantile periId if she experiences present agn-                     excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vo_ational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
19710  a-d 19715.                                                                      lude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptora, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                      or as departments of senondary institutians.
acceptors of hirtb-controi devices under auspi.es If national family               Pupil-teacher ratio - primary. and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                     primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Pamily planning- usmers (percent of married women) - Percentage of                      spoading levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control             Adult literacy eate (percent) - Literate adults (able tE  read and write) as
devices to all macriod w.e en in same age group.                                      a percentage of total adult population aged 1S years and aver.
FOOD AND SUTRITION                                                                   CONSLMPTION
Indem of food production per eaia  (17ill) -Indee number of p-r                      Passen.ger oarst(pee thousad pepulatiem) - Passen ger cars. om-prisemao  cr
capita annua  production of aall fd comoit es,                                     seating less than eight persons; macloden  amb1soe  ca, hesesand mItary
Per cacit  supply of calories (pen-ent of requirements) - Computed from               vehicles.
energy equivalent of net fend supplies available in country per capita             Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
pet day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less             broadcasts to general public per thousand cf population; excludes unlicensed
exports, end changes in stnok.  Net supplies emclude animal feed, seads,            receivers in countries and in years when registration of radi. sets was in
quantities used in foId processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quir-eents were estimated by FAO based en physiological needs for nor-              aboliohed licensing.
eel activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                TV receivers (phr tho-sand populutien) - TV receivers for broadcast to generid
weights, age and sea distributions of pnpslatios, and allowing 10 per-                public pen thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in con-
cent for wants at house.hld level.                                                    tries and In years when registration of TV sets wan in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) -         Protein contant of per        Newspaperoienulaoion (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food in defined as                  tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodinal publi-
above.,   Requirements far all countries established by USDA provide for              cation devoted primnrily to recording general sewn.  It is considered to
a minimum allowamce of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                 be "daily' if it uppears at least fone times a wee.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.           Cinema annual attendance per -apita per vear - Based on the number of tiokets
Theue standards are lower than those cf 75 grams of total protein an.d                sold during the year, inoludi=g admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 gdans of animal protein as a   verage far the world, proposed by                   units.
FAO in the Third World Pond Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein sapply of food            EMPLOYMENT
derived f.om animals and pulnes in grams per day.                                  Total labor farce (thousands) - Pconomically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-1) mortality rate (oar thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                forces and unemployed but  oexludiog housewives, stdents,  etc.  Defii-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                            tious in various  -csntries are not omaparable.
Pemale (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (pears) - AIeage number of years of life                        as percentage of total labor force.
romaining or birth; usually five-year  averages nding in 1960, 1976,               Industry (percent) - Lahoe farce in mining, conntruction, manufacturing and
and 1971.                                                                             electrioity, water  and gas an percentage of tnaal labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participatlon rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live biLrht.                                             female labor force as p_e-entages of their respective populations.
Acces- in afe eater (Percent cf pnpslatinn) - total, urban, and rural -                  Ihese are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting age-see
NSmber of people (total, urban, end rural) with reasonable aceess to                  ostr-cure of rho poptIation. v-d long tine trend.
safe vater supply (includes treuted surface waters or untreated but                Eoenosic dependency rotio - Roti  of population under 15 and 65 and oven to
umcontaminated water  -uch as that from protected borehole., springn,                  the labor farce in age group of 15-64 yearn.
and sanitary wells) as pnrcentages ef their respective pspulations.
Is an urban area a public fountain nr sadpost s  lonated not mere                 IN iM DiISTRIBION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                Peroestage of private income  (both in cash and kind) received by richest 9
sonble access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                  percent, richest 20 peroent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                   of hooseholds.
upend a disproportionate pant of the day ir fetching the family'n
cateroneeds.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Accoss to excreta disposal (percent of copulation) - total, urban, and              EItimated absnlute povetry income level (US$ pen capita) - urban and rural -
ravel - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by escreta                     Absolute poverty income level is that income level below whicb a minimal
disposal as percenrages of their respective populations.  iExrera                      nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal nay include the collection and disposal, with or without                      affordable.
oreatment, of human excreta and wsate-_ater by water-born  systems                 Etimated nelative poverty income level (-i       P cea  capita) - urban and rural -
cr the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                   Relanive poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
pppyoprion per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                    pee capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a sedinal school at university level.                     Estimated Ponulntio  below poverty inoose level (percent) - urban and reral -
P"pulanion per norsing person - Population divided by number of                          Per Ient of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nures, practionl nuroes, and                       "relative poor"  ohicbever is greater.
asuistaut nurses.
Economic and Social Data Divinion
Economic Analyate and Projeoties Department



Annex I
Page 4 of 5
-23-
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMEHT DATA SHEET
Actual                                  Ij                           ___ected   Growth l ate   r (in perent)
1965      1970      1972       1973       1974      1975       1976     1977       1980      1985   19J5s -7 i-    1980-85  1985-90
A. National Accounts
(Itillion US$ at 1975 prices)
1.  GDP                          6,939.3  11,760.4  13,852.7  16,127.4  17,542.2  19,089.2  21,947.8   24,097.4  32.031.5  52,575.1   10.7           ID.9      10.4     10.6
2.  Gains fro. TOT                 140.4      665.3   1,122.9   1,486.4      348.7         -    1,160.5    2,325.4   3,390.4   6,080.2                 -         -        -
3.  Gross do  estic income       7,079.7  12,425.7  14,975.6  17,613.7  17,890.9  19,089.2  23,108.4   26,422.8  35,423.3  58,655.3   10.4           13.1      10.6     10.7
4.  1lnports (goods and NFS)       984.3   4,228.6   5,273.4   7,154.3   7,373.4   7,464.0   9,680.0   12,574.5  18,885.0  37,318.7   22.5           23.5      14.6      14.6
5.  Exports volume                 388.3   1,843.8   3,111.5   5,001.9   4,887.9   5,678.6   8,129.6   10,226.4  15,362.1  31,693.3   30.7           2Z.2      15.6     15.2
6.  Exports (adjusted for TOT)    528.7   2,509.1   4,234.3   6,488.3   5,236.6   i,678.6   9,290.1   12,551.8  18,754.4  37,773.5   26.1            27.0      15.3     14.7
7. 9esourca gap (adjusted for
TOT)                         455.6   1,719.5   1,039.0      666.0   2,136.8   ,785.4        389.9        22.7     130.6   -454.8        -        -         -        -
8.  Total ionsumoptio.           6,873.1  10,771.0  12,686.9  13,617.4  14,525.2  15, 381.1  16,538.4   17,698.7  24,632.6  40,514.2    8.3            9.9     10.4      10.1
9.  Investmont                     917.1   3,276.1   3,105.5   4,275.9   5,070.2   i,120.6   5,874.4    7,247.7  10,921.7  17,692.5   18.8            16.4     10.1      11.9
10. Domestic savings (adjusted
for TOT)                     206.6   1,654.8   2,288.7   3,996.3   3,365.7   1,708.1   6,569.9    8,724.2  10,790.7  18,141.2   33.6           23.8      11.0     12.2
11.  GDP at current U05           2,996.5   8,303.4   9,835.8  12,393.1  16,780.1  1'1,089.2  25,369.5   31,644.7  46,698.7 100,565.7   20.7           19.6     16.6      16.6
0.  Sector oVtPut
(Share of GOP at 1975 prices)
1.  Agriculture, forestry  and
fisheries                     46.3      32.8       29.3      26.1       25.3      24.9       23.6        22.2      19.0       13.7
2.  Mining ood manufacturing        13.9      20.5       23.4       26.2      28.2       29.2      31.8        32.2      36.8       41.4
J.  Other                           39.8       46.7      47.4       47.8      46.5       45.9      44.5        45.6      44.2       44.9
C.  Prices (1975 - 100)
1.  Export price index Ia           57.7       67.4      67.3       85.2     107.9      1OO.0     111.7       122.3     141.6      176.4
2.  Import price index 7i           46.3       46.2      46.8       62.5      97.2      100.0      98.0       100.2     116.0      148.0
3.  Terms of trade iode.           124.6      145.9     143.8      136.3     111.0      100.0     114.0       122.1      122.1     119.2
4.  GDP deflator                    43.2       70.6      71.0       76.8      95.7      100.0     115.6       131.3     145.8      191.3
5.  Average exchange rate          266.2      310.4     394.0      398.5     406.0      484.0     484.0       484.0     484.0      484.0
D.  Selected Indicators              1965-75      1975-80     1980-85      E.                                        1960    1970    1975    19 7    1980        1985
1.  ICOR                              2.39         2.82        3.21       1.   Labor force (million)                 tl9    10.2    12.3    134    14.4         16.8
2.  Import elasticity                 2.10         1.88         1.40      2.   Unemployment (T of E.1)               7.9      4.9     4.1      3.8     2.1       1.5
3.  Average domestic savings rate    0.15          0.29        0.30       3.   Employment (million)                  8.2      9.7    11.8    12.9    14.1       16.6
4.  Margisal domestic savings rate   0.29          0.34/b       0.32      (X shares)                               100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0
5.  Iports/GDP                        0.36         0.52        0.65       3.1  Agriculture, forestry, fisheriem   58.6    50.5    45.9    41.8    39.5          34.1
6.  Investment/GDP                    0.25         0.31        0.33       3.2  Mining and manufacturing             10.4    14.3    19.1    22.4    23.0        25.5
7.  Resource gap/GDY                  0.11         0.02        0.00       3.3  Other                                31.0    35.2    35.0    35.8    37.5       40.4
F.  Public Finance /c (I of GDP)       1972         1973         1974        1975         1976         1977/e      1980         1985
1.  Current revenue                   17.8         16.9        18.3         20.3         22.9        22.7         22.4         23,5
1.1 Tao rsvesue                       13.5         13.2        15.0         16.8         18.9        18.9         19.2         20.0
2.  Current expenditure               14.2         11.6         12.4        14.4         14.3         15.7        15.4         15.8
2.1 Defefne expenditures               4.5          3.7          4.4         4.8          5.7          6.3         7.0          7.4
3.  Gonernment saving                  3.5          5.3          5.0         5.8          8.5         7.0          7.0          8.7
4.  Capital expenditure /d             11.3         8.7          8.0         8.3         12.7         10.5        11.0         10.8
'a Dollar price index. Refers to merchandise trade only.
(b Refers to period 1976-80.
/c Refers to the Government Sector, comprising Central Government (including government enterprises), Local Governmaent and Special
/d Refers to total capital empenditures, less repayment of debts, for 1972-77.
Ia Budget estinates.
'.ovemer 10, 1978



Annex ~
-24-                                                                                         Page 5 of 5
BALANCE0 OP PA098ENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
1969    1970   19711  972-   197 3   1974    1979   1976   .977    1F990            1995     1990
1. -ocru   (Int. NI'S)                                 996  1,221   1,479  2.075  3,962  5,125  5,679  9,111   12,536   21,753  55,907   141,361
2.   Imports (Intl. 9P01           2,995  2,064   2,490   2,5~~~~~~~~~~~~~77 4,368   7.209  7,464  6,493  1253  1,926   55,243  139,112
1.    esure  aluc                                 -992   -843 -1,012   -501   -406 -5,064 -I .785   -392              -23     -153       664     2,249
4.  RI facto  srite  IncOme
(1)  Not Intret payments                                 2    -29      -9I   -136    -166   -229   -399    4 11         -479     -665      -615      -534
of stich Itrsnopubltc MIT loans -Al                    -69     -69    -120    -150   -201   -190   -345         -437     -900  -1,296    -1,475
727)  DIrectiorsetjoe                                  -6      -6               -1        1     -9       -5    -57       -63      -52      -150      -215
741  Other facour nenote.om   Ices)                    91       77      94    101       72      74       '6    167       3354     400       350       300
5.  Correc  orcf_c   co                                    246     980     111      177     190     224      2.6    349       223      250      250        296
4.  eal.cc  onc--u-utot                                   -549   -623   -648   -371   -309 -2,023 -1 8)7    -314               12    -220        299     2,230
7.    roe    lesIussc                                       16      65       43      74     137     104       '3     76        90      260      360        305
6.  'officia   caia  get                                   130     131       64      87      61      64        -      -         -        -         -         -
Pu.blIc 8 4 LT loanss
9.  Olilas- -ntt                                           660     414     625      73 5    757  1.132   1,.6:3~  1,701    2.218   3,061I 3.316          4,509
III . oselo                                                 109     205    215    369        334     391     3 8    504        717    1,322    2,691.    3,364
II   Ret d      - -uoeets                                   551    299    410       466      423     764   1.3.9  1.197    1,501    1,719        635        925
ithee K 4 LT Ones
12.  eleboesessosa                           ~~~~~~          ~~~     ~~~~~~~17  36  33  49  71  174  4.3    120  SR      162      390       902
~13.  3eefaso                                                         9       10      10      13      23       18     66        73       78      222        668
I4.  Rt diehurse-eta                                         14      70       23      39      56     151       7      534     -23        94      I18        334
IS.  Usc of 1M98 .. reouce  Lb                                -    -19       .6      110       -    132      I 10     97      -14       -78        -          -
16. Sh-ono-lai  n-pit    trae-tflno                          57    122      135    .19        62     -45     610     357        39     -250       50        150
17.tPIto ~l ...aa.  tuna- Mt! /t                            -08      71     112    -87   -110    969        11    _9         -270       33 '        -         -
18.  tO-aoa  It  - -sro     I-  =  .o .ease) Id            -161    -35       49   -159   -.340       -15   -43-1,019  -1,345  -1,165   -1,462    -3,904
19.  Fore.Ign  -h-ang   --srte  5c49                                584      335    696   1,036   1,069  i,5 2  2,961   4,306   7,302   13,611   29,981
(rod ot prurd)
d.ieotad Loan Gomi-Ltaos                                                                                                                                                          1972    1973    1974    1973   1976       1977
Dabt crud Debt iSr-lu..
I.  OStOciat Irons                         ~~~~ ~~~~        ~~~~~150  131  84  87  61 6                          -      Publo  debt outatandieg 62,691  3,199  3,982  5,277  6,659   8,472
2.  Total rublIc 9 &   IT.loan                       753    475    669       9173  1,0713  1,9 7 2  1,374  3,613   3.4615          diabrsd leod of renid)
(If)  190                                              65      40       93      73     150      83     312.5  372        426        Interst_n  cobltr debt                     120     190     201    290      389      437
177  IDA                                                15      13       7      26      20        -                        -        Resyetea  peblt debt                       299     334     391     360     504      7 17
ill  Oth.r rellltr f                                    29      20      91      69      46      89      111.5  114       135        local public  debt serice                  609     464     392     658    693  1,154
4I)  lneses   i102                                            161    255      479    393    677        342    917       427         RIrehr de~bt serIce (sll,                  23       33      34      "9    163      125
Of -Ic etrally Ilanend ecnoi-cs                                                                 -   -          oTatdetmaos (et                          032     sf7      646     719    996  1,279
(51  supplIers                           5~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~74  134    248  94  223  486     202    689    1,067
747  "Prut  bak44                                              204      13      73     240     737     13  1.498   1,341         Bnedon on topor  ErIns 
"7)   tutOr                                                                                     19 I60                    69        nfLtc dot eentc                           19.7   12.2    11.6   11.6       9.9    9.2
107   PublIc Inne90  76                                 26       f       -              11      79~   36                   -       7-1e debt  -eire                           20.9    13.1    11.6   12.6   fO.9    10.2
3.  Other 9 6 LT Inane /0                                  100      26      67       74     213     120    1L8       97        16       790 + DIeaou Incet,  Ita.                 20.7   13.1    12.4   12.6    11.3   10.7
Ou--adsns  en-ber 3L, 197 7                             toeraan I,oms as Publin Dolt
Mtnu              0                                 loereasIprn   yea  001D                     5.3     5.6    6.5      7.6    9.2       I,
loternol Dolt Odloborsed only)                                                                            y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-etieati.o Re Poin Yar DD006  12.9    12.4   12.2    9.2   10.9   119
1.  29B11                                                                               (930.1)           (9.95
2.  sock Group /4                                                 ~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9466.2  L11.2    1961  debt outatandig & dlabured             94.7   139.   22.    03.5  659.0  933.1
3.  Other euloslacerol /6                           322.6             3.6                                  ci 0 pobltc debt 040                    3.5     4.4      5.6     7.7     9.9 9p,9i  d  3:  4.,  :7    9.l  9 
4.  Inoenisete                                                                         2,9 17.7           34.4                             0   *    robllct deb  aorirI1.                        2.      3.3     4.9     3.      67
cf  b,h centrally planned an..oosire- 
5.  oupplier                                                                           1,560.0            18.4                            IDA debt notetandng 6 dis6brsod              47.1   59.      79.3   92.7  102.u  f11:3
6.  Fta-ifl i                  LInuuna/                                                2,559.6            30.2                                 as    pablic debt 940                    1.9      1a      20      1.      1.5     1.
7.  B.rde                                                                                 167._1           2.0                             u      Io  2 blttc debt service              0.1     0.1      0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
0.  Pubic debt  o.1,.
9.  T.Ssi PublIct K61T debt                                                            8,472.3           100.0
10.  Other Me4LT debt                                                                     544.0              -
11.  TotalI poblIt  debt (i-1.  -dimbnead)                                             13,683.9-
22.  Total I5M4L1 debt (disbuesod no1y)                                                 9,017.1-
13.  Total 941T debt (inn,. odisb.nsed)                                                16,053.1-
Is   -Inlded tn nth-ee  tac-o  se.ettn - Icm.
70b  Nt of "'dealga" med  'repaY-st by porchas' (189),
7.  Lutude-  505  nIlli-o  herrod by the beokig system  to  1974.  SInc  boll of les  c-atat  of   rent and Oitsts.  n  te-s  o
ma;:de sootl    onernefr 196  and 1990.
Id  trines nt ue n  IMF6 heoeteotb are shi.-  spaasey.
T0   tse atiotol R seevee' (08).
h4 orldes bllarel   006D, Uslm,aelt, ufictf.npnt  edia  i-1-dss  0.4  tI C neoduts.
4Nati-ndes 198.



-25-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30. 1979)L
Loan or                                                               Amount ($ million)
Credit  Calendar                                                      (less cancellations)
Number    Year        Borrower             Purpose                Bank   TW   IDA  Undisbursed
Fourteen Loans and eight credits fully disbursed                  641.4         106.8
906      1973   Republic of Korea   Education II                  23.0                     3.2
917      1973   Republic of Korea   Ports 1                       80.0                     2.7
942      1973   Republic of Korea   Seeds Production               7.0                     0.3
953      1974   Republic of Korea   Tourism                       25.0                     0.6
994      1974   AFDC                   Agriculture                13.0                     1.2
1070      1975   Republic of Korea   Secondary Cities-Gwangju 15.0                          4.3
1096      1975   Republic of Korea   Education III                 22.5                     5.5
1101      1975   Republic of Korea   Railways V                   100.0                     3.5
1175      1975   SMIB I                 Dev. Fin. Co.              30.0                     0.1
1193      1976   Republic of Korea   Second Integrated             15.0                     1.4
Dairy Development
1203      1976   Republic of Korea   Highways III                  90.0                    17.6
1216 &    1976   Republic of Korea   Rural Infra-                  20.0                     0.4
1218-T                                  structure I.                     40.0               0.8
1319      1976   ADC                    Irrigation                 29.0                    26.6
1328      1976   Republic of Korea   Agricultural Credit           20.0                     3.6
1338      1976   KDB II                 Dev. Finance Co.           82.5                     3.4
1364      1977   ADC                    Irrigation                 95.0                    79.6
1401      1977   Republic of Korea   Ports II                      67.0                    65.9
1461      1977   KDFC VI                Dev. Finance Co.           70.0                     4.2
1466      1977   Republic of Korea   Heavy Machinery               80.0                    30.1
1474      1977   Republic of Korea   Vocational Training           23.0                    18.9
1503      1978   ADC - Ogseo Stage I Agricul/Irrigation            36.0                    36.0
1507      1978   SMIB II                Dev. Finance Co.           55.0                     3.5
1530      1978   Republic of Korea   Rural Infrastructure II  95.0                         75.0
1542       1978   Republic of Korea   Railway VI                  120.0                    69.7
1574      1978   KDB III                DFC                       110.0                    67.9
1635      1978   KDFC VII               Dev. Finance Co.          100.0                    64.9
1640      1978   Republic of Korea   Highways IV                  143.0                   142.9
1666      1979   Republic of Korea   Chungju Multipurpose    125.0                        125.0
1676      1979   Republic of Korea   Electronics Technology   29.0                         29.0
1749      1979   SMIB III               Dev. Finance Co.           60.0                    60.0
1758 /a   1979   Second Gwangju                                    65.0                    65.0
Regional Cities
Total                                                2,486.4  40.0  106.8  1,012.8
of which has been repaid                              99.9    -      1.5
Total now outstanding                                2,386.5  40.0  105.3
Amount sold                    8.5
of which has been repaid   3.9                         4.6    -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                    2,381.9  40.0  105.3
Total undisbursed                                    1,012.0   0.8           1,012.8
/a  Not yet effective.



-26-                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                      Amount ($ million)
Year   Obligor               Type of Business               Loan  Equity  Total
1968   KDFC                  Development Financing            -      0.7    0.7
1969   Honam Silk Co.        Textiles                        1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper           Pulp and paper                  4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development       -     0.6    0.6
1974   KDFC                  Development Financing            -      0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development       -     0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products            16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development    5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.         Synthetic Fibers                6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.   Tourism                          2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development       -     0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper
Mfg. Co.              Paper                           5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. Zinc                            15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                  Development Financing          17.8      -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products            10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products                    0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                  Development Financing                   0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market                   -     0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market                 15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                  Development Financing            -      1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co.,      Electronic Products
Ltd                                                    -      1.7    1.7
1979   KIFC                  Capital Market                   -      0.6    0.6
1979   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                          -     0.2    0.2
1979   Gold Star                                              -      1.5    1.5
Total gross commitment                               99.4   19.3  118.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                               48.8    1.8   50.6
Total commitments now held by IFC                    50.6   17.5   68.1
Total undisbursed
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



-27-                      ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 942      Seeds Project; $7.0 Million Loan of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: Decembier 31,
1979
Progress of implementation is satisfactory and physical impleimen-
tation is almost completed. The contractor for the last cereal plant
civil works declared bankruptcy, but other contractors have now completed
the work. Disbursements, as of September 30, 1979, were about 96% of the
loan, and could be completed in 1979. It is planned that all plants will
operate on a pilot basis in 1979 reaching on average, 75% of capacity in
1980.
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$13.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project provides long-term funds to the Agriculture and
Fisheries Development Corporation (AFDC) for onlending to subborrowers in the
private sector for the purpose of integrating on-farm production of fruits
and vegetables with modern, hygienic processing facilities, using land that
was idle or underutilized. The vegetables and fruits involved are main,ly
asparagus, shiitake (oak mushroom), spinach, mushroom, strawberry and peach.
Implementation of the project was delayed by about 18 months owing to lack
of loan demand for some of the processing facilities included in the project.
However, the project is now progressing satisfactorily since September 1977
when the Bank approved AFDC's proposal to widen the project's scope to meet
changed investor demand. Under the revised scope, AFDC will finance
processing and cold storage of fish, meat, fruits and vegetables, and also
fruit juice extraction and concentration and vegetable drying, for which the
loan demand is strong. Subloan applications and approvals have increased
significantly, and AFDC expects to disburse all the project funds by the end
of 1979. Disbursements as of September 30, 1979 were about 91% of the loan.
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understandiiig that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-28-                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1193    Second Integrated Dairy Development Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1976; Effective Date:
November 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of further development of 400 existing dairy
farms which participated in the first project; the development of 450 new
dairy farms; expansion of existing dairy processing facilities, construction
of a new processing plant; and technical assistance for both farm development
and processing. The effective date was delayed for nearly a year but the
implementation has progressed rapidly and the project may be completed ahead
of schedule. The project will benefit 41% more farmers and supply 8% more
cows than was originally estimated. Technical support to the farmers has
been strengthened but more has to be done to improve pasture quality and
establish a feed regime which would ensure the development of a low-cost
dairy industry in Korea. The expansion of processing facilities is
progressing steadily and most of it will be completed during 1979; it is
anticipated that the actual capacity then will be significantly above the
original estimate. KDBC financial condition improved during the last two
years but the net profit for 1978 was less than for 1977. The general
prospects are for a gradually improving trend. As of September 30, 1979,
disbursements were about 91% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1216    Rural Infrastructure Project; $60.0 Million Loan of which
Loan No. 1218T   $40.0 Million Third Window of March 19, 1976; Effective Date:
June 4, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Project implementation is proceeding very well. The Fuelwood, Roads
and Bridges, Water Supply and Rural Electrification components were
completed by the end of 1977. The Minor Irrigation and Upland Reclamation
components will be completed in 1979. Project monitoring and reporting
continue to be satisfactory, the Hydrologic Services Study has been
completed and the evaluation study is already producing useful results.
As of September 30, 1979, disbursements were 98% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; 29.0 Million
Loan of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project, located in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Korea. A project
office has been established, and construction work is progressing on the first
of five major civil work contracts. A second contract was awarded in
July 1979. Altogether, the five contracts will involve construction of 8
large and 19 small earthfill dams, 284 km of main and secondary canals
and land development for irrigating 12,700 ha. The project, which will
require five years to complete, also involves construction of 80 km of
river channel improvement and 150 km of village access roads, as well as
feasibility studies for a second stage project in the Miho Watershed.
The project is currently two years behind schedule due to major shortfalls
in local budget allocations. As of September 30, 1979, disbursements were
over 8% of the loan amount.



-29-                     ANNEX II
Page 5 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1328   Second Agricultural Credit Project; $20.0 Million Loan
of October 12, 1976: Effective Date: March 10, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is a continuation and expansion of the agricultural
program financed under the First Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 335-KO).
It provides funds to the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
for medium and long-term loans to farmers, through selected Gun (county)
cooperatives of NACF, for investments in apple orchard development, siLkworm
rearing houses, sprinkler irrigation for orchards, greenhouses for vegetable
production, and on-farm fruit storage. The loan became effective on March 10,
1977 and lending to subborrowers commenced in the following month. Project
implementation continues to progress satisfactorily and total lending is on
schedule. As of September 30, 1979, disbursements were about 82% of the loan
amount.
Loan No. 1364   Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on
20,700 ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include
an estuary dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigat:ion of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of uplands.
Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam was recently
completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction was awarded in
December 1977, in line with the appraisal schedule and construction is
progressing well; however, the irrigation subprojects are behind schedule
due to shortfalls in local budget allocations. As of September 30, 1979
disbursements were over 16% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1503   Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will benefit some 23,000 farm families by providing
new irrigation on 7,100 ha, improved irrigation and drainage on 3,700 ha and
a more assured water supply on an additional 1,500 ha. Project work consists
of nine pumping stations, 190 km of main and secondary canals and land
development including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, 2,500 ha of improDved
drainage (of which 1,500 ha would also be consolidated), 2,200 ha of tesrtiary
irrigation and conversion of 1,800 ha of upland and forest to paddy land.
Construction will be carried out under seven civil works contracts and three
will be awarded this year, about 12 months behind schedule due to shoritfalls
in local budget allocations.



ANNEX II
-30-                     Page 6 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 43 minor irrigation, 8,300 river
training and 7,400 water supply subprojects as well as a rural telephone
program. The 1978 program for river training, water supply and rural
telephones was completed on schedule and the 1979 program is progressing
well. Design work on the minor irrigation component is proceeding
satisfactorily and contracts have been awarded for 16 subprojects. The
total area of the irrigation subprojects has been finalized at 9,235 ha.
As of September 30, 1979, disbursements were over 22% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years following
its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood damage, generate
an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually and provide 460 MW of
peaking capacity for Korea's power system. The principal features of the
project are a 90 m high concrete dam across the South Han River, a power
plant containing four 115 MW generating units, and associated transmission
facilities; a reregulating dam about 20 km downstream of the main dam;
relocation of about 100 km of roads and 10 km of railway, protective works in
the reservoir area including the raising of an existing embankment of a
cement plant and other miscellaneous works; implementation of a resettlement
program for some 9,300 families affected by the project; and consulting
services.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1175    Medium Industry Bank (MIB); $30.0 Million Loan of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date: January 28, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides funds to MIB to make subloans to small
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises. The project is progressing
satisfactorily. Disbursements are about 99% of the total loan.
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million
Loan, of which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial
Leasing Company, of December 23, 1976; Effective Date:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make
subloans and investments to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects
during the period 1977-78; the remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, was
relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary KILC, to acquire machinery,
equipment, facilities and other property to be leased to investment enter-



ANNEX II
Page 7 oi- 13 pages
-31-
prises. Commitment of funds is progressing as expected; as of September 30,
1979, disbursements were about 96% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1461    Sixth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$70.0 Million Loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:
September 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan was made to help cover the foreign exchange requirements
of industrial subprojects to be financed by KDFC subloans in 1977-78. KDFC's
performance has been very satisfactory. As of September 30, 1979, disbursements
were about 96% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: December 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project cost has increased to $396 million; $141 million above
the appraisal estimate of $255 million. This is due to increases in
scope to enhance the company's ability to manufacture nuclear power
plant; devaluation of the U.S. dollar; and local inflation. The company
is preparing a detailed financing plan to cover the cost overrun which
will be submitted to the Bank for review shortly. The market prospects
for the project have been affected by the licensing of other power plant
manufacturers in Korea thereby leading to the possibility of under-
utilization of the project facilities. This has been brought strongly to
the Government's attention.  Project implementation is proceeding satis-
factorily in accordance with the revised implementation schedule and the
completion date is still scheduled for April 1980. As of September 30,
1979, disbursements were over 62% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan
of January 4, 1978; Effective Date:  March 10, 1978j
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by MIB to help
cover the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects over four
years. A portion of the loan - $20.0 million - was earmarked to assist
small-scale, labor-intensive subprojects creating employment at a gross
capital cost per job not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed
assets are not greater than $250,000. As of September 30, 1979, disbursements
were about 94% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1574      Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan
of June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan would be used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the proposed loan would be made available to KDB's subsidiary,



ANNEX II
- 32 -                 Pag  t -- I3 - es
the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in
order to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects.  Overall pror-fss
is satisfactory.  As of September 30, 1979, disbursements were over 38% o  the
loan amount.
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979 Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980. In order
to support relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 million
would be earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at
a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order
to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to
$10.0 million of the proceeds of the proposed loan was made available
to the Korea Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company
affiliated to KDFC, by way of subloans. As of September 30, 1979, over 38% of
the loan had been disbursed.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
After initial delays in finalizing specifications and bidding
documents for engineering, support and reseach equipment, the project is
progressing satisfactorily. Bids have been invited for a major proportion of
the equipment. Key personnel appointments required to strengthen management
capabilities at the Korea Institute of Electronics Technology (KIET) have been
made.
Loan No. 1749    Third Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 MIllion Loan of July 23,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979, Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange components of domestically
produced capital goods (estimated at 60 percent). To ensure that a reasonable
proportion of the loan is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects,
an amount of $25 million of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to
finance: (a) enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b)
projects generating employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater
than $8,500. The loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the
Government's policy of increasing the regional dispersal of employment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial structure, and also to continue
SMIB support of projects which would complement large-scale manufacturing
enterprises.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13 pages
Education Sector
Loan No. 906      Second Education Project; $23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394   $20.0 Million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project includes assistance for re-equipping 85 educational
institutions at secondary and university levels. The Loan/Credit funds are
mainly used to finance equipment. The Government is financing related civil
works. Project execution remains about two years behind schedule due to
initial delays and some project changes. The project is now making satisfactory
progress. About 88% of the equipment has been contracted, and 60% delivered;
furniture procurement has been completed; civil works were all completed
by the end of December 1978; and the fellowship program is well under way.
As of September 30, 1979, disbursements were completed under the Credit and
reached over 86% of the total loan amount, which is expected to be fully
disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31, 1975;
Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project includes assistance for extension and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Administrator of Labor Affairs (ALA). Project implementation has improved for
the MOE part of the project and is about six months behind schedule compared
with being about one year behind schedule in early 1978. Implementation of
the ALA part is satisfactory. Training operations have commenced in five
VTIs. Project completion is expected before the Closing Date of June 30, 1980
for both parts of the project. Estimated total project cost now is expected
to be below, but close to the appraisal estimates. As of September 30, 1979,
disbursements were about 76% of the total loan and were close to thle original
forecasts.
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance, part of which is being
provided by UNDP and the Federal Republic of Germany. Implementation schedule
has been revised and is about five months behind original schedule. Two
civil works contracts were awarded in November 1978. Equipment procurement
has commenced for two VTIs and the NCVTI with about $5.0 million purchased.
Disbursement should improve significantly. Technical assistance from UNDP
and Germany is satisfactory. The project is facing a moderate financial
problem, mainly caused by the sharp increase in constructing costs, about



ANNEX II
-34-                    Page 10 of 13 pages
140% over original estimate in unit building costs. The Government's
attention has been drawn to the importance of adequate budgetary provisions.
As of September 30, 1979, disbursement was about 18% of the total loan.
Tourism Sector
Loan No. 953      Kyongju Tourism Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multipurpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
of Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 km of roads, infrastructure, including storm water drain-
age, environmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course; and
and a school for training hotel personnel. Project implementation is now
progressing satisfactorily although completion of some project components is
likely to be delayed by about a year, due mainly to budgetary constraints.
The Government has now taken steps to provide all needed funds. The delay
has had no adverse effects on hotel development. The first two hotels with
600 rooms were completed and opened for operations on April 1, 1978.
Negotiations with other private investors are under way for two more hotels
and also for apartments and restaurants in the Bomun resort area. About 98%
of the loan had been disbursed as of September 30, 1979.
Regional Development
Loan No. 1070    Secondary Cities Regional Project; $15.0 Million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Implementation of the Secondary Cities Regional Project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Three housing sites, two access roads, a city
market fishery harbor infrastructure and building complex and associated
electrical works have been completed. Installation of refrigeration and ice
handling equipment at the fishery complex has experienced some delays; the
fishery complex is now expected to be fully operational by early 1980.
Construction of houses at all three sites has been completed and the sites
are fully occupied. After the initial delays, mainly in fulfilling conditions
of effectiveness and establishing the Gwangju Regional Development Unit, the
project has moved extremely well. As of September 30, 1979, disbursement was
over 71% of the loan amount.



ANNEX II
-35-                     Page 11 of 13 pages
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 917      Ports Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Civil works and provision of equipment financed under the First
Port Project are practically completed. Final estimated cost is $143 million
including $101 million foreign exchange. The excess foreign exchange require-
ment over the $80 million provided by the Bank loan is being provided by a
Saudi Fund for Development loan of $35 million to the Korean Government; this
loan was based upon the revised foreign exchange requirements of $115 million
arrived at following the first large increase in the price of petrolexum
products. The balance of the latter loan will be spent on additional civil
works. The project is practically completed.
Loan No. 1101    Fifth Railway Project; $100.0 Million Loan of April L0,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by providing for: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and
other equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and the
strengthening of its financial position. The main components of the project
are: an increase in station and line capacity and improvements in signaling;
acquisition of rolling stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts
and repair facilities; track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening;
completion of electrification of 71 km of industrial lines; and other
miscellaneous items. Contracts, financed by the loan, have been signed for
procurement of passenger and freight cars, wheel sets, spares for locomotives,
rail, bridge girders and track maintenance machinery, amounting to about
$96.4 million equivalent. About 97% of the loan proceeds have already been
disbursed.
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
February 20, 1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four national
highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b) pavinlg and
improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national highways totaling
about 600 km, including supervision of the work by consultants; and (c)
feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of national and provincial
roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. All contracts for construction
and paving were completed by June 1979. Feasibility studies by consultants
started in January 1978, and are now proceeding satisfactorily. As of
September 30, 1979, disbursements were over 80% of the total loan. Saudi Fund
for Development is providing a loan of $35 million to assist in financing the
project.



ANNEX II
- 3           ~       Page 12 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of
April 28, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container berths
being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m expansion of
the container stacking area provided under that project with ancilliary works;
rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and lighter wharf No. 5;
(b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container handling equipment, and
tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and (d) Technical Assistance
and Training. The first contract has just been let following delay in
appointing the consultants for final engineering. Estimated costs have
increased to $167 million ($95 foreign exchange) compared with the appraisal
estimate of $112 ($70 foreign exchange). KMPA expects to introduce commercial
accounting from January 1, 1982. Traffic and specially containerized
general cargo traffic continues to increase at Busan.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of a
permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars and
freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation of
additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of technical
assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector studies.
Bids have been received for about 96% of the Bank-financed items. Consultants
have been selected to carry out feasibility studies of major investment
items for 1980 and 1981. As of September 30, 1979, disbursements were about
42% of the total loan.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the



-37-                 ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13 pages
future development of the gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. Construction of one
road was started in April 1979, and bids on the remaining roads were received,
and contracts awarded August 1979. A contract for the study was signed, and
work started, in September 1979.



ANNEX III
-38-                          Page 1
KOREA
POPULATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   The project was prepared in approxi-
mately 25 months (March 1977 to
April 1979).
(b) The agency which has prepared
the project:                      MOHSA in collaboration with PPFK and
KIFP.
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:             May 1976
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:  April 12, 1979
(e)  Negotiations completed:           November 5, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:   March 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
A supervision mission is planned immediately following signing
to assist prompt initiation of project implementation.
Section III - Special Conditions
The following special conditions are incorporated in the Loan
Agreement:
(a) the Government will appoint an Advisory Committee to advise
the Project Director (para. 45);
(b) a policy be adopted to convert the present unipurpose field
workers into multipurpose workers changing their appointments
from temporary to permanent (para. 46);              1
(c)  an assurance that the Government will enter into contracts with
universities and hospitals for the midwifery training and invite
proposals from qualified institutions to carry out the required
research (para. 47);
(d) an assurance that the Government will issue an Executive Order
relating to PPFK's obligations and functions in the implementation of
the project (para. 49);



ANNEA III
3                     ~~~~~~~Page 2
,e)  the e tablistlment and tunctioniElg, in each center, of a Joint
0..rational Committee (JOC) to ensure com;nunity participation
in *hc MCH/FP centers (para. 51);
'i)  t detailLed list of quantitative indicators be prepared by
1I10TISA to measure progress in achieving targets (pard. 53); and
(g)  tile Goternment meet all incremental operating expenditures and
Lnclu!es chem in its annual budgets (para. 55).






US SR                                       127'                                                          129
N. KOREA                                                                                             N
/-RPOF                                                 IU                  2      
KOREA I N A
M2rl   _>-   hjS.                                                                                                                                           3V  4i=E  <,
-3r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
*0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
125'apM bhe ns                                                                                       rllh  j-   \b t    9X P 
T"   W b- llp-d b, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~ ~~         m,.~NN~      -     .-
-37-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.--
Yoo .  edeae o9 w    S e //^2WtNaN                                                              el >
': IN a Via's repine Vp X
/,~~~~~ -<  0       /~~~~~.7                                    Z
Ye//ow ,e,
OPUEULATfUN DENSITY RK522 By GUNS                                                                                     M f       R
LORE ThAN io
35.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
'k     POPUL~~EXATSIONO PEE REOJABECT e
PROVINCIAL OR SPETIAR CITY PBUNDARIES
-|_   IPTEROAIYOSAL BOUNDARIES
r:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ KXASO Oi Pf 4EADUATE RS S-C 5
o  i   0     60EXS-N HELT CENTERSO    SO
-34'                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS XOS 
O       20       40        60       80 iCC 1
_ 35'                          )Se'                              ID?' i2s-                                                       i28 20  40  '  go    100



