L OAN NIBER 1774 KO
Loan Agreement
(Population Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated     Z27                         197    '


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1774 KO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        m- 7                , 197% between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect ae if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "KIFP" means the Korean Institute for Family Planning;
(b) "MCH/FP Centers" means the maternal and child health
family planning centers referred to in Part A of the Project;
(c) "MOHSA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and
Social Affairs;
(d) "PPFK" means the Planned Parenthood Federation of
Korea, a non-profit organization established and operating under
the laws of the Borrower; and
(e) "Project Advisory Committee" means the committee refer-
red to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth


﻿- 2 -
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering


﻿-3-
and health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, personnel, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants, executive
architects and experts whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall devise, not later than June 1, 1980,
quantitative indicators, satisfactory to the Bank, to measure
progress in completing key actions included in the Project.
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-4-
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution. and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary for it or PPFK to acquire
not later than July 31, 1980 all such land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of
the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that all community
health workers engaged at health facilities under the Project
will be offered terms of remuneration and conditions of service
mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall provide all such funds, as
and when required and under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, for operating costs of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall establish, not later than
March 1, 1980, a Project Advisory Committee with representatives
of MOHSA, KIFP, the Korean Health Development Institute, the Korea
Development Institute, PPFK and universities having health care
expertise to advise the Project Director referred to in Section
3.10 below on family planning and maternal-child health policy,
programs and research.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause MOHSA to solicit
proposals from research institutions and award contracts on
establishing reporting systems and evaluating midwifery training
and the results of the Project. Such proposals shall be evaluated
by the Project Advisory Committee, whose choice shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall appoint the Director-General
of the Bureau of Maternal and Child Health of MOHSA as Project


﻿-5-
Director and chairman of the Project Advisory Committee and the
Director of the Maternal and Child Health Division of such Bureau
as Project Executive Director. The Project Director shall manage
and coordinate the Project and the Project Executive Director
shall be responsible for day-to-day operational activities of the
Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall ensure the establishment
at each MCH/FP Center of a Joint Operational Committee, consisting
of the Director of the health center, the senior midwife of the
MCH/FP Center, a local physician, the leader of the local Saemaul
Movement and one or more community representatives. The Borrower
shall submit to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1981, for the
Bank's comments guidelines for the establishment and functioning
of such Joint Operational Committees.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall ensure that day care centers
to be established within the MCH/FP Centers shall utilize the
integrated approach.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall ensure that vehicleb
acquired under the Project shall be: (i) properly maintained; and
(ii) used exclusively for the Project and that a system for
monitoring the maintenance and use of such vehicles shall be
established.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall issue an Executive Order,
the contents of which shall be satisfactory to the Bank, relating
to PPFK's obligations and functions under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member
concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien


﻿shall, unless the Eank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4,,02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause PPFK to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations and
financial conditions of PPFK, in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause PPFK to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)


﻿-7-
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of PPFK and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause PPFK, with respect to
those facilities owned or operated by PPFK under the Project,
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause to be operated all
facilities included in the Project in accordance with appropriate
health, administrative and financial practices.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall not amend, abrogate or
terminate the Executive Order referred to in Section 3.14 of this
Agreement without the prior approval of the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Executive Order referred to in Section 3.14 of
this Agreement has been duly issued by the Borrower.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Executive Order referred
to in Section 3.14 of this Agreement has been duly issued by the
Borrower and is legally effective on PPFK in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.03. The date                           , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Economic Planning Board of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By    '     ,+          '~C'           e~
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By ,
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                15,860,000        32%
(2) Furniture                   1,000,000        43%
(3) Equipment, vehicles         7,780,000
and materials:
(a) directly im-                            100% of foreign
ported                                 expenditures
(b) locally manu-                           100% of local
factured                               expenditures
ex-factory
(c) other local                             65%
procurement
(4) Overseas Training              60,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Unallocated                 5,300,000
TOTAL            30,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists Pf the following Parts:
Part A:   Health and Family Planning Delivery System
1.   Construction and furnishing of 91 maternal and child
health-family planning centers to be connected with existing
health centers, upgrading such health centers and addition of
day care centers to 68 of such maternal and child health-family
planning centers.
2.   Construction and furnishing of 11 family planning cum
maternal and child health clinics to replace premises rented by
PPFK.
3.   Provision of 13 mobile family planning units.
4.   Provision of 68 four-wheel drive vehicles.
Part B:   Training Health and Family Planning Staff
1.   Converting and training about 4,000 fieldworkers into
multipurpose health and family planning workers, training about
4,000 new multipurpose workers and training all such workers in
midwifery.
2.   Training industrial social workers, provincial family
planning supervisors, instructors, civic organization represen-
tatives, and other workers in family planning.
3.   Training personnel abroad and locally in communication
techniques and use and maintenance of communication equipment.
4.   Construction and .urnishing of additional training
facilities at KIFP.
5.   Provision of facilities and equipment for production of
materials for teaching family planning and midwifery.
6.   Provision of three vehicles.


﻿- 13 -
Part C:   Health and Family Planning Information, Education
and Communication Activities
1.   Provision for:
(a) video tape players for 91 MCH/FP Centers, about
56 general hospitals and 11 PPFK clinics;
(b) cassette recorders and film and slide projectors
for about 202 health centers;
(c) equipment and materials for about 13 mobile family
planning units; and
(d) video production equipment for PPFK.
2.   Provision of:
(a) an IEC Coordinator at MOHSA;
(b) a production manager, two producers, a cameraman,
an editor and an audio-visual technician for PPFK;
and
(c) a research officer and an assistant for PPFK.
3.   Construction and furnishing of additional office and
production space at PPFK.
4.   Provision of production of materials, directly or by
subcontracting, for MOHSA and PPFK.
Part D:   Implementation Capacity
Increasing the staff and equipment of MOHSA.
Part E:   Evaluation and Research
1.   Creation of reporting system on MCH/FP Centers.


﻿- 14 -
2.   Evaluation of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Korea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 16 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Korea if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Korea equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 17 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works shall be procured by competitive
bidding locally advertised in accordance with applicable procure-
ment procedures of the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank. Such
procedures shall include prequalification of contractors for civil
works.
2.   Contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles esti-
mated to cost not more than the equivalent of $100,000 each and
which are estimated to cost in the aggregate not more than the
equivalent of $1,000,000 may be procured by competitive bidding
locally advertised in accordance with applicable procurement
procedures of the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of this
Part:
(a) small items estimated to cost not more than $10,000
each and which are estimated to cost in the aggregate not more
than the equivalent of $500,000 may be procured on the basis of a
minimum of three quotations, in procedures satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(b) video tape equipment estimated not to cost in the
aggregate more than the equivalent of $500,000 may be procured on
the basis of negotiated contracts from qualified suppliers, in
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.   To the extent practicable, goods shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more
each.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 18 -
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $750,000 or more and contracts for furni-
ture, equipment, vehicles or materials estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall


﻿- 19 -
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 1984
through   August 1, 1996                    1,155,000
And on February 1, 1997                          1,125,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of -maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1. 40%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.80%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.15%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.00%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.95%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  4?      day of   Ol - , 1971.
FOR SECRETARY


