                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR564

        IMPLEMENTATION, COMPLETION, AND RESULTS REPORT
      (IBRD-73890, IBRD-73900, IBRD-74620, IBRD-76060, IBRD-78210)

                                      ON

                                    LOANS

        IN THE AMOUNT OF €310.2 MILLION AND US$160 MILLION
                  (US$575 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     AND

        IN THE AMOUNT OF €60 MILLION AND US$48.056 MILLION
                  (US$125 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO

                        HALKBANKASI (HALKBANK)

                                     AND

                               TURKIYE SINAI

               KALKINMA BANKASI (TSKB), RESPECTIVELY

                                   FOR AN

ACCESS TO FINANCE FOR SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES PROJECT


                                March 29, 2013


Finance and Private Sectors Development Unit
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region Sector Department
                                      FINAL DRAFT


                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective February 13, 2013)

                                     Currency Unit
                                    TL1.00 = US$0.57
                                    US$1.00 = TL.77

                                     FISCAL YEAR


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EFIL II                 Second Export Finance Intermediation Loan
GDP                     Gross Domestic Product
Halkbank                Halkbankasi
IBRD                    International Bank For Reconstruction And Development
ICR                     Implementation Completion Report
IFI                     International Financial Institution
IEG                     Independent Evaluation Group
ISR                     Implementation Status And Results
IT                      Information Technology
KfW                     Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau, German Development Bank
KOSGEB                  Küçük ve Orta Ölçekli İşletmeleri Geliştirme ve Destekleme İdaresi
                        Başkanlığı, Turkish Small and Medium Enterprises Development
                        Organisation
M&E                     Monitoring And Evaluation
PAD                     Project Appraisal Document
PDO                     Project Development Objective
PFI                     Participating Financial Institution
PIU                     Project Implementation Unit
SME                     Small And Medium Enterprise
SME I                   Access to Finance for Small and Medium Enterprises Project
TL                      Turkish lira
TOBB                    Türkiye Odalar ve Borsalar Birliği, the Union of Chambers and
                        Commodity Exchanges of Turkey
TSKB                    Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi
TUIK                    Türkiye İstatistik Kurumu, Turkish Statistical Institute




                 Vice President:   Philippe H. Le Houerou
               Country Director:   Martin Raiser
                Sector Manager:    Aurora Ferrari
           Project Team Leader:    Isfandyar Zaman Khan
              ICR Team Leader:     Samuel Munzele Maimbo
                                                 FINAL DRAFT


                                                    TURKEY

  ACCESS TO FINANCE FOR SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES PROJECT


                                                      CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 29
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrowers’ ICR ........................................................................ 31
                                    FINAL DRAFT



A. Basic Information
                                                                      Access to Finance for
Country:              Turkey                  Project Name:
                                                                      SMEs
                                                                      IBRD-73890,IBRD-
Project ID:           P082822                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                      73900
ICR Date:             02/19/2013              ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                      TSKB AND
                                                                      HALKBANK (REP
Lending Instrument:   FIL                     Borrower:
                                                                      OF TR
                                                                      GUARANTOR)
Original Total
                      USD 180.21M             Disbursed Amount:       USD 726.63M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:       USD 696.91M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies: Halkbankasi and Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (TSKB)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                           Revised / Actual
     Process            Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/20/2005   Effectiveness:                             07/26/2007
                                                                             12/09/2008,
Appraisal:            04/06/2006   Restructuring(s):
                                                                             11/17/2009
Approval:             06/08/2006   Mid-term Review:
                                   Closing:                  04/30/2012       04/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings           Borrower              Ratings
                     Moderately
Quality at Entry:                        Government:         Satisfactory
                     Satisfactory
Quality of                               Implementing
                     Satisfactory                            Satisfactory
Supervision:                             Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                             Overall Borrower
                     Satisfactory                            Satisfactory
Performance:                             Performance:
                                        FINAL DRAFT


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                         QAG Assessments
                           Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                               (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                 Quality at Entry
Project at any time      No                                              Satisfactory
                                                 (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                        No                                          Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original                 Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                              5                     5
General finance sector                                              15                    15
General industry and trade sector                                   10                    10
Micro- and SME finance                                              70                    70


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                          67                   67
Other financial and private sector development                      33                   33

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:          Philippe H. Le Houerou              Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:        Martin Raiser                       Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:          Lalit Raina                         Fernando Montes-Negret
Project Team Leader:     Isfandyar Zaman Khan                Marialisa Motta
ICR Team Leader:         Samuel Munzele Maimbo
ICR Primary Author:      Samuel Munzele Maimbo


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project’s main development objective is to increase Turkish SMEs’ access to
medium and long-term finance.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

N/A
                                     FINAL DRAFT

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target     Formally    Actual Value
                                         Values (from       Revised      Achieved at
  Indicator         Baseline Value
                                           approval          Target     Completion or
                                         documents)          Values     Target Years

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target     Formally    Actual Value
                                         Values (from       Revised      Achieved at
  Indicator         Baseline Value
                                           approval          Target     Completion or
                                         documents)          Values     Target Years

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           DO                       IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1    06/28/2007        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    0.00
  2    09/23/2007    Moderately Satisfactory      Satisfactory                  27.47
  3    06/13/2008        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 175.49
  4    01/28/2009        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 217.36
  5    11/19/2009        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 460.96
  6    05/27/2010        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 515.07
  7    01/16/2011        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 677.80
  8    09/06/2011        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 685.84
  9    06/11/2012        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                 726.63


H. Restructuring (if any)

This project was restructured several times. Before signing, both borrowers requested
changes to the project; TSKB decided to act as a retail instead of a wholesale lender and
Halkbank requested an increase in the loan amount to €100 million. The project was
resubmitted to the World Bank Board in June 2007, and the restructured project became
effective in July 2007. In December 2008, the World Bank Board of Executive Directors
approved an additional loan in the amount of US$200 million equivalent (US$60 million and
€109.1 million) to Halkbank. Furthermore, the Board approved an additional loan to
Halkbank on November 17, 2009, in the amount of US$250 million equivalent (US$100
million and €101.1 million).
                          FINAL DRAFT


I. Disbursement Profile
                                         FINAL DRAFT



1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.     The Access to Finance for small and medium enterprises Project for which this
implementation completion report is prepared has been restructured and complemented
with additional financing several times during its life. The original project approved by the
World Bank in June 2006 was for two loans of €100 million for Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma
Bankasi (TSKB) and €50 million for Halkbankasi (Halkbank). Before signing, both borrowers
requested changes to the project; TSKB decided to act as a retail instead of a wholesale lender
and Halkbank requested an increase in the loan amount to €100 million. The project was
resubmitted to the World Bank Board in June 2007, and the restructured project became
effective in July 2007. In December 2008, the World Bank Board of Executive Directors
approved an additional loan in the amount of US$200 million equivalent (US$60 million and
€109.1 million) to Halkbank. Furthermore, the Board approved an additional loan to
Halkbank on November 17, 2009, in the amount of US$250 million equivalent (US$100
million and €101.1 million). All loans were provided directly to the banks concerned with a
guarantee from the Treasury of the Republic of Turkey.

2.    At the close of the project in April 2012, the project had fully disbursed the loan
amount. The project provided access to medium-term finance to 800 small and medium
enterprises (SMEs) under the original loan and the two additional financing loans. In total,
more than US$700 million equivalent was disbursed to SMEs for both working-capital and
investment purposes. In addition, US$180 million in reflows have gone back to SME clients.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

3.    The preparation of the Access to Finance Project took place against the
background of strong overall macroeconomic performance in Turkey. After a major
economic crisis in 2001, Turkey’s economy recovered to experience sustained rapid growth.
During the period 2002–06, the economy grew 7.5 percent per year on average, supported by
sound macroeconomic policies and the consistent implementation of a strong structural
reform agenda. The financial sector also recovered from the deep crisis of 2001 thanks to
decisive moves by the regulatory authorities to clean up the balance sheets of the banking
sector, intervene in insolvent financial institutions, and introduce tight risk management and
supervisory standards during the recovery.

4.    Despite the strong recovery and improved health of the financial sector, trust in
the banks recovered only slowly, leading to a dearth in term funding, particularly for
Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). SMEs were seen as higher risk clients by banks,
often lacked the necessary collateral to access bank funding, and were almost entirely cut-off
from longer term financing. The average maturity of bank loans was below one year, and
maximum maturities of around two years for local currency and five years for foreign
currency loans were reserved for top-end clients only. Hence, at the time of preparation, it
was accepted knowledge that financing constraints loomed large in preventing the SME
sector to grow, increase productivity and thus help Turkey improve its overall economic
performance. 1 Indeed with SMEs representing 99 percent of all enterprises, 78 percent of
employment and 60 percent of total exports but only around a quarter of bank credit, there
was a strong rationale for targeted instruments to alleviate SME financing constraints.




1
 These perceptions were validated by the Enterprise Survey conducted in 2008, which showed that the
severity of the lack of access to finance as an obstacle to growth decreased with firm size.


                                                 1
                                       FINAL DRAFT

5.     Moreover, shortly after the Access to Finance Project was declared effective in
June 2007, Turkey started to feel the impact of the then evolving global economic and
financial crisis. Between end-2007 and November 6 2008, the Istanbul Stock Exchange fell
51 percent, and the Turkish lira depreciated by 31 percent against the U.S. dollar. Tightening
liquidity and declining growth prospects forced domestic banks to dramatically curtail lending
to SMEs, with some leading institutions cutting lending by as much as 50 percent, and the
share of SMEs in total bank credit falling from 27 percent prior to the crisis in 2007 to 22
percent by 2009. This changing economic environment gave additional urgency to the
injection of term funding resources targeted to SMEs.

6.     Against this background, the Government of the Republic of Turkey
(Government) requested World Bank support to SMEs in the form of a credit line
intermediated by domestic commercial banks. The provision of term funding to the
commercial banks specifically targeted at SMEs was expected to alleviate the financing
constraint resulting from a lack of term funding on the liability side of the banks’ balance
sheets, particularly at medium-and-long-term maturities, thereby promoting SME investments
and growth. Second, in the medium term, the project was expected to build the capacity of
participating financial institutions for credit appraisal of SMEs, thereby reducing transactions
costs, improving risk management and supporting these institutions to raise funding for their
SME business from other IFIs or from market resources.

7.    Additionally, the project was designed to provide credit to regions with low credit
activities (mostly in the east and southeast of the country). As a result, the project was to
help ensure that these areas were not be left behind and that the credit and productivity gaps
between more and less advanced regions would not widen. Again, it was expected that this
would be achieved through bridge financing to banks for onlending to SMEs in underserved
regions until the market was sufficiently developed to alleviate the need for targeted support.

8.    The credit line intervention complemented a comprehensive package of Bank
analytical and financial support to Turkey’s SME sector. The Bank was pivotal in
establishing the Investment Advisory Council, hosted by Turkish Prime Minister Recep
Tayyip Erdogan in 2004 and subsequent years. Constraints to business growth were also
corroborated through a series of Investment Climate Assessments (in 2008 and 2010), and
measures to support financial and private sector development were also included in Bank-
financed programmatic development policy loans. In 2011, the Bank prepared a report on
“Improving Conditions for SME Growth: Finance and Innovation?, which reviewed the
obstacles faced by SMEs and developed comprehensive policy recommendations. 2

9.    The credit line also complemented existing credit facilities provided by
international organizations. At the time, the credit lines provided by other international
organizations between 1999 and 2006, which totaled US$2.9 billion 3 , primarily targeted
medium-to-large exporting firms, with an average loan size per firm of about €2–3 million
and a maximum loan about of about €10–20 million. Only a few, such as the German
Development Bank - Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW), the Union of Chambers and
Commodity Exchanges of Turkey - Türkiye Odalar ve Borsalar Birliği (TOBB), and the
Turkish Small and Medium Enterprises Development Organisation - Küçük ve Orta Ölçekli
İşletmeleri Geliştirme ve Destekleme İdaresi Başkanlığı (KOSGEB), targeted small firms,
with maximum loan sizes of about €100,000 4. This project was designed to fill the gap in the



2
  World Bank (2011), Report No 54691 –TR.
3
  SME Loans Monitoring Report (1999-2005), Undersecretariat of Treasury
4
  Small Enterprise Loan Program (SELP) of KfW (2004-2006), General Enterprise Development
Program and Loan Interest Support Program of KOSGEB


                                               2
                                       FINAL DRAFT

middle by targeting SMEs (including nonexporting firms, with average and maximum loan
sizes of €700,000 and €2.5 million, respectively).

1.2 Original Project Development Objective and Key Indicators

10. The original project development objective (PDO) was to increase Turkish SMEs’
access to medium- and long-term finance. Key indicators for measuring project outcomes
were:

      •   Number of SMEs and SME portfolios financed under the project
      •   Share of medium-term financing (more than 12 months) in the total SME loan
          portfolio of the participating bank financing under the project.
      •   Nonperforming loan ratios for the project
      •   Share of the credit line disbursed in local currency under the project
      •   Number of provinces with active SME clients financed under the project

11. In addition to those mentioned above, the project was designed to monitor three broader
indicators:

      •   Profile of SMEs financed under the project (for example, amount of sales, number of
          workers, and economic sector)
      •   Lending technologies used by TSKB and Halkbank (for example, use of credit-
          scoring models or the information provided by the credit bureau to grant loans to
          SMEs)
      •   Overall increase in access to finance for the SME sector in Turkey

12.     These indicators were intended to be monitored for analytical purposes only and
serve as inputs in defining policies and projects aimed at further improving access to credit
for SMEs in Turkey. Unfortunately, systematic collection of data on the second group of
indicators did not take place.

1.3 Revised PDO (as Approved by Original Approving Authority) and Key
Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

13.       The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

14.      The primary beneficiaries for this project, as identified in the project appraisal
document (PAD), were SMEs employing fewer than 250 people and having annual sales of
less than US$20 million. All private small and medium enterprises (private ownership of
more than 50 percent), irrespective of their sector, were eligible for participation. In
particular, a special effort was made to ensure that the project benefited SMEs in financially
underserved regions in the north, east, southeast, and center of the country, as defined by an
official decree of the Government. There were no sector restrictions. However, a cap of about
30 percent of the total lending amount was applied to the tourism sector.

15.     The secondary beneficiaries were the participating financial institutions, TSKB and
Halkbank. While both TSKB and Halkbank were selected for their excellent management
capacity, there was still room for the credit line to positively affect behavioral changes in the
SME financing practices of the participating financial institutions (PFIs). Such changes, it
was expected, would eventually lead to changes in the maturity of financial products offered
by the PFI and less onerous collateral requirements for SMEs, as participating banks adopted



                                               3
                                       FINAL DRAFT

new credit assessment methods and developed a more sophisticated and targeted approach to
their SME business. However, whether the banks significantly changed their credit
assessment tools, lending methodologies or expanded their SME portfolio was not
systematically assessed as part of the project supervision process. Nevertheless, during the
design phase, TSKB shared its experience with earlier lines of credit with Halkbank. In the
event, Halkbank considerably increased its access to term funding from other IFIs after the
beginning of the project, an indirect indication of increased credibility resulting from the
experience gained.

1.5 Original Components

16. The project was designed to finance medium-term working capital (for raw materials,
for example) and investment loans (for vehicles, machinery, or equipment or civil works, for
example) and leases through two banks in Turkey TSKB and Halkbank. The original loan was
for €100 million for TSKB and €50 million for Halkbank. After Board approval in June 2006
and prior to effectiveness, TSKB asked to become a retail lender under the project rather than
a wholesaler to PFIs and Halkbank requested an increase in the loan amount to €100 million,
and the restructured project that became effective thus included to direct retail facilities
targeting SME clients and an increased loan amount for Halkbank. Both banks were selected
for the project on the basis of their financial soundness, and well performing credit portfolio.
TSKB had a successful track record with intermediating World Bank credit lines. Halkbank
too had a strong branch presence in the targeted regions and an ongoing focus on growing its
SME portfolio, which strengthened its appeal as a partner bank for the project.

1.6 Revised Components

17. The Halkbank component was scaled up twice during the life of the project. After
Halkbank fully disbursed its initial loan funds on December 9, 2008, the Board approved an
additional loan in the amount of US$60 million and €109.1 million (US$200 million
equivalent). Later, the Board approved an additional loan to Halkbank on November 17, 2009,
in the amount of US$250 million equivalent (US$100 million and €101.1 million). The
additional financing for Halkbank was intended to enable further expansion of the sectors
covered and to broaden the coverage of the project, thus enhancing the impact by improving
access to finance for SMEs. Under the two additional financing loans, US$40 million and
US$75 million, respectively, were allocated for subborrowers in underserved regions.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

Not applicable.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

18. At the time of appraisal, Turkey had a long history with World Bank credit lines.
Between 1999 and 2007 three export finance intermediation loans, or EFILs, totaling US$908
million had been approved 5. The Government was also implementing credit lines with other
international financial institutions and bilateral development agencies in the SME sector. This



5
 EFIL I, US$300 million, 1999-2003, EFIL II, US$303 million, 2004-2007, EFIL III, US$305 million,
2005-2009



                                               4
                                       FINAL DRAFT

history of designing and implementing credit line projects for financing exporters and SMEs
provided both the World Bank and Government counterparts with a sound base of experience
for the design and development of this operation. Turkey’s experience in addition confirmed
general lessons of experience developed over time in World Bank Line of Credit operations.

19.   Specific lessons incorporated into the project included:

            •   Lines of credit are more successful in a stable macroeconomic and
                undistorted financial environment. This was clearly the case in Turkey after
                the macro economic and financial sector reforms of 2001.

            •   Participating financial institutions should be selected based on sound bank
                analysis, including externally audited financials.

            •   Close monitoring of the performance of the credit line portfolio and the
                participating banks’ overall performance is warranted to ensure sound
                commercial principles are being followed, including tracking of non-
                performing loans, capital adequacy ratios and other financial indicators. This
                was reflected in the performance indicators monitored under the project
                (section 1.2).

            •   Lines of credit should be based on commercial principles, avoiding interest
                rate subsidies or narrow sector targeting, and providing significant flexibility
                to participating financial institutions. Some more details on how this lesson
                was incorporated follows below.

20.       Quality of participating financial institutions: Both TSKB and Halkbank were
selected on the basis of sound bank analysis and audited financial performance data. The
World Bank preparation team conducted detailed assessments of both banks. The banks were
deemed to be well capitalized and profitable, with relatively small exposure to market risk.
Their loan portfolios had performed well in the years leading up to the preparation of the
project, and overall the banks appeared to be run in a sound manner. TSKB, the private bank,
was rated by both Fitch Ratings and Moody’s and received ratings in line with the largest and
best-run banks in the country. Halkbank was solely owned by the Government but was slated
for privatization with a financial adviser (an investment bank) already in place to bring the
bank to the market. Both assessments confirmed the management capacity of each bank and
its ability to implement the operation. At the same time, the engagement with Halkbank was
also seen as an opportunity to strengthen the bank’s credibility in the market and thus prepare
it for accessing other IFI or syndicated funds.

22.     Flexibility: The project, along with other credit lines in Turkey approved since then,
had built-in design flexibility that allowed for operational adjustments as needed to ensure
effective implementation. Areas of flexibility included the following:

  •   Currency: The World Bank’s loan to both banks was designed to start as euro fixed-
      spread loans with the option to convert to Turkish lira. Withdrawals could be converted
      into Turkish lira at any time during the life of the loans, resulting in a local currency
      obligation for the converted option for the converted part of the loan. To re-denominate
      part of the loan obligation, the World Bank Treasury could execute, with a market
      counterpart, a euro-TL swap and passed on the terms of the swap to the borrower. This
      flexible option embedded a mechanism for the banks to manage their exposure to
      foreign exchange risk.
  •   Sector: The project included no restrictions on eligible sectors. Experience has shown
      that sector restrictions lead to providing financing to unviable projects simply because
      they are in a particular sector. It was agreed that with the exception of the tourism


                                              5
                                       FINAL DRAFT

      sector (on which a cap of 30 percent of the total amount lent to TSKB was imposed),
      there were to be no sector restrictions.
  •   Subloan lending requirements: The terms and conditions of subsidiary loans were
      flexible by design. Loans could be granted for both working-capital and investment
      purposes, and lease contracts could be denominated in any currency. Contrary to project
      design, there was no deliberate effort to monitor the lending technologies used by
      TSKB and Halkbank (for example, use of credit-scoring models or the information
      provided by the credit bureau to grant loans to SMEs). There was also no attempt to
      monitor the impact of the credit line on the maturity structure of the balance sheet of the
      participating banks beyond the direct impact of the bridge loan. These were missed
      opportunities to monitor the potential impact of the credit line on the participating
      financial institutions.

23. In addition, a key design decision evolved around the choice of a retail rather than
wholesale approach. As originally designed and first approved in 2006, the project
envisaged that TSKB would act as wholesale lender for the €100 million it managed and on-
lend the World Bank funds to private banks and leasing companies. TSKB requested to
change its role in the project from a wholesaler to a retailer. TSKB saw the retail model as
being more attractive and wanted to develop its own retail capacity. The Bank agreed in the
interest of getting the loan started, ultimately with an eye to the final SME beneficiaries. This
has advantages as well as drawbacks, as outlined below.

24. Additionality and impact on SME lending conditions generally. The move to a retail
model raises questions over the additionally of the Bank’s funds. Without a market test as
provided for under a wholesaling structure, the Bank is unable to tell whether it truly pushes
out the supply curve for SME lending at market conditions (see sustainability and lessons
learned section for further discussion). Moreover, TSKB had initial difficulties in finding
retail clients and other commercial banks might have been better placed in intermediating
these funds. The same was not true for Halkbank, however, which had a wide branch network
and good potential SME client base.

25. Leasing companies: When the project was first designed with TSKB as a wholesale
lender, it was expected that some of its clients would include leasing companies. When TSKB
opted to implement the project as a retail lender directly to SMEs, leasing companies were
excluded from the project. The exclusion of leasing companies at this stage was a missed
opportunity. Turkey has a fairly successful leasing industry, although it has been substantially
impacted by the crisis. New leasing volume in 2009 amounted to $2.2 billion, which was a
severe reduction from $5.3 billion and $8.3 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Including
leasing would have helped (1) reach smaller firms, which do not necessarily have access to
bank loans but are accessible by leasing companies; and (2) promote the development of the
leasing sector and thereby deepen the financial sector. Leasing companies are being
reintroduced into the design of the SME 3 operation.

26.      Scale up during the financial crisis: Against the background of a sudden
deterioration in the economic outlook in 2008, the Government sought ways to scale up
financial support to the real sector. In 2008, the Government requested and the World Bank
Board approved an additional loan of US$200 million equivalent (US$60 million and €109.1
million) to Halkbank guaranteed by the Government. The flexible design of the credit line and
the role of state-owned Halkbank as a retailer in SME 1 was a key design feature that allowed
the project to be scaled up rapidly and provide significant funding to the SME sector at a time
of great economic uncertainty and credit contraction.




                                               6
                                       FINAL DRAFT


2.2     Implementation

27. Administrative arrangements: The project was implemented over a period of five
years, from effectiveness in July 2007 (within two months following Board approval of the
restructuring paper for the August 2006 initial Board approval) to closing on April 30, 2012.
Overall, the implementation arrangements worked well. Issues addressed during
implementation included:

28. SME pipeline: Demand for loans from firms was strong from the beginning. Effective
marketing of the program by the banks and the backlog created by the initial delay of
effectiveness ensured that the project got off to a positive start. The use of a 17-page
operational guideline for participating staff (branches, regional offices, appraisal departments,
and loan departments) helped ensure that the loans were efficiently processed in line with the
operational manual for the project. In the later stages of project implementation, however,
there was some difficulty in finding creditworthy clients in the underserved regions. The SME
1 project was the precursor to a number of similar credit-line interventions in Turkey by other
development partners. As with SME I, these operations were to some extent also designed to
channel funds to SME sub-borrowers in underserved areas, which led to a certain degree of
saturation and may have resulted in a marginal worsening of asset quality in the project
portfolio.

29. Loan appraisal system and loan approval procedures: During the course of project
implementation, the banks strengthened their loan appraisal and approval procedures.
Halkbank integrated its appraisal system for investment loans into its appraisal system for
working-capital loans. Up until then, its investment loan appraisal report was Excel based. By
project end, the systems shared a common IT platform, which reduced the scope for errors.
The system also improved Halkbank’s data collection capability, which in turn helped the
bank move toward an internal-rating–based risk model under Basel II. While the project team
encouraged a move from collateral to cash-flow based lending, this was not monitored and
anecdotal evidence suggests the bulk of SME lending remains collateral based.

30. Loan pricing: At the commencement of the project, Halkbank was still using manual
methods for loan evaluation and pricing, which increased the risk of over- or underpricing of
loans to subborrowers. The risk was discussed during project preparation and implementation,
and Halkbank introduced an automated system towards the end of the project.

31. Environmental assessment framework: During the course of project implementation,
both banks’ environmental assessment framework had to be revised to align their policies and
procedures with the World Bank’s safeguard policies. The revised framework (1) eliminated
the screening categories and adopted World Bank and national screening classifications; (2)
separated the due diligence of the firm from the assessment of the subprojects to be financed
by the bank; and (3) applied the World Bank categories to subprojects. A simplified checklist
version was also prepared for use with small-scale construction projects. It was further agreed
that preparing an environmental management plan and conducting public consultation
meetings for civil works projects—although not requested under national environmental
legislation for most of the projects—would represent a proper implementation of
environmental safeguard policies. The change in the environmental assessment framework
mid-course was required and reflected weaknesses in the design of the original framework at
appraisal. While the participating banks supported this effort, the perceived change in the
“rules? after more than two thirds of the loan had been disbursed created some uncertainty
among SME clients and contributed to the decline in demand for investment loans,
particularly among clients in underserved areas during the final implementation period of the
project.




                                               7
                                        FINAL DRAFT

32. Scaling up: Working with the World Bank helped TSKB and in particular Halkbank
strengthen their credibility with other international financial institutions. Subsequent to the
signing of SME,1 Halkbank was able to significantly scale up its SME credit line business
with the EIB, AFD and CEB (see Table 1 below) 6. In addition, and although direct attribution
is not possible, Halkbank subsequently successfully entered the Eurobond market thereby
raising funds that are expected over time to substitute for bridge funding from the IFIs (see
Table 2 below).

Table 1: Halkbank SME Credit lines with IFIs (2006 – 2012)
                                                                                       Date of
    Name of Loan                                                   Signed Amount
                                                                                       Agreement
    EIB SME DEVELOPMENT GLOBAL                                        90.000.000 EUR     19.07.2007
    EIB SMALL BUSINESSES GLOBAL LOAN                                150.000.000 EUR      08.06.2009
    EIB SMALL BUSINESSES GLOBAL LOAN                                150.000.000 EUR      13.05.2010
    EIB SME RECOVERY SUPPORT LOAN                                     74.820.000 EUR     26.07.2010
    EIB GREATER ANATOLIA SME LOAN                                     50.000.000 EUR     22.10.2010
    EIB LOAN FOR MIDCAPS AND SMEs                                   150.000.000 EUR      28.06.2012
    AFD SME LOAN-1                                                    50.000.000 EUR     13.04.2006
    AFD SME LOAN-2                                                    80.000.000 EUR     19.02.2008
    AFD ENERGY                                                      100.000.000 EUR      24.03.2011
    CEB SME LOAN                                                    100.000.000 EUR      31.10.2011
    CEB SME LOAN (HALK LEASING)                                       50.000.000 EUR     29.05.2012
    ECOBANK SME LOAN                                                  15.000.000 USD     11.02.2009

Table 2: Halkbank Eurobond Issuances

             Halkbank-List of Eurobonds Issuances
    Amount      Currency Origination Date Maturity Date
    750.000.000 USD       19.07.2012        19.07.2017
    750.000.000 USD       05.02.2013        05.02.2020




33.     Procurement: As part of the regular implementation support for the project,
targeted reviews were conducted to ensure that the project’s procurement and contracting
processes were in line with the loan agreements and adhered to the procedures defined in the
operations manuals. Overall, the reviews found that the beneficiaries undertook all
procurements in accordance with established private sector or commercial practices
acceptable to the Bank. There are no international competitive bidding (ICB) contracts to be
reviewed. All reviewed contracts were below the commercial practice threshold specified in
the loan agreement. However, there were a few ineligible expenditures that were promptly
corrected. For example, one of the reviews observed that while the purchase of used
equipment is not eligible for financing out of the loan in accordance with annex-8 of the PAD,
some of the goods procured were secondhand. The borrowers replaced these expenditures
with eligible ones.




6
 EIB SME Recovery Support Loan, EIB Greater Anatolia SME Loan, AFD SME Loan 1 and 2, AFD
Energy Loan and ECO Bank SME Loan did not have a Treasury Guarantee.


                                               8
                                         FINAL DRAFT

34. In the later stages of project implementation, Halkbank faced some difficulty in
finding creditworthy clients in the underserved regions. The SME 1 project was the
precursor to a number of similar credit-line interventions in Turkey, including several
supported by the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development. As with SME I, these operations to some extent were also designed to channel
funds to SME sub-borrowers in underserved areas, which led to some saturation and may
have resulted in a marginal worsening of asset quality in Halkbank’s project portfolio.
Moreover, Halkbank reports that changes introduced into the operations manual in 2011 to
clarify environmental safeguard requirements might have led to higher transaction costs and
thus less demand for funding, particularly for investment purposes.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation, and Utilization

35. The project’s monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework for “improving
Turkish access to medium-term finance? was based on proximate outcome indicators of
project performance, that is, the number of SMEs and SME portfolios financed under the
project; share of medium-term financing (more than 12 months) in the total SME loan
portfolio financed under the project; nonperforming loan ratios for the project; share of the
credit line disbursed in local currency under the project; and the number of provinces with
active SME clients financed under the project.

36. The project outcome indicators were effectively monitored throughout the project.
Each supervision mission aide-mémoire presented a summary of the financial performance
that included amounts disbursed, number of SMEs financed, geographic distribution of loans,
level of nonperforming loans if any, amount of loans disbursed in local currency, and
distribution of loans between investment and working-capital purposes. Since the PDO (and
most intermediate) indicators related to the borrowers’ performance in disbursing the
borrowed funds, the outcome indicators were readily available and easy to monitor.

37.      Other indicators of the project’s impact on the ultimate beneficiaries (SMEs
sales and employment data) and on the participating banks (use of new lending
technologies, expansion of SME business using own funds) were not systematically
collected and reported throughout the life of the project. Instead, in 2011, the World Bank
commissioned an enterprise survey by an independent firm to assess the outcomes of the
World Bank-financed credit lines in Turkey (SME I & II and EFIL I-IV) 7. The study was
based on a survey of some 400 EFIL and SME beneficiary firms, and 200 control firms.
Acknowledging the methodological limitations of endogeneity in program participation (the
so-called “selection bias?), crowding-out effects, and unobserved characteristics of firms, the
study concluded that overall, the EFIL and SME credit lines had a positive impact on
beneficiary SMEs. In addition, using a sample of 166 clients of Halkbank in SME 1&2 which
received loans between 2006 and 2009, Bank staff carried out a comparison of client
performance during 2006-2008, using the 2009 clients as a control group. 8 No evaluation was
conducted of the impact of the credit lines on lending practices of participating banks and the
extent to which SME lending was established as a core line of their business.

38. There are inherent difficulties in evaluating credit lines. Ideally, an evaluation of the
impact of a credit line on the performance of SME beneficiaries would require a randomized
experiment, including a control group that is similar in all respects to the target group except
for access to credit. This is notoriously difficult to do since the commercial interest of the
participating bank is to grant credit to all creditworthy and qualified SMEs as long as funding



7
    World Bank (2011), “EFIL and SME Credit Line Project: An Assessment of Outcomes?.
8
    World Bank (2011), Improving Conditions for SME Growth: Innovation and Finance.


                                                 9
                                       FINAL DRAFT

is available. Likewise, the impact of bridge financing on the development of financial access
conditions for SMEs more generally, through improved lending practices by participating
banks, and through increased competition by providing firms access to a greater variety of
lending products, is difficult to measure robustly. Given these methodological difficulties, the
monitoring and evaluation framework was kept simple although the above reported ex post
evaluations provided some additional information. The failure to collect systematically
information on PFI lending technologies, as intended in the PAD, was a missed opportunity,
however, given the project’s objective to improve SME access to credit. As the financial
markets in Turkey further mature, more robust M&E frameworks for IFI funded lines of
credit are recommended to ascertain additionality and avoid market distortions.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

39. Overall, safeguard and fiduciary compliance was satisfactory during the project
period. The well-developed operational manual and experienced PIU staff helped ensure the
effective implementation of safeguards and fiduciary compliance. Periodically, the World
Bank team reviewed the systems established by the PIU to monitor the implementation of the
project and selected samples that would be verified at the branch level. On field visits, World
Bank staff met with the branch managers or the customer relationship officers in the branches,
reviewed the files and documents of selected beneficiary SMEs, and visited their projects. In
general, compliance was positive.

40. However, meeting the World Bank compliance standards was not without its
challenges. To start with, the borrowers had to dedicate significant resources to meeting the
project’s safeguard and fiduciary requirements. This effort was necessary because their pre-
project loan appraisal and monitoring practices, particularly those related to safeguard and
fiduciary requirements but also financial viability assessments, did not match World Bank
requirements in many respects.

41. During implementation, some of the challenges that the borrowers had to
overcome included the following:

    •   Financial management: During the January 2010 field review, the World Bank team
        observed that although all loans were subject to the review of the internal controllers
        or auditors on a continuous basis, in some cases the controllers focused on the
        implementation of the general loan procedures of Halkbank and sometimes omitted
        checking the eligibility of invoices declared in the invoice list. In other instances,
        branches financed ineligible invoices. In all cases, errors were corrected, and a
        corrective action plan was discussed and agreed to, thus minimizing the risk of future
        occurrence.
    • Procurement: Overall, both banks followed the procurement procedures agreed to in
        the loan agreement and the operations manual. A few ineligible expenditures
        identified during procurement reviews were promptly addressed by the participating
        banks.
2.5 Environmental safeguards: While Turkish environmental safeguards requirements are
    relatively stringent, they differed from World Bank requirements, particularly for
    Category B projects. These projects mostly involve investment in physical expansion, for
    which Turkish legislation does not mandate the preparation of an environmental
    management plan. This “discrepancy? actually required an adjustment of the operations
    manual in 2011 for the purpose of clarification. Since the remaining portion of the loan at
    that time was earmarked for underserved areas and the local Halkbank branches had
    access to financing from other international financial institutions (IFIs) that did not
    require the same environmental safeguards—it seems that they opted to use the World
    Bank loan only for working-capital requirements.
2.6 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase


                                              10
                                        FINAL DRAFT



42.     Including the SME 1 project, the World Bank has provided 11 credit lines to
Turkish banks over the past 10 years, amounting to some US$4 billion in commitments.
These projects have focused on providing financing to exporters (four projects, EFILs,
US$1.75 billion), SMEs (two projects, US$1.2 billion), and energy sector enterprises (two
projects, US$1.1 billion). The World Bank has now made direct loans to state and private
banks—with the Turkish Treasury providing guarantees—which then on-lend the funds to
enterprises either directly or through a subsidiary participating financial institution. In all of
these projects, the main development objective has continued to be providing medium- and
long-term finance to enterprises in these sectors. This objective continues to be relevant,
given that the maturity structure of bank balance sheets has shifted only very gradually and
SMEs continue to point to financing as a dominant constraint for their expansion. However,
the role of IFIs as providing bridge financing increasingly needs to take into account the
broader picture and seek to enhance the sustainability of results through parallel technical
assistance activities and advisory work, through leveraging their funds with market resources
and through more robust monitoring frameworks.

43.      In 2012, the Government requested the World Bank to follow up with an SME
credit line in the form of a US$300 million wholesale investment loan to Ziraat Bank, for
intermediation through private retail banks. It was proposed that the wholesale credit line,
guaranteed by the Government would be intermediated by Ziraat Bank, which in turn would
on-lend funds through PFIs, which could be commercial banks or leasing companies (at the
time of this implementation completion report, the preparation of this project was in
progress). The new SME line reflects some of the lessons learned over the past decade: it
returns to a wholesaling model to ensure additionality of resources, it suggests the
incorporation of leasing companies and second tier participating financial institutions to push
out the supply curve for term funding and increase competition, and it suggests leveraging
Bank funds with co-financing and the more explicit use of reflows.

44.      The long-term development impact of the credit lines on beneficiary SMEs and
on the market for SME lending more generally is likely to be positive, even though a
rigorous evaluation is missing to date. The 2011 study “EFIL and SME Credit Line Project:
An Assessment of Outcomes? surveyed final borrowers, some 400 EFIL and SME
beneficiaries and 200 control firms. It concluded that the credit lines were successful in
targeting the medium-to-long-term working-capital and investment finance needs of exporters
and SMEs. In particular, a high proportion of SMEs cited the availability of longer-term
financing as the key benefit of participation and expressed overall high satisfaction with the
credit lines. The recent Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) reviews of ICRs for the EFIL I,
II, and III series also concurred, with rating outcomes of satisfactory, highly satisfactory, and
highly satisfactory, respectively.

45.     A renewed effort to evaluate the impact of SME credit lines is now under way. In
2013, the World Bank, in consultation with the authorities, commenced preparations for an
impact evaluation framework that would use a combination of experimental, non-
experimental and qualitative methods to understand whether and how SME III impacts
outcomes at the PFI and SME level. Particularly, the IE will ask whether offering longer-term
maturity funds to PFIs (i) increases the maturity of the loans provided to SMEs; (ii) changes
the composition of SMEs that receive loans (e.g., new SMEs, new products to the same type
of SMEs), and (iii) improves SMEs growth and performance.




3. Assessment of Outcomes


                                               11
                                                FINAL DRAFT



3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

46.     The project proved highly relevant to Turkey’s development priorities. The
project design reflected the identified financing constraints facing SMEs and through the
provision of bridge financing through two participating financial institutions was able to
contribute to the alleviation of such constraints for beneficiary SMEs as attested in surveys of
beneficiaries. 9

47.      The design of SME1 and its rapid scaling up during the financial crisis provided
a key tool for effective crisis response. The crisis highlighted the need for a quick
disbursement instrument and the provision of counter-cyclical term funding to SMEs allowed
Halkbank to maintain its pool of SME clients and support them through the cycle. Compared
to other financial intermediation loans, SME1 was one of the fastest disbursing during the
crisis, attesting to its robust design (see Table 3). The first additional finance for the project
was fully disbursed within nine months of going into effect, and a third of the second
additional finance of the same project was also disbursed within nine months after going into
effect. Moreover, additional resources from other international financial institutions allowed
the project’s impact to be leveraged by replicating its design.

Table 3. Disbursement of Financial Intermediation Loans Approved during the Crisis
    Country                      Loan         Approved          Approval to           9          12      To March
                                 Credit         Date            Effectiveness       months     months.   31, 2011
                                  US$                              (weeks)           (%)        (%)         (%)
    Armenia Access to              50        02/04/2009               7              50.3       50.3       60.0
    Finance for SMEs
    Bosnia Enhancing SME           70        12/15/2009              27               0.2        4.0        12
    Access to Finance
    Croatia Export Finance         141       08/04/2009              16               15.3      37.4       62.8
    Turkey SMEs Additional         200       12/09/2008              5                90.7      100        100
    Financing 1
    Turkey SMEs Additional         250       12/15/2010               5               32.5      32.5       77.2
    Financing 1
Source: IEG (2012) The World Bank Group’s Response to the Global Economic Crisis, World Bank


48.     Two factors contributed to the good disbursement performance of SME1 even in
crisis conditions. First, the financial institutions that received the money had the experience
and capacity to disburse the loans quickly and were also familiar with World Bank processes.
Second, the decision to include Halkbank, a state-owned bank, as a retail lending in the
project was fortuitous. State banks are more tolerant of risk during such periods compared to
private banks (Global Financial Sector Development Report, 2012). As the balance sheets of
private banks deteriorated and they curtailed their lending activities, many countries used
state-owned banks to step up their financing to the private sector (for example, Brazil, China,
and Germany). Other countries have used guarantees to encourage continued private sector
lending or conditioned access to cheap central bank financing for onlending to the real sector.
Over the medium-term, such direct state support to the economy will need to be wound down
to avoid entrenching distortions in the allocation of financial resources. However, in the
context of an unprecedented international liquidity crisis, SME1 proved an agile and robust
instrument for countercyclical support.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives (see Annex 2)



9
 The 2011 external evaluation included self-assessment of client SMEs which is overwhelmingly
positive. World Bank (2011), Turkey: EFIL and SME Credit Line Projects. An Assessment of
Outcomes.


                                                          12
                                         FINAL DRAFT



49. Against the project development indicators selected and monitored, the project
met the stated development objective of improving Turkish SMEs’ access to medium
and long-term finance. In absolute terms, the PDO indicator results were impressive. By
project’s end, more than US$700 million equivalent in project funds were fully disbursed to
SMEs for both working-capital and investment purposes. Notwithstanding the size of the
Turkish economy in general, and the size of the balance sheets of the banks through which the
project was intermediated, the financial resources directed at SMEs were substantial.

50. However, outcome indicators chosen were insufficient to draw conclusions
regarding the impact of the project on SME credit access more generally. The project
chose to measure the impact on SME access to medium-term financing through the share of
loans exceeding one year in the SME lending portfolio of the participating banks. However,
all SME1 loans exceeded one-year in maturity by definition. Hence, no conclusions can be
drawn on whether the project influenced the maturity structure of PFI lending to SMEs over
and above the bridge financing provided.

51. Other indicators were either not measured or inappropriately specified. The target
outcome of “providing local currency loans to SMEs? was not consistent with the design of
the local currency swap option in the project as a risk hedging device. This was not meant to
increase local currency lending per se, but rather to provide better risk management to
participating banks. In the end, local loans amounting to US$18 million were made to
underserved regions, with the banks taking the foreign exchange risk (that is, there was no
corresponding foreign exchange swap transaction). As a general lesson, local currency
lending should remain subject to the prevailing market conditions and the treasury
management decisions of individual firms. Consequently, the intermediate indicator of the
share of local currency loans was dropped from SME2 whilst the conversion option was
retained. As mentioned earlier, indicators for the adoption of new lending technologies by
PFIs were not measured, and no conclusions can be drawn regarding this intermediate
indicator.

52.      In view of the shortcomings of the original monitoring framework, the World
Bank undertook an external evaluation of its credit line portfolio in 2011 10 . The
evaluation covered 318 clients under EFIL III and SME 1&2. The sample included 201 SME
1 clients and 149 SMEs as a control group. The evaluation was unable to control for selection
biases and is thus indicative only. It included both qualitative self-evaluation and quantitative
comparative results. The self-assessment of SME clients suggested the credit line was broadly
additional, with only a quarter of surveyed firms indicating funding in the full amount
requested would have been available from other sources. Three quarters of SME clients
highlighted the longer maturities provided under the credit line as a key benefit. SME 1
clients claimed to have been able to save 410 jobs as a result of access to the facility. Close to
95 percent of SME1 clients declared to be either satisfied or very satisfied with the project.
Compared to the control group, SME 1 clients reported greater product and process
innovation, higher capacity utilization, and higher rates of investment. Among the SME
control group, far fewer enterprises access bank lending, but when they do, the maturity
structure appears to be similar. This indicates that PFIs have structured their loans broadly in
accordance with market conditions. There is no detailed information on collateral
requirements or lending techniques employed by PFIs in the external evaluation.

53.     A subsequent Bank report used a similar client base, but included a different
control group to gauge the impact of the credit line on SME recipients. This report, also


10
     World Bank (2011), Turkey: EFIL and SME Credit Line Projects. An Assessment of Outcomes.



                                                 13
                                                         FINAL DRAFT

completed in 2011, was based on a sample consisting of all 166 firms which received a loan
from Halkbank through the SME 1&2 project between 2007 and 2009. SMEs that received a
credit in 2007 and 2008 were the target group and their employment and sales performance
was measured against the control group of all SME 1&2 clients that received their loan from
Halkbank in 2009. While there are still multiple firm characteristics that remain uncontrolled
and thus bias the results, since both groups of firms did in principle comply with the
qualification criteria and were selected by Halkbank for a loan, this procedure mitigates some
of the methodological problems encountered in the external evaluation. The main results are
shown in Figure 1 and Table 4.

54.     The evaluation
hypothesized that if the     Figure 1: Median growth rates (2006-2008), employment
program               was  and sales for firms that received loans in 2007, 2008 and 2009
successful, firms that             20              18                              19
received loans in 2007             18
and 2008 were expected             16
                                             13                       13
to grow more quickly               14
between 2006 and 2008              12                                        11
                                               Percent




than firms that received           10
loans in 2009. The                  8                     7
preliminary      evidence           6
from these comparisons              4
suggested that firms that           2
received loans in 2007              0
and 2008 outperformed                       Employment Growth           Sales Growth
firms that did not receive
loans until 2009 in terms                            2007    2008 2009
of employment growth
(Figure 1) but not for
                           Source: Own calculations based upon Halkbank data.
sales (see Table 4 for a Note: Sales data are deflated by GDP deflator
summary        of      the
measured effects and Annex 3 for the details of the methodology used for the evaluation).
The results are evidence for the important crisis-mitigation effect of the credit line, as
also confirmed by the self-evaluation of SME clients. The borrowers’ evaluation of
SME1 included in Annex 4 suggests that a total of 9500 jobs were created as a result
of SME1.

    Table 4: Summary of Measured Effects SME 1&2 Credit Lines
Effect on                                  SME data

Employment                                                      15 employment growth and the effect is sustained
                                                                over time.
Sales                                                           No significant effect found.
Exports                                                         Not measured.
Investments                                                     210 percent higher investment in the year a loan
                                                                was received.
  Notes: Only statistically significant results are reported.



Rating: Satisfactory.

55. The project met its development objectives. It helped the Government increase the
amount of medium-term financing and scale up support to the real economy fast at a time of
growing global constraints on credit. The project helped client SMEs maintain a reasonable
level of activity and avoid major layoffs. While the monitoring and evaluation framework,


                                                                14
                                         FINAL DRAFT

particularly with respect to measuring the impact of the project on the PFIs, was insufficient
to draw robust conclusions regarding all dimensions of project outcomes, a significant effort
was made towards the end of the project to measure the outcomes on final SME beneficiaries.
Given the broadly positive results of this evaluation, the overall satisfactory rating is justified.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

56. Specific poverty, gender, and social development indicators were not collected
during and after the implementation of the project. Still, although the project was not
designed specifically to deal with poverty or gender issues, it is highly likely that it
contributed to positive results particularly on social and poverty outcomes, given the
significant importance of SMEs for employment in Turkey, and the specific effects of the
credit line on employment in client firms reported above.

(b) Institutional Change and Strengthening

57. Although it is not possible to attribute credit to this specific project for the
maturity structure of the financial institution, it is instructive, but not conclusive, that
Halkbank’s average loan maturity increased rapidly after it strengthened its
collaboration with IFIs during the project’s life. The size of the balance sheets makes
specific claims in this regard overambitious but not implausible. A demonstration effect was
likely in play as bank managers, especially in the bank’s branches, implemented the project
and developed a greater willingness to take on loans with longer maturity. During the period
of project implementation there is evidence that, for Halkbank, the average maturity of SME
loans increased (see Table 4 below), the bank was able to raise syndicated loans for its
business as well as issue several international bonds (as discussed in Section 2.2) In the
absence of a comprehensive impact assessment, this conclusion is necessarily speculative,
however.

        Table 4: Average Maturity (Days): Halkbank SME Loan Portfolio
                               Average Maturity (Days)
         Dates             Total             Loans Extended
                         Liabilities          to Customers
         12/31/2008         90                     492
         12/31/2009         118                    527
         12/31/2010         123                    607
         12/31/2011         134                    645
         12/31/2012         138                    598

58. To varying degrees, both Halkbank and TSKB strengthened some aspects of their
internal procedures as a result of working with the World Bank on the project.
Specifically, these changes included:


    •       Credit appraisal: The project helped streamline the banks’ procedures for
            appraising project finance for firms. Halkbank integrated its system for appraising
            investment loans into its rating-based system for appraising working-capital loans.

    •       Computerization of systems: Some of the procedures for loan processing (for
            example, loan pricing and repricing) were done manually. For instance, Halkbank
            formerly repriced its 60-month variable-rate loans manually, which led to slippages.


                                                15
                                          FINAL DRAFT

             By establishing IT platforms for processing loans, the banks enhanced their
             interaction with firms and minimized their risk of errors.

      •      Leveraging resources: Their experience with the World Bank lines of credit made
             it easier for the banks to leverage additional resources from other international
             financial institutions. The risk management departments of the PFIs became
             sophisticated during the life of the project, and credit officers appreciated the
             advantage of longer-term funding for their clients. During the life of the project and
             after, the banks increased their SME portfolios with IFIs as discussed in Section
             2.2. IFIs.

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

59.       None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low.

60.     Although the amounts disbursed under this particular project are low compared to the
balance sheets of the participating banks and to the overall economy of Turkey, the
demonstration impact on SME finance is significant, and its effects on the participating
financial institutions are sustainable. This conclusion is based on the following factors:

      •    Replicability: The core design of the credit lines in Turkey has not changed
           substantially. In subsequent credit lines (either for exports or SMEs) by the World
           Bank and other IFIs, some features have been tweaked to enhance performance, but at
           its core the basic model has been tried, and all parties have gained experience in
           ensuring its effectiveness.

      •    Demand: There is continuing demand from firms for medium-term financing.
           Halkbank was able to find new clients for reflows (US$180 million) during the life of
           the project. This feature was considered a sustainable element of this type of
           operation, warranting explicit inclusion in the design of the proposed SME III
           operation.

61. Going forward options for leveraging the development impact of projects of this type
across the economy may need to be identified. While being a very effective tool in the past
decade, the pace of IFI bridge financing may not be sustained in the long run. Means must be
found to (i) leverage IFI resources with greater commercial funding, which is increasingly
available at longer terms, and pushing such funding towards more risky market segments, (ii)
increase the availability of domestic longer term savings instruments so that the competition
for term funding is increased and reliance on external resources reduced, and (iii) create a
sustained demand for investment financing from domestic SMEs, including increasingly
small and micro firms, by improving the investment climate and levels of financial
transparency. This will require policies that support a better business environment more
generally. Such policies would include, but not be limited to, strengthening the legal
environment for contract enforcement (creditor claims, for example) and improving the
transparency of SMEs. In this regard, Turkey’s adoption of the new commercial code in 2011
is an important development.


                                                 16
                                       FINAL DRAFT


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

62.      The project design reflected a substantial level of strategic relevance at the time of
project preparation. The team’s responsiveness to the request to restructure the project soon
after Board approval ensured smooth subsequent implementation. However, it is also
important to highlight that there was a trade-off in responding positively to the request to
move to a retail lending model rather than the original wholesale model. Although the team
was able to get the project moving quickly and avoid losing TSKB as a partner in the project,
the team did so at the risk of agreeing to a less convincing design in terms of ensuring
additionally and involving leasing companies and second tier financial institutions. In SME
III, the World Bank has made the decision to return to a wholesale financing model.

63.      A 2008 quality assessment review similarly concluded that the project’s overall
quality of design (strategic relevance and approach, realism of project design and risks,
fiduciary safeguards, and Governance and Corruption (GAC) aspects was satisfactory. The
two reservations in the review were that (1) allowing TSKB to provide a retail rather than a
wholesale facility reduced the potential number of financial intermediaries that could have
been attracted to the project; and (2) the project failed to facilitate as much local currency
lending as desirable. Despite these reservations, the review concluded that the project design
was realistic and that the loan quickly became effective. Additionally, before the end of the
project, local currency lending was facilitated.

64.      The overall moderately satisfactory rating reflects the weaknesses in the monitoring
and evaluation framework, which do not allow robust conclusions to be drawn about the
impact of the credit line on access to finance conditions for SMEs beyond the immediate
impact of having disbursed the loan. This is a weakness in the design that ought to be rectified
in future credit line operations.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory.

65.      The Bank provided thorough and effective support for the implementation of the
project, meriting a satisfactory rating for the following reasons:

    •   The field-based presence of a financial sector specialist provided the client real-time
        support and allowed for greater proactivity in resolving potential problems. Similarly,
        the PIU very much appreciated the local presence of the fiduciary staff.
    •   The team led frequent implementation support missions that regularly included
        meetings with the staff and management of both banks involved in their projects,
        including bank-branch management. In total, the mission conducted at least 12 formal
        implementation support missions over the project’s life.
    •   Significantly, each implementation support mission included field visits to
        beneficiaries in different regions; these visits included discussions with loan
        recipients on both the loan process and the effects of the financing on their business.
    •   All missions, including the mid-term review, were on schedule, and aide-mémoires
        were thorough and generally candid. Generally, the nine Implementation Status and
        Results (ISR) Reports prepared for the project between July 2007 and June 11, 2012,


                                              17
                                        FINAL DRAFT

        were filed regularly. The ratings for project components and project management
        were consistent with the performance of the project.

66.     The only blemish on this strong performance was the weakness in the intermediate
outcome indicators selected for the results framework. The problem associated with these
outcome indicators has been discussed. Given the underlying premise that the credit line
strengthened institutional interest in sustaining SME business even in the absence of a World
Bank instrument, failure to collect additional data on the participating financial institutions
was a missed opportunity.

67.      In 2008, a Quality Assessment of the Lending Portfolio (QALP) Assessment
concluded that supervision of the project to be moderately satisfactory. There are two
issues. The panel felt that greater attention should have been given to exchange rate risk both
for the sub-borrowers and Halkbank. In addition, lending by Halkbank (and correspondingly
disbursement of the Bank loan) was expanding much faster than overall financial sector
lending to SMEs, which actually contracted in 2009. Such rapid disbursement of funds in the
face of slow growth in total SME lending in 2008 and actually decline in 2009 might, they
argued, have indicated that the sub-loans, because of cheaper pricing, were substituting for
loans from other sources. The interest rates charged by Halkbank and TSKB appear to have
been substantially below rates charged by commercial banks on foreign exchange loans and
only a fraction of the rates on TL denominated loans. Both these issues should have been
examined in supervision and the possibility of ways to expand on-lending in local currency
re-examined.

68.      This ICR concludes that supervision of the project as satisfactory. This assessment
differs with the QAG conclusion on both counts used to justify the QALP rating. Firstly, the
fact that lending under the program was faster than overall sector lending to SME is not
evidence of a substitution effect. Rather, it confirms that the Government countercyclycial
actions in the face of the financial crisis were in fact working. For the substitution effect to be
valid, one would have to show that overall lending to SMEs was declining because of the
credit and not, as is the case here, in spite of the credit. Equally important is the behavior of
the loan portfolio of the bank rather than the sector. This was a general slowdown in lending
across the economy and cannot be attributed to the credit line. If any direct attribution is to be
assigned the line of credit, it is that it may have contributed to mitigating the slowdown in
SME lending at Halkbank. Like other banks, it’s overall SME portfolio also declined but to a
lesser degree. Halkbank maintained more than 40 percent of the banking sector loan growth
of TL 14.6 billion between Sep 2008 - Sep. 2009 period in which the global crisis showed its
negative effect severely (see Table 5).




                                                18
                                        FINAL DRAFT

Table 5 SECTOR and Halkbank SME Loan                                                  Million
Growth                                                                                TL
                                                          Sep.0 Sep.0
HALKBANK                                                    8     9   Diff.           Diff.%
                                                          11.63 11.55
SME Loans                                                     1     7 -74                    -0,6
SME NPL                                                     879   618 -261                  -29,7
SME NPL (%)                                                7,03  5,07 -1,95
                                                                                      Million TL
                                                          Sep.0    Sep.0
SECTOR*                                                     8        9   Diff.        Diff.%
                                                                             -
                                                           86.82   81.69 5.12
SME Loans                                                      1       4     6               -5,9
                                                                         2.89
SME NPL                                                    3.800   6.697     7               76,2
SME NPL (%)                                                 4,19    7,58 3,38
     *BRSA monthly.

69.       Secondly, the argument that there was insufficient lending in local currency is a
failure of project design rather than supervision. The option to provide loans in local currency
was included in the project as a hedge against currency mismatch risk. The fact that the hedge
was not exercised (for whatever reason) does not suggest the project failed. The projects
‘failure in design’ was in not making this more explicit in the project appraisal document. It
left the impression that local currency lending as a desirable end in its self by including in the
M&E framework as a performance indicator. But this was contrary to the principal of
flexibility that is essential in effective lines of credit. Local currency lending should not be
subject to explicit targets. It is a risk management option that should be determined on a case
by case basis in agreement between the commercial banks and the SME as they discuss and
negotiate the appropriate credit and currency risks in accordance with prevailing market
conditions.

70.     Finally, a satisfactory supervision rating is also justified by the considerable effort
extended by the Bank during the final years of implementation to collect additional data on
the impact of the credit lines. Methodological difficulties with such an ex post evaluation
notwithstanding; this has allowed this ICR to draw on a much richer set of data.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall World Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

71.      Taking into account the moderately satisfactory rating of design and the satisfactory
rating of supervision, the overall rating for Bank performance is Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

72. Government performance is rated satisfactory because of the Government’s strong
ownership of the project and commitment to its objectives. This has been demonstrated by its
willingness to provide a guarantee to a private bank to participate in the project and its


                                               19
                                       FINAL DRAFT

commitment to the privatization of Halkbank, which reaffirmed its commitment to
strengthening private sector provision of finance in the economy. Strong commitment from
the Treasury also ensured that the credit-line instrument was leveraged with other
development partners.

73. Equally important, the Government also recognized that the long-term sustainability of
this and similar initiatives was affected by broader Government reforms of the financial sector.
The Government has put in place measures to improve the business environment and maintain
macroeconomic stability. It has also rightly resisted the urge (prevalent in difficult economic
times) to meddle in the private sector with directed credit, interest rate caps for SMEs, and
other often well-intended but blunt instruments. Instead, it has focused its efforts on pursuing
the macroeconomic policies and structural reforms that have yielded robust economic growth.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

74. Overall, performance of the Project Implementation Unit was satisfactory. It took
significant capacity to coordinate the number of individual SME loans that the project
financed and to ensure compliance with fiduciary standards. The project management unit
promptly discussed and addressed shortcomings in compliance identified in financial
management and procurement reviews. Specifically, the experience and competence of the
fiduciary staff throughout ensured the satisfactory implementation of the project. Although
strained at times by the sheer volume of transactions, the fiduciary staff implemented
corrective measures, including, for example, automating previously manual monitoring
systems. Prudent management of disbursement is especially noteworthy.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

75. Based on the satisfactory ratings of the Government performance and of the
implementation agency, the overall rating for borrower performance is satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

76.   Key lessons for the World Bank are:

77. Flexibility during project design and implementation is critical to successful
outcomes. When a project is designed, it is not possible to envision all potential scenarios.
Being able to change activities and add resources in response to changing circumstances is
essential. The Bank decided to restructure project design early on in the interest of providing
funding to the ultimate beneficiaries quickly, although this came at the cost of reducing the
project’s potential impact on the market for term lending by reducing the range of
participating banks. In retrospect, this decision was appropriate at the time and fortuitous
since it created a vehicle to rapidly scale up and disburse funds to SMEs during the ensuing
economic crisis. However, during more normal times, a wholesale design should be preferred
and should be the rule for subsequent credit line operations.

78. Stronger attention to monitoring and evaluation is needed to demonstrate the
sustainability and long-term impact of credit lines, particularly after a decade of using a
broadly similar approach. The Bank missed an opportunity to strengthen the intermediate
outcome indicators: other indicators could have better reflected the impact of the project on
financial institutions practices and thus the sustainability of the SME lending business, once
IFI funding is increasingly less additional. An evaluation framework to capture the impact of


                                              20
                                       FINAL DRAFT

IFI financed credit lines on the ultimate beneficiaries among SMEs, particularly those
guaranteed by the Government, would also be desirable.

79. Implementation support missions work best when they include regular field visits
to bank branches and beneficiaries. The implementation support missions regularly
identified opportunities for strengthening the project program when Bank staff interacted with
the PFI staff who were implementing the project and were closest to the beneficiaries. It was
often then that Bank staff identified areas in financial management and procurement
procedures that could be improved. The feedback from beneficiaries was especially
instructive in evaluating the performance of development partners.

80.      Credit line operations have substantial leveraging potential. During the life of the
project, the simplicity of the design and the experience gained by the banks contributed to
their ability to attract additional financing from other international financial institutions.
Going forward, other approaches to increase leverage, such as partial credit risk guarantees
(PCGs) and co-financing requirements, should also be explored. Both instruments increase
the amount of funding available to SME clients for each IBRD dollar investment in the
project. PCGs enable banks to raise funds from the international markets with improved terms
than what would be possible by the bank on its own creditworthiness under market
conditions. The structures allow the borrower to secure the much-needed financing at
reasonable costs, while also minimizing transaction risk in a climate of volatility. In addition,
the targeted volume is matched against the bank’s ability to support project beneficiaries
quickly and efficiently. Co-financing arrangements ensure that the participating financial
institution complements borrowed funds with resources from its own balance sheet. In the
face of limited IBRD resources, leveraging funds through such instrument should be
encouraged whenever possible.

81. Lending quotas for financing underserved regions are inefficient. As desirable as it
is to ensure that traditionally underserved regions are carefully considered for such projects,
the focus needs to be on providing relevant information, improving access, and giving special
consideration to the loan application process rather than on imposing regional lending targets
or quotas. During the last year of the project, it was clear that Halkbank was struggling to
meet the geographical disbursement requirements, particularly after several other
international institutions also targeted the same areas. Allowing both banks to lend to the
entire country provided them with greater flexibility to place loans and increase competition,
which in turn helped achieve the project’s objectives.

82. Upfront training and capacity building on World Bank fiduciary standards for
environmental, procurement, and financial management is essential for efficient
delivery. As a result of careful implementation support, problems in implementing the project
because of fiduciary standards were identified early, and appropriate changes were made to
the project implementation manual. The process resulted in capacity building for the financial
institutions, which will stand both Halkbank and TSKB in good stead in future operations. As
a result of this experience, a key lesson learned is the importance of spending time both
before the project begins and early in its implementation to review and identify potential
conflicts in fiduciary standards. Another lesson is that changes mid-way through project
implementation, such as became necessary with the environmental assessment frameworks,
create significant uncertainty and may thus negatively affect project implementation.
Particularly in the area of environmental safeguards, the Bank has invested significant
resources to build capacity and prevent similar experiences in the future.




                                               21
                                  FINAL DRAFT


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrowers, Implementing Agencies, and
Partners

(a) Borrowers and Implementing Agencies

See Annex 5.

(b) Cofinanciers

None.

(c) Other Partners and Stakeholders

None




                                          22
                                                     FINAL DRAFT



Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

     (a) Table A1.1: Project Cost by Component

            US$ millions equivalent
                                                   Appraisal                 Actual/Latest
                                                                                               Percentage of
             Components                            Estimate                    Estimate
                                                                                                Appraisal
                                                 (US$ millions)              (US$ millions)

Total baseline cost                                             246.91                700.00              283.50
 Physical contingencies                                           0.00                  0.00                0.00
 Price contingencies                                              0.00                  0.00                0.00
Total project costs                                             246.91                700.00               283.5
 Credit line                                                    246.46                700.00              284.02
 Project preparation fund                                         0.00                  0.00                 .00
 Front-end fee IBRD                                              0.45a                  0.00                 .00
Total financing required                                        246.91                700.00               283.5
a. The amount is estimated based on the exchange rate as of signing.


Table A1.2: Project Cost by Financing
                                                                        Appraisal Actual/Lates
                                                     Type of                                          Percentage
             Source of Funds                                             Estimate      t Estimate
                                                   Cofinancing                                       of Appraisal
                                                                       (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
Borrower                                                                         0.00           0.00          .00
World Bank                                                                   246.91         700.00a         283.5
     a.    As a result of two additional financings, this amount was increased.




                                                              23
                                         FINAL DRAFT


Annex 2. Outputs by Component


TABLE A2.1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK


Project Development Objective Indicators

Indicator Name                                Baseline       End-April 2012         End Target
                                                          (a) 745 (Halkbank) &
                                                  (a) 0                               (a) 500
Number of SMEs and value of subloans                           56 (TSKB)
made available by borrowers to SMEs
under the project                                          (b) US$160 million&
                                                               €310.2 million          (b) Full
                                              (b) US$0
                                                          (Halkbank) and US$48      disbursement
                                                           million & €60 million
                                                                  (TSKB)
Intermediate Results Indicators
Maturity of subloans: share of subloan
                                                   0              100%                 100%
value with maturity of at least 1 year

Currency of subloans: share of subloan                       6% (Halkbank);
                                                  0%                                 No target
value in local currency                                        0% (TSKB)

Geographical coverage: Number of                            (a) 67 (Halkbank);
                                                  (a) 0                              No target
provinces with active SME clients (a)                           22 (TSKB)
throughout the country; and (b) in the
eastern and central regions                                 (b) 44 (Halkbank);
                                                  (b) 0
                                                                 6 (TSKB)

                                                           (a) 745 (Halkbank);
Loan dispersion: number of SME clients            (a) 0                               (a) 500
                                                              (b) 56 (TSKB)
in the project (a) throughout the country
and (b) in the eastern and central regions                (b) 201 (Halkbank); (b)
                                                  (b) 0                               (b) 100
                                                                20 (TSKB)
Loan dispersion: number of loans
financed by the project (a) throughout the                 (a) 798 (Halkbank);
                                                  (a) 0                               (a) 500
country and (b) in the eastern and central                      56 (TSKB)
regions
                                                            (b) 215 (Halkbank);
                                                  (b) 0                               (b) 100
                                                                 20 (TSKB)
                                                           (a) 1.8% (Halkbank);
Project portfolio at risk - SME                   0%                                   <5%
                                                              (b) 0% (TSKB)




                                             24
                                               FINAL DRAFT


      Table A2.2: Breakdown of Subloans by Sector and Loan Size, Halkbank

                                                                 Share of total             Number
                                               Amount                                                         Share
                                                                 bank lending                  of
                                                (US$)                                                          (%)
                                                                     (%)                    Subloans
Sector
 Education                                         4,839,788                  0.8                        4        0.5
 Services                                          5,329,561                  0.9                        5        0.6
 Manufacturing                                   386,627,044                 67.8                      622       77.9
 Construction                                      3,310,699                  0.6                        6        0.8
 Mining                                            9,487,424                  1.7                       16        2.0
 Health and social                                31,407,436                  5.5                       18        2.3
 Livestock and agriculture                         7,411,341                  1.3                        9        1.1
 Commerce                                         48,549,540                  8.5                       58        7.3
 Tourism                                          72,329,208                 12.7                       58        7.3
 Telecommunication                                   557,960                  0.1                        2        0.3
 Education                                         4,839,788                  0.8                        4        0.5
 Total                                           569,850,000               100.00                      798     100.00
Loan size
 < US$ 250,000                                    24,852,151                  4.3                      142       17.7
 US$ 250,000–1,000,000                           243,210,409                 42.7                      489       61.3
 US$ 1,000,000–2,500,000                         202,904,776                 35.6                      133       16,7
 > US$ 2,500,000                                  98,882,664                 17.4                       34        4.3
 Total                                           569,850,000               100.00                      798     100.00

      Table A2.3: Breakdown of Subloans by Sector and Loan Size, TSKB
                                                                                             Number
                                                               Amount             Share         of       Share
                                                                (US$)              (%)       Subloans     (%)

   Sector
    Energy                                                       27,425,551            22          11         20
    Construction                                                 15,629,424            12           6         11
    Tourism                                                       9,848,081             8           3          5
    Rubber and plastic products                                  11,498,214             9           5          9
    Other nonmetalic mineral products                             6,603,378             5           4          7
    Basic metals and fabricated metal products                   12,837,732            10           8         14
    Marketing                                                     3,229,835             3           1          2
    Pulp, paper and paper products, publ,&printing                5,059,337             4           3          5
    Food Products                                                 5,466,959             4           3          5
    Machinery and equipment n,e,c,                                7,905,930             6           5          9
    Logistics                                                     8,351,031             7           3          5
    Chemicals                                                     6,015,282             5           2          4
    Other                                                         5,387,365             4           2          4
    Total                                                       125,258,118           100          56        100
   Loan size
    < US$250,000                                                          0            0            0          0
    US$250,000–,000,000                                           8,285,057            7           12         21
    US$1,000,000–2,500,000                                       32,730,409           26           19         34
    > US$2,500,000                                               84,242,652           67           25         45
    Total                                                       125,258,118          100           56        100




                                                     25
                                               FINAL DRAFT


Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis 11

In the Access to Finance for SMEs Project (SME Project), a long term World Bank credit line
was given to a bank with a large domestic branch presence, which enabled it to lend medium
term funds directly to SMEs.
                                   Sample description

The sample consists of all 166 firms which received a loan through the SME Access to
Finance project between 2007 and 2009. Data is available from 2006-2008. The data was
collected by Halk Bank.

Since no data is available for 2009, the firms that received a loan in 2009 cannot yet be
evaluated. Instead, since these firms qualified for the program they are a natural control group
for the firms that received loans between 2007 and 2008. This comparison of changes
between the two groups of firms is useful because it controls for the possibility that the
observed growth in sales and employment might be due to things that are external to
participation in the program. That is, without comparison to a comparator group, it would be
possible that any observed growth could be due to external economic factors that encouraged
growth in the overall economy rather than to the program itself.

                                              Summary Statistics


If the program was
successful, firms that Figure A2. 2: Median growth rates (2006-2008), employment
received loans in 2007 and sales for firms that received loans in 2007, 2008 and 2009
and 2008 are expected to            20          18                              19
grow      more     quickly          18
between 2006 and 2008               16
                                          13                       13
than firms that received            14
                                    12                                    11
loans in 2009. The
                                    Percent




preliminary      evidence           10
from these comparisons                8                7
suggests that firms that              6
received loans in 2007                4
and 2008 outperformed                 2
firms that did not receive            0
loans until 2009 in terms                Employment Growth           Sales Growth
of employment growth
                                                  2007    2008 2009
(Figure      A2.1).     In
contrast, there is less Source: Own calculations based upon Halkbank data.
evidence that sales grew Note: Sales data are deflated by GDP deflator
more quickly for firms
that received loans in 2007 and 2008.


                                   Econometric methodology




11
   In this annex, the estimated logarithmic coefficients are referred to as relative changes or growth
rates in order to keep the text simple. However, to establish regular growth rates or regular relative
changes, the coefficients should be converted with the following formula: relative change =
exponential function(logarithmic coefficient)-1.


                                                     26
                                                 FINAL DRAFT

To test in a more systematic way whether employment and sales were greater after the loan,
two-way fixed effect regressions are conducted on panel data over the period 2006 to 2008.
Changes in the economic environment, which may have affected sales, employment, or
exports across all firms in the sample, are controlled for using time dummies in the fixed
effect regression. The individual firm-level fixed effects make it possible to control
observable and unobservable firm-level characteristics that might affect program participation
and exports, sales or employment.

The base model is:

Yit = αi + γt + βDit + εit

The main variable of interest is the dummy variable, Dit, that takes the value of “1? after the
firm has received the loan and the value “0? before the firm receives the loan. For firms that
do not receive any loans between 2006 and 2008 (i.e., control firms that received loans in
2009) the dummy takes the value “0? for the whole period. A positive coefficient indicates
that employment or sales increased after the firm participated in the program.

                                                       Results

Employment. The two-way fixed effects regression confirms the results from the simple
comparison. Employment appears to be about 13 percent higher for firms that received loans
after they had received the loans (see column 1 of Table A2.1). The point estimates of the
parameters suggest that employment was even higher in the year after the loan was
received—about 18 percent higher—than in the year of the loan—about 13 percent higher.
The null hypothesis that the increase is the same in the two years, however, cannot be rejected.

Sales. The econometric analysis suggests that there is no evidence that the loans resulted in
increased sales at least in the short term, since all coefficients are insignificant.

        Table A2. 1: Two way fixed effects regression for employment and sales
                              Employment (natural log)                  Sales (natural log)
 Observations              421           421          421         445           445           445
 Has loan                0.136**                                -0.010
                          (2.06)                                (-0.09)
 Has loan (that year)                   0.055       0.135**                    0.056        -0.011
                                       (1.10)        (2.05)                   (0.66)        (-0.09)
 Has Loan (one year                                  0.182*                                 -0.153
                                                     (1.85)                                 (-0.89)
 R-squared                 0.15          0.14         0.15        0.01          0.01          0.02
***,**,* indicate significance at 1, 5, and 10 percent significance levels, respectively. t-statistics in parentheses.
Time dummies included.

Investment and Working Capital Loans. Some of the firms received working capital loans,
while others received investment loans. It is therefore possible to assess whether the different
types of loans had different effects. The results suggest that investment loans might have had
more positive results in terms of increased employment than working capital loans, since only
the dummy for investment loan is significant (Table A2.2). For sales, none of the coefficients
are significant.




                                                          27
                                                 FINAL DRAFT




Table A2. 2: Two-way fixed effects regressions for investment and working capital loans
                                     Employment (natural log)           Sales (natural log)
Observations                                    421                             445
Has investment loan                          0.204**                           0.061
                                              (2.55)                           (0.43)
Has working capital loan                       0.070                          -0.074
                                              (0.89)                          (-0.54)
R-squared                                       0.15                            0.01
***,**,* indicate significance at 1, 5, and 10 percent significance levels, respectively. t-statistics in parentheses.
Time dummies included.

Bank loans. Including an additional dummy indicating that the firm has a commercial bank
loan in that period does not affect the results. The loans still appear to affect employment and
not sales (Table A2.3).

Table A2. 3: Two-way fixed effects regression for employment and sales with control for
                                commercial bank loan
                                     Employment (natural log)           Sales (natural log)
 Observations                                  421                              445
 Has loan                                    0.139**                          -0.012
                                              (2.12)                          (-0.10)
 Has commercial bank loan                     0.160                           -0.034
                                              (1.59)                          (-0.19)
 R-squared                                     0.15                             0.01
***,**,* indicate significance at 1, 5, and 10 percent significance levels, respectively. t-statistics in parentheses.
Time dummies included.

Investment. There is some evidence that the loans led to increased investment, since the
coefficient on the dummy variable indicating that the firm received a loan in that year is
positive and statistically significant (Table A2.4). The effect appears to be temporary, since
the coefficient on the dummy variable indicating that the firm had received a loan is
insignificant.

              Table A2. 4: Two-way fixed effects regressions for investment
                                                       Investment (natural log)
 Observations                                   456                               456
 Has loan                                      0.203
                                               (0.27)
 Has loan (that year)                                                           1.130**
                                                                                 (1.99)
 R-squared                                      0.03                              0.04
***,**,* indicate significance at 1, 5, and 10 percent significance levels, respectively. t-statistics in parentheses.
Time dummies included.




                                                          28
                                   FINAL DRAFT



Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Table A4.1: Task Team Members
                                                                         Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
 Steen Byskov            Sr. Financial Sector Specialist.       LCSPF Team member
 Rodrigo A. Chaves       Sector Director                        LCSPR Team member
 Frederic Gielen         Consultant                             ECSPS Team member
 Roy C. N. Gooi          Principal Fin. Officer/Deriv.         BDMAL Financial Products
 Salih Kemal Kalyoncu    Sr. Procurement Specialist.            ECSO2 Procurement
 Hala Dajani Khattar     Sr. Financial Officer/Debt Cap        BDMDM Financial Products
 Zeynep Kudatgobilik     Consultant                             ECSPF Team member
 Rohit R. Mehta          Senior Finance Officer                LOAG1 Team member
 Margaret J. Miller      Senior Economist                      DECDP Team member
 Marialisa Motta         Sector Director                        LCSPF TTL
 Ahmet Gurhan Ozdora     Sr Operations Off.                     ECSSD Team member
 Susana M. Sanchez       Sr Financial Economist                 LCSSD Team member
 Marius Vismantas        Country Sector Coordinator             EASFP Team member
 Steven R. Weisbrod      Consultant                            LCSUW Team member
Supervision/ICR
Samuel Munzele Maimbo    Lead Financial Sector Specialist      ECSF1   Team member/TTL
Steen Byskov             Sr. Financial Sector Specialist       LCSPF   Team member/TTL
Isfandyar Khan           Sr. Financial Sector Specialist       ECSF1   Team member/TTL
Alper Oguz               Financial Sector Specialsit           ECSF1   Team member
Ruvejda Aliefendic       Consultant                            ECSF1   ICR team
Carlos Pinerua           Country Sector Coordinator            EASFP   ICR author
Zeynep Lalik             Sr. Financial Management Specialist   ECSO3   Fin. Management
Esra Arikan              Environmental Specialist              ECSEN   Environment
Salih Bugra              Procurement Specialist                ECS02   Procurement
Note: TTL = task team leader;




                                           29
                                                          FINAL DRAFT

(b) Table A4.2: Staff Time and Cost
                                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                           US$ Thousands (including
                                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lendinga
  FY03                                                                                       21.31
  FY04                                                                                        0.00
  FY05                                                                                      341.52
  FY06                                                                                      206.21
  FY07                                                                                        8.24
 FY08                                                                                         -
 FY09                                                                                        61.30
 FY10                                                                                        58.21
                                         Total:                                             696.79
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                                        0.43
  FY07                                                                                      309.48
 FY08                                                                                         -
 FY09                                                                                        11.91
 FY10                                                                                       101.81
 FY11                                                                                       101.38
 FY12                                                                                        68.23
 FY13                                                                                        45.63
                                         Total:                                             638.89
     1
a.       Includes budget for the additional financings.




                                                               30
                                       FINAL DRAFT


Annex 5. Summary of Borrowers’ ICR

Halkbank.

This report is prepared upon completion of the Access to Finance for SMEs Project, financed
by the World Bank and intermediated by Halkbank. The project will be assessed according to
the stated objectives, expected outcomes, the borrower’s and the Bank’s performance, and,
finally, the lessons learned.

Assessment of the Initial Structure

The project was originally designed to provide Turkish banks with access to medium-term
credit in both local and foreign currency for on-lending to SMEs. The rationale behind World
Bank involvement was its access to long-term funds on favorable terms and its in-depth
worldwide experience in credit-line financing. From Halkbank’s point of view, World Bank
involvement through the project contributed greatly to both its financial structure and its SME
lending. According to a study by the Halkbank Risk Management Department, average
maturity of the total liabilities of the bank increased from 0.1401 years to 0.3475 years,
thanks to its IFI funds portfolio, 36 percent of which is provided by the World Bank. In
addition, during the lifetime of the project, 745 SMEs have been financed by Halkbank
sources.

In regard to the project’s higher-level objectives, Halkbank’s total number of SME customers
increased from 332,705 to 383,190 during the implementation period. The project is estimated
to have created some 8,250 jobs, thus demonstrating its contribution to development. Even
though the project aimed to increase access to credit for SMEs in all regions of Turkey, it had
a special mandate to reduce the interregional development disparity by allocating a certain
portion of the loan facility to the priority development regions (25 percent, 20 percent, and 30
percent for the first, second, and third loan agreements, respectively). Although the targets set
were quite ambitious—taking into consideration the portion of all Turkish banking sector
loans to the target region and the other IFI funds flowing into the same region during the
implementation period—Halkbank was able to achieve the goals as planned. However, both
the greater amount of the third loan and the higher target of priority development regions
caused the project to have some undisbursed funds at the closing date. However, other
projects were retroactively financed at that time, and Halkbank was able to complete
disbursement and achieve the target percentage before the deadline for reporting (August 31,
2012).

The initial design of the project, which aimed to diversify the targeted geographical regions
between Halkbank and TSKB, was later refashioned to take into account the eligibility of the
SMEs. Results have shown that the changes in the original design were successful. Halkbank
was able to disburse the original loan in less than a year and signed the agreement for
additional financing within a year and a half. Thanks to the successful design and
implementation of the project, the additional financing has also been disbursed and has
achieved the same success, enabling a second additional financing agreement.

Implementation

Given that the project was the first after a few decades of inactivity between the World Bank
and Halkbank, there was a lack of experience at the initial stages of the project. However,
thanks to Halkbank’s restructuring and its network of branch banks, it was able to handle the
operations well, and no significant problem occurred. The PIU has started the implementation
of new monitoring mechanisms in line with the needs of the project. These mechanisms have
come to the attention of the World Bank and have been mentioned in the project assessments.
The changes in procurement and safeguard policies applied by the World Bank during the


                                               31
                                      FINAL DRAFT

implementation period, however, have raised complaints from the staff in the field. Even
Halkbank has slowed down extending investment loans because of the new safeguard
procedures. Nonetheless, the project has been successfully completed according to the set
targets.

Given the above explanations of Halkbank’s implementation and operational experiences, its
focus on assigning the right staff to the right task resulted in noteworthy success. Another
lesson learned during the project was that continuous training and capacity building are
essential for the success of IFI loan programs in Turkey, since the banking sector in the
country is still in a process of restructuring and rejuvenation. Finally, the PIU should focus
coordinating the marketing, project appraisal, and loan allocation authorities of the
implementing agency.

TSKB

1.   Assessment of the Project’s Objective, Implementation, and Operational
Experience

1.1 Project’s Objective

    The object of the project was to increase the access of small and medium Turkish
    enterprises to medium-term finance and thus contribute to their growth. By providing
    SMEs with access to credit through a credit line, the project aimed to help increase the
    sales and productivity of Turkish SMEs and decrease the credit gap between SMEs and
    large firms. The project consisted of the establishment and operation of a credit facility
    within TSKB to provide subloans and lease financing to SMEs and enable them to carry
    out subprojects.
    Evaluation of the results shows that the objectives of the operation were achieved.

1.2 Project’s Implementation

    The marketing of the facility was carried out by the Corporate Marketing Department
    from TKSB’s headquarters in Istanbul and through its offices in Ankara and Izmir. The
    financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 had a negative effect on the pace of the disbursement of
    the facility. The possibility of extending working-capital loans besides investment loans
    has mitigated to some extent the negative effect of the crisis.

1.3 Operational Experience

    The overall administration of the facility was carried out by the Project Implementation
    Unit set up within TSKB and headed by an executive vice president. The PIU worked
    closely with the Marketing Department, the World Bank’s Ankara office, and the task
    team leader in the World Bank responsible for the project.

 2. Assessment of the Outcome of the Project against the Agreed Objectives

    Under the facility, TSKB approved 56 loans totaling US$48.0 million and €60.0 million.
    The average loan size was US$2.2 million. The loans were made according to the criteria
    set up in the project document with the following details:

        •   Disbursement to SMEs amounted to US$48.0 million and €60.0 million.
        •   The number of SMEs financed by TSKB was 56.




                                             32
                                       FINAL DRAFT

        •   The maturity of investment loans was 74 months, with an average grace period of
            17 months. Of all the loans, 17 were working-capital loans with an average
            maturity of 35 months and a grace period of 10 months.
        •   No loans were made in local currency.
        •   Loans were given in 22 provinces in Turkey and in 6 provinces in the
            underserved area where more than 17 percent (US$20.7 million) of the loan was
            disbursed.
        •   There were no nonperforming loans (category III, IV, and V) under the project.
        •   The planned employment impact of the projects financed was 1,174.

The above results indicate that the overall objectives of the project were achieved.
Distribution of loans according to sector, region, and loan-size range is presented in annex 1.
The monitoring report on the project’s overall indicators is given in annex 2.

Disbursement of subloans to subborrowers was completed for the U.S. dollar tranche in
March 2011, and the euro tranche was almost fully disbursed by August 2011. With the final
disbursements from the loan to TSKB made in September 2011 for U.S. dollars and in May
2012 for euros, fully documenting the outstanding designated account balances, the loan
accounts were closed.

 3. Evaluation of the borrower’s own performance during the implementation of the
    project, with the special emphasis on the lessons learned that may be helpful in the
    future

The lessons learned suggest that the criteria for the SME balance sheet should be designed to
be as flexible as possible to speed up the disbursement of the facility. The beneficiaries to
benefit from the facility were defined as SMEs with less than US$20 million equivalent in
sales and fewer than 250 employees at the time of application to TSKB for the IBRD loan.
The cap on the net sales was a major impediment to including SMEs that otherwise met the
objectives of the project and were deemed suitable to receive financing under the facility.

 4. Evaluation of the performance of the World Bank during the implementation of
    the project, including the effectiveness of their relationship, with special emphasis
    on lessons learned

The World Bank’s performance during the implementation was very satisfactory. During the
implementation of the project, the parties (Bank staff in both Washington, D.C., and in
Ankara and TSKB PIU) had a cordial relationship, and issues relating to the implementation
of the project were swiftly resolved.




                                              33
