Documeint of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5732-PH  Type: (PM)
BREDIE, J / X81216 / E9037/ ASTPH                        RqmmtN..P 5732-PH
MEMORANDUM AND RECOQMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 26.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
MAY 11, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpienb only in the performance of
tbhr official dutis. Its contnts may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



DENLY 1QUM&LES
(as of August 31, 1991)
Currency Unit - Philippine Peso (P)
US01.00         -  P 28.00
a 1.00          -  US$0.036
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DECS  -    Department of Education, Culture and Sports
DOLE  -    Department of Labor and Employment
ICB   -    International Competitive Bidding
LCB   -    Local Competitive Bidding
NGO   -    Non-Governmental Organization
NNIS  -    National Manpower Information Syst3m
NMYC  -    National Manpower and Youth Council
OMSD  -    National Skills Training Center
OSY   -    Out-of-School Youth
PMTC  -    Provincial Manpower and Training Center
PMU   -    Project Management Unit
RMTC  -    Regional Manpower and Training Center
FISCAL )MR
January 1 to December 31
SHO L YEAR
June - March



FOX OMCAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINE
SECONQ VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Credit and Project S6mMary
Borrower:          Republic of the Philippines
Amount:            SDR 26.4 million (US$36.0 million equivalent)
TemA:              Standard, with 35 years' maturity.
Financing Plan:
Local      Forein    Total
-US$ million ------
Government                      5.8         -         5.8
IDA                           21.
TOTAL               26.815.0
Economic Rate of Return:     Not applicable
Staff An=raisal RLDort:      Report No. 10221-PH
IBRD No. 23477R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PHILIPPINE
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents
PasteN
I.   COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STATEGY
A. Recent Economic Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B. Economic Reform and Development Issues
The Medium-Term Agenda ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    3
C. Past Bank Group Assistance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
D. Bank Group Assistance Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
E. Status of Policy Dialogue, Aid Coordination
and Cofinancing  ....  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   14
F.  IFC and NIGA   ....  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   15
G. Coordination with IMF ................ .   16
R. Summary  .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   16
TTI.  ZIL1E~1I~PROJ   ..  .  ...  .  ...  .  ...  . .......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    16



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A SECO=D VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit for your approval the following memorandum and
recommendation on a proposed Development Credit to the Republic of the
Philippines for SDR 26.4 million (the equivalent of US$36.0 million) on
standard IDA terms with 35 years, maturity to help finance a Second Vocational
Training Project.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
2.        The Cogtry Brief was distributed in January 1992. A Country
Economic Report entitled: Public Sector Resource Mobilization and Expenditure
anagemepL_(Report No. 10056-PH) was distributed on February 20, 1992. The
Tranche Release Memorandum (R92-50) on the Debt Management Program (Loan 3149-
PH), which was distributed on March 26, 1992, also contains additional
information on the macroeconomy.
A. Recent Economic Develonments
3.       ftckgrgjmd.  Although progress has been mixed and growth remains
fragile, the Administration of President Corazon Aquino has managed to bring
the country back onto a path of improved stability and economic growth, since
it took power in 1986. During 1987-89, economic growth averaged 6 percent per
annum and the external sector, notably exports, gained in strength and the
fiscal position improved. However, in 1990-91 economic growth declined, due
in part to a series of economic shocks (the Gulf Crisis) and natural disasters
(July 1990 Earthquake and June 1991 Mt. Pinatubo volcanic eruption) and in
part to tight fiscal and monetary policies required to reduce the current
account deficit and inflation. These developments have been fully discussed
in the documents cited above.
4.        In September 1990, the IMF's Extended Fund facility (EFF) went off
track and was replaced in February 1991 by a new Standby Arrangement. The 18-
month Standby Arrangement embodied a new stabilization program aimed at
strengthening fiscal balances and bringing the money supply under control.
Under the Standby, the Government committed itself to: reducing the
consolidated public sector deficit and lowering public borrowing; limiting the
money supply; placing a ceiling on short-term external debt; eliminating the
deficit in the Oil Price Stabilization Fund; and increasing international
reserves.
5.        Economic performance in 1991 was generally in compliance with the
key targets established under the Standby Arrangement. The consolidated
public sector deficit decreased from 5.5 percent of GNP in 1990 to 2.7 percent
in 1991, base money growth was somewhat above the program path but neverthe-
less slowed to 14X by year-end, and foreign exchange reserves increased
substantially. However, these gains were achieved at the expense of higher
real interest rates. Exceptional revenue measures, such as the temporary 9



-2-
percent import levy, also undermined private investment which fell sharply.
Coupled with cuts in fiscal spending, these developments resulted in negative
GDP growth during 1991. In order to sustain fiscal improvement into 1992, the
Government adopted new tax measures (para. 6), which enabled removal of the
temporary import levy. In January-February 1992, it raised electricity rates
of the National Power Corporation (NPC) in a two-step increase of 23 centavos
per kwh. or equivalent to about a 20 percent increase (see also para. 7).
6.        In February 1992 Congress approved several tax measures, including:
(i) Simplified Net Income Tax for businesses and professionals; (ii) creation
of a large taxpayers unit to improve tax compliance; (iii) establishment of
final withholding on purely compensatory income; (iv) creation of special tax
courts; and (v) increased penalties for tax evasion. As a result of the tax
measures and assuming that actual outlays remain in accord with the agreed
expenditure ceilings, the 1992 consolidated public sector deficit is expected
to be in line with the 2.7 percent/GNP fiscal target set for 1992. The IMF
Board reviewed performance under the Standby Arrangement on March 4, and
authorized the Philippines to withdraw $80 million under the Arrangement. The
Board also extended the Standby until the end of the year.
7.        In May 1992, after the surplus in the Oil Price Stabilization Fund
(OPSF) had been built up to more comfortable margins as a result of lower than
anticipated world oil prices, the Government lowered diesel and bunker fuel
prices and reduced electricity tariffs (by 5 centavos/kwh. or about 4
percent). Although the Bank's preliminary assessment is that the combination
of these price changes will result in some net improvement to NPC's financial
position, the opportunity to place NPC's finances on a solid medium-term
footing, afforded by the decline in international oil prices, has been lost
for the time being. The Bank continues to review the energy pricing and
supply situation, as part of its supervision of the Energy Sector Loan (FY90'
Also, the Bank's continuing involvement in the energy sector overall will
provide a basis for dialogue and agree&tents with the new Govexment on future
policy and program priorities. These would then be incorporated into the
Bank's future lending (section D).
Adjustment Effort in PersRective
8.       Although the economy grew strongly in the 1970's (around 6.5X per
year) the need for structural adjustment was evident by the end of the decade.
By 1980, external debt had accumulated rapidly and the large in'estment
requirements to generate growth had produced unsustainable current account
deficits of over 8X of GNP. The public corporate sector was expanding rapidly
into high risk, capital intensive projects. Foreign capital was being
intermediated into private investments through public financial intermediaries
without adequate supervision or assessment of project risk. And industrial
sector growt:h was increasingly riding on construction in the non-traded goods
sector, rather than on further manufacturing growth. These defects in the
growth process were apparent in the failure to achieve a substantial
transformarion in the structure of employment towards the formal wage earning
sector, and in the absence of significant progress in reducing poverty. The
identified problem, then, was to raise the efficiency of investment through
tight demand management and through a medium-term adjustment program targeted



- 3 -
at restructuring of the industrial sector, financial intermediation and energy
pricing.
9.        The Philippines has progressed significantly in implementing this
adjustment program. Since 1983, and particularly since the change in
Government in 1986, the authorities have made concerted efforts to correct a
wide array of structural problems. Reforms in agricultural pricing and
marketing, the financial sector, privatization, trade and tariff
liberalization, direct and indirect taxes and investment incentives have since
been undertaken, along with procedures to set priorities for public
investments. Sugar and coconut monopolies have been disbanded, interest rates
are now determined by market forces, the bias towards capital-intensity in
investment incentives has been effectively removed, the Board of Investments
has streamlined procedures and taken on a more promotional role, a VAT and
improved income tax measures have been implemented reducing tax distortions,
and trade reform pursued. Taken together, these measures have substantially
opened the economy to competition and corrected major policy-induced internal
distortions.
The New Administration
10.       National elections were held on May 11, 1992 and the President-
elect and Cabinet will be sworn in on June 30. In addition to the
Presidential election, elections were held for seats in the Senate, the House
of Representatives and thousands of positions in provincial and local
government. To aid the transition process, the National Economic Development
Authority (NEDA) is preparing sectoral papers based on consultations with
business groups, other government agencies, and academics as a means of aiding
the transition process. These papers will be passed on to the new Government
at the end of June to assist the incoming officials. Meanwhile, the Bank is
rreparing a Basic Economic Report scheduled for early FY93, which would
include pertinent suggestions for consideration by the new Government
regarding the scope of economic policy in the medium term. An updated country
assistance strategy, to be prepared in FY93, will reflect the outcome of
discussions on the Basic Economic Reporc and understandings with the
Government arising from the various transition briefs now under preparation in
Manila, as well as in the Bank. The main economic and social develeg3ment
issues underlying the likely policy agenda are summarized below.
B. Economic Reform and Development Issues: The Medium-Term Agenda
11.       The Government has spelled out its reform agenda in a medium-term
program, The Phillppine Agenda for Sustained Growth and Develc,ment, which was
presented to and endorsed by the Consultative Group at its mecting in July
1989. Progress reports on this agenda were presented to and endorsed by CG
meetings in February 1991 and March 1992. Other pertinent documents include:
The Philipnines Develooment Plan. 1989-93 and the Medium-Term Public
Investment Program (4TPIP). 1990-94. These documents summarize the
Government's development strategy and priority investments for each sector and
the new Government is expected to broadly adopt a similar agenda. The current
agenda encompasses the following four central themes:



-4-
* maintaining the stabilizatior program on track, focussing upon improved
revenue mobilization and continued reduction of inflation;
* deepening the structural adjustment program in the areas of investment
policy, trade policy, exchange rate management, and pursuit of external
debt workout arrangements;
* deepening the sectoral reform programs. especially in the areas of
private sector development, continued reform of government corporations,
and expansion of the Infrastructure base; and
* alleviating poverty through human resource development, family planning,
envir^nmental management and agrarian reform.
12.       The first theme is aimed at basic macroeconomic equilibrium issues
that will determine the ability of the Philippines economy to stabilize after
many years of uneven progress. The Philippines prospects for growth depend
upon the ability to foster a competitive economic structure that can weather
external shocks and natural disasters and keep economic downturns short-lived.
This involves formulating macroeconomic reforms that revolve around improved
resource mobilization measures, increaaed competitiveness, reforming the
financial sector, correcting price signals, removing trade distortions, and
rationalizing the investment regime. The Government has made substantial
progress in these areas, and consolidation and expansion of the reforms will
be needed in the future.
13.       The second and third themes (structural and sectoral) deal with
economic issues over the longer term that will largely determine the ability
of the Philippines to compete effectively with neighboring economies.
Investor surveys have confirmed the urgent need for the Philippines to build
up its infrastructure base, especially in electricity generation, transport,
and water supply in order to facilitate the much-needed supply response. The
Government needs to give more attention to the user side, i.e. seeing whether
users of public infrastructure, be they firms, households, users of transport
(buses, trucks and cars), consumers of electricity ((manufacturing firms and
households) are receiving a service level that is appropriately priced and
meets international standards.
14.       The fourth theme will determine the Philippines ability to overcome
basic sustainability questions, and nowhere is this more important than in the
area of poverty alleviation. Poverty is found mainly in the rural areas,
although it is growing in congested and deteriorating urban conditions. A
recent update of poverty incidence showed that the proportion of households
living below the national poverty line remained high (it dropped by only four
percentage points, from 59 percent in 1985 to 55 percent in 1988, despite the
economic recovery). Since then some reversion may even have occurred with
lower mean per capita incomes and higher unemployment and underemployment.
While these figures on poverty incidence are hih relative to other countries,
this is largely the result of measurement issues, namely the high national
poverty line used in the Philippines. Allowances for non-food expenditures
and for non-cereals food consumption in the Philippines are far more generous
than for other countries.



-5-
15.       In the absence of sustained growth, effective poverty alleviation
has proven to be quite intractable. Government strategy has focussed on rural
projects complemented by initiatives in environment management, which have a
significant poverty impact. These initiatives have included: rural
infrastructure development; irrigation investment; agricultural research and
revitalization of the national extension service; infrastructure and extension
services for poor upland communities; rehabilitation o0 the rural credit
system; and development of the small coconut farm subsector. One major
initiative, the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program has not had the impact
on poverty reduction that was envisaged by the Aquino Administration in part
because of poor implementation.
16.      Those wl.o h^ve escaped poverty have done so through higher levels
of education and vocational training, obtaining formal sector wage jobs,
diversifying into higher value added crops, and reducing dependency ratios in
the household. Private and social rates of return to education remain
satisfactory, at around 10, but concern is growing over the quality of
education, as evidenced by inc-eased drop-out ratios. Numerous non-govern-
mental organizations (NGOs) have emerged to tackle poverty, and, consequently,
there has been relative success in improving non-income aspects of poverty.
Infant mortality has been reduced to 50 per thousand and is below that of
other countries with comparable income levels. Incidence of disease, such as
malaria, has also declined.  Overall, the new government will need to improve
its capacity to deliver effective programs in education, health, family
planning, and agrarian reform. This, together with a pro-growth policy
stance, would provide a central attack on poverty.
17.       Economic Indicators. If the new Government adopts a medium-term
program that encompasses the main elements of the agenda suggested above, and
if the economy is not buffeted by extreme shocks, the basic economic
indicators shown in Attachment 1 are expected to exhibit steady improvement
over the medium term, as economic growth is gradually restored. In order for
this to occur, the Goverrment will need to deepen the sectoral reform program
and it will need to be consistent and firm in policy formulation and
implementation.
C. Past afink Grou Assistance
18.       Past Bank lending, especially in the last five years, has been
aimed at assisting the Government to deal with the issues outlined above. As
of March 31, 1992 the Philippines had received 133 Bank loans (of which two
were on Third Window terms) amounting to $7,400 million and six IDA credits
amounting to $171 million. After an interlude of nearly 12 years, the
Philippines became eligible for IDA again in April 1991. An IDA credit of SDR
50 million ($66 million) was approved in June 1991 for the Environment and
Natural Resources Sector Adjustment Program. IFC's total gross investments as
of Decemiber 31, 1991 amounted to $769 million and investments hold by IFC
(outstanding) totalled $296 million. The share of the Bank Group in public
MLT debt disbursed and outstanding is currently about 15X, its share in public
ILT debt service is about 26X, and the share of IBRD debt service to export is
about 4.7X. These ratios are expected to decline to about 141, 251 and 4.41,
respectively, by end-1992.



-6-
19.       A retrospective of the last nine years shows that the Bank has
financed projects in nearly all sectors of the economy, with particular
emphasis on agriculture, infrastructure, energy, and industry (Table 1).
Lending for SECALs, transportation, water supply and sewerage, and social
sectors have grown in importance. Bank lending has experienced two cycles
since the 1970s. It grew from an average of lesa than $100 million a year in
the early seventies to about $420 million per annum in FYSO-84. It then
decreased sharply in FY85 and FY86 because of the limited scope for policy-
based or project lending amidst the political and. economic turmoil that
accompanied the last few years of the Marcos Administration. Econonic
recovery and reorientation of Government policies after March 1986 facilitated
a return to a higher level of lending around $700 million per annum during the
last three fiscal years. This has included lending for special
initiatives/needs, such as the Earthquake Rehabilitation Loan ($125 Million,
FY91) and the Environment and Natural Resources Sector Adjustment Loan ($158
Million IBRD/SDR 50 million IDA, FY91) and the Debt Management Loan ($200
Million, FY90).
abte 1: DISTRtSUTION OF wac LWING BY SECTOR, FY84-92
(USS mitlios and percetae)
PY84-86        FY87-89         FP90-92
Lector               A!lwnt    X    Amt        _X    A=mout     X
Agriculture          250.0   43.3     45.0    3.4    168.0    7.4
(2)             (1)             (2)
Industry/JFt           4.0    0.7     60.0    4.5    405.0   17.8
(1)             (1)             (4)
Power/Energy           -      -       165.5   12.3    481.3   21.2
(2)             (2)
Transport            184.0   31.9     32.0    2.4    150.0    6.6
(2)             (1)             (1)
Urban/vater Supply   139.7   24.2    160.0   11.9    233.0   10.3
(5)             (2)             (4)
Education/Health       -              70.1    5.2    285.0   12.5
*          ~~~(1)          (2)
Environnent            -      -        -       -      224.0    9.9
(2)
SALs/SECALs/Debt Reduction  -         810.0   60.3    200.0    8.8
(3)             (1)
Etergency/Rehabilitation  -            -       -       125.0    S.S
(1)
Total Anount       577.7  100.0   1342.6  100.0   2271.3 I 100.0
No. Projects        10               11              19
LA  lot including proposed Second Vocational Training Project.
20.       The balance between policy-based loans (Table 2) and investment
loans has been appropriate, reflecting the state of economic reforms and the
investment needs by sector. The specific objectives of these loans are
summarized in Table 2. As shown in the Table, there has also been a planned
sequencing of the policy loans, starting in 1980 with structural adjustment
lending, and then moving on to the key sectors considered most conducive to
the benefits of such reform, namely agriculture, energy, financial sector, and
state economic enterprises. Debt management also became a central focus and
remains so (see the Briefing Note on the planned Commercial Bank Debt



Restructuring Agreement, which 4as Uistributed to the Board on March 5, 1992
(SecM92-289)).
Tablg 2:  OANK GRWP ADJUSTNENT LENDING SINCE 1980
Loan                  Date          Amount         Policy Focus
(S N
SAL-I                 1980          200            Tariff reform, begin removal of quantitative
restrictions on Imports Improve export
promotion.
SAL-II                1983          302            Restructured  iymestment Incentives, reduced
sates and excise taxes on ipports.
Agricultural          1984          150            Removal of price and other controls on
Inputs                                             agricultural  outputs and inputs and break up
of the Sugar and Cocenut mnotpolies.
Ecanmic Recovery      1986          300            Reforms of public financial institutions,
Loan                                               trade restrictins,  public invmestment, and
tax system.
Reforr Proqram        t967          200            Restructured  controls on public corporations,
dovernnnt                                          iuplemented progra  of privatization  and
Corporations                                       closure for over 200 corporations.
Financial Sector      1989  '       300            Reformed Centrat Bank regulation and control
of private banks, improved legal system,
ffipetition amo, banks, dpositor
protection, interest rates.
Debt  anagement       1989          200            Supported buy back of US$1.33 billion of
Program                                            external debt at a cost of S66W  million;
improvement In debt management system.
Environment and       1991 atW      IS  135        Supported the management of natural resources
Natural Resources                     6 IDA        and strengthening  of protection of biological
diversity.
I/ Hybrid.
1 Second Trancb Release not wt approved.
Portfolo Statu
21.         The Bank has 37 projects under implementation with an undisbursed
amount of around $2.2 billion (35 percent of the total amount of loans
outstanding). Of the 37 projects only one was rated as having major problems,
while the others were experiencing varying degrees of success in their
implementation. Bank disbursements in FY91 were $359 million and the
disbursement ratio was around 22 percent. In FY90, Btak disbursements to the
Philippines amounted to $574 million and the disbursement ratio was a high 49
percent, partly  on account of the Debt Management Loan.  Considering only
inmestment projects in FY91, the disbursement ratio remained satisfactory at
22 percent. This is in line with the Bank-wide average for such loans,
despite the temporay difficulties experienced in the Philippines due to the
lack of sufficient counterpart funds and the disruptions caused by natural



disasters. These issues have been addressed in the Bank's annual Country
Implementation Reviews (CIRs) with the Philippine authorities.
22.       In the Bank's portfolio work, it has become evident that there are
a number of systemic issues of implementation affecting project success.
These are poor institutional capacity, delays in obtaining agreement among and
between various arms of the government, and lack of adequate counterpart
funds. Institutional constraints stem from an under-paid and over-stretched
civil service. The necessary fiscal restraints on expenditures during fiscal
austerity, and the protracted process in getting Congressional approval on
related bills has also added to delays. The combination of these issues has
reduced the effectivness of certain programs, e.g. the Agrarian Reform
Program, where weak institutional capacity at the local level and limitations
in the Agrarian Reform Law have reduced the impact of the program. There is a
need to strengthen the capacity of institutions across a broad range of
government services in order to facilitate the design and implementation of
cost-effective programs that do indeed reach the intended beneficiaries.
D.  Bank Gro   Assitance-Straeg
23.       Looking to the future, and depending upon the set of policies that
emerges from the new Government, the B&ak Group's assistance strategy in the
Philippines will continue to focus on key components within each of the four
themes discussed in Section B, namely: (a) macroeconomic analysis and support
for the economic reform program; (b) structural adjustment; (c) sectoral
reforms; and (d) support for addressing issues of sustainability.
(a) Macroocomic Analy&U
24.       The close policy dialogue and the Bank's economic reports and
adjustment loans have nlayed central roles in supporting the reform process.
There are several areas in which the Bank plans to deepen its macroeconomic
work, in conjunction with the IMF:
(i) Tax Syjteg. The structure of taxes has undergone significant
changes. Since 1986, elasticity and buoyancy measures of all
major tax groups have been raised above unity, with more
reliance on elastic categories such as income taxes and less
reliance on fees and stamp taxes. The tax effort in the
Philippines has risen from about 11 of GNP in 1986 and
preceding years to about 14.5X in 1991. Although this level
remains low in comparison to neighboring countries, it still
represents a considerable advance. And when growth recovers
and the recent measures to improve collection efficiency bear
fruit, further gains will undoubtedly be recorded. A Tax
Computerization project is planned for FY93.
(ii) ftchange Rate Policy and SyItem. Until domestic savers obtain
secure positive real interest rates and until realistic
exchange rates become the norm, segments of the public will
continue to save in foreign currencies rather than pesos. The
Government's program for foreign exchange liberalization should



-9-
encourage a return of savings from abroad and allow the
Government to tap into a reservoir of national funds. Improved
schemes for retention of foreign exchange have been recently
implemented and further consolidation of these reforms is
planned under the Economic Integration Loan, planned for FY93.
(iii)  Financial Condition of the Central Bank.  The CBP has
substantial foreign exchange liabilities and has more recently
accumulated domestic liabilities to sterilize its financial
losses. In additLon, in order to improve efficiency, a
reduction in taxation on financial intermediation is needed.
However, until the Central Bank is able to improve its balance
sheet and income position, it will not be able to reduce
reserve requirements. These issues are analyzed in the Bank's
recent Capital Market Study (Report 10053-PH,
February 24, 1992). Restructuring of the Central Bank's net
assets and liability position would be a fundamental step
towards more effective monetary policy implementation.
(iv) kxznditure Manag2mwnt.  Other sources of public deficits also
need to be tackled. The Government Corporations, which had
been such a drain on public finances in the past, have
registered much improved financial balances. The Oil Price
Stabilization Fund has reverted into surplus, and the Bank has
had a close dialogue in design of a system of domestic oil
prices that will better reflect the structure of international
oil prices and domestic input and output prices, removing a
major source of unpredictability from the consolidated public
sector finances. The recent Economic Report served an
important role in keeping the focus on prudent expenditure
management and the need to achieve greater efficiencies in the
state enterprise sector.
(v)  External Debt.  The Bank Group's role has been particularly
useful with respect to debt management and support on debt
operations is likely to be critical to the task of re-
establishing commercial creditworthiness. The recent agreement
to restructure commercial bank medium and long-term external
debt in a comprehensive manner represents a major step in the
ongoing process to solve the Philippine debt problem. The
first step in Bank assistance was taken in December 1989 with
the approval of the Debt Management Loan, whose second tranche
was recently released (Memorandum R92-50 of March 26, 1992). A
new debt restructuring agreement (involving around $5 billion
of commercial debt) has been reached between the Government and
its creditor banks and, if completed successfully, would yield
significant savings for the budget and balance of payments. It
will also allow the Philippines to put behind it the debt issue
and concentrate on strengthening economic performance with a
degree of certainty over debt-related payments that has
hitherto been missing. Furthermore, by easing the balance of
payments constraint, the debt restructuring will allow the
Government to proceed with programs to broaden and deepen the



- 10 -
reform program. The Bank is planning to support the debt
restructuring agreement with a new debt service reduction
operation in FY93, in conjunction with an Economic Integration
Loan (see below).
(b) Structural Adiustment
25.       The Bank is working on a possibi.e adjustment operation (Economic
Integration Loan), which is designed to link more closely the domestic economy
with the global economy through policy changes in investment, trade, foreign
exchange management, transport deregulation, and energy pricing. With these
reforms, the structural adjustment agenda aimed at reducing policy-induced
distortions would be largely completed.
(c) Sectoral Reforms
26.       The Government has always attached high importance to  grivate
sector development (PSD), both philosophically and as a matter of stated
policy. As a result, the presence of the private sector in various sectors of
the economy is substantial, even dominant in many sectors. No formal and
systematic stock-taking has been undertaken so far. The Bank together with
IFC is undertaking a Private Sector Development study, which will assess
private sector activities in the overall economy, identify and analyze
constraints to private sector development, and make recommendations for their
removal. Emphasis will be on selected manufacturing subsectors, and on the
power and telecommunications sectors.
27.       The Bank will continue to follow a multi-faceted approach designed
to improve the regulatory and operating environment for the private sector.
Critical to private sector performance will be continued movement by the new
Government toward further economic deregulation. There has been major
progress toward deregulation and simplification of procedures in many sectors,
including agriculture, finance, trade, power generation and telecommunications
within the frameworks established under a series of Bank-supported programs.
However, there remains considerable scope for further action in the critical
areas of transport (both road and maritime) and industry.
28.       Good progress has been made in the area of privatization where the
Government exceeded the targets set under the Reform of Government
Corporations (GCs) Loan (SecK92-99 of January 23, 1992 regarding Release of
the Third Tranche). The Government offered for sale 84 companies (target
number 60) whose asset value represented 62 percent of total GC assets
(compared to a target of 50 percent). Recently, the Government sold its
majority stake in Philippine Airlines (PAL) and is in the final stages of
putting up for sale the National Steel Corporation. With regard to public
sector efficiency, systematic monitoring is being done in the case of some 30
public enterprises through use of a Performance Evaluation and Incentive
System and the Bank intends to continue assisting in the review of these
findings, as documented in the February 1992 Country Economic Report.
29.       In order to provide the private sector with an environment
conducive to investing in new plant and equipment and expanding or
rehabilitating existing plants, the infrastructure bass (electricity, water



v 11 -
supply, roads and telecommunications facilities) needs to be brought up to
standard. Projects in geothermal energy development, expansion of water
supply and improved systems for disposal of solid waste are planned. Again,
the need to obtain efficiency improvements in the public sector will continue
to guide the assistance strategy. Attention will be given to improving the
level, content, and process for allocating public investment and expenditures.
Studies undertaken under the Debt Management Loan will help to provide the
analytical basis for future action on operations and maintenance expenditures.
Regarding the financing of energy and infrastructure projects, the Bank will
seek to support appropriate Build-Operate-and-Transfer (BOT) schemes for
construction and operation by the private sector. The Philippines already has
had successful experience with gas turbine power generation projects that were
designed on a BOT basis. Congress passed the BOT legislation in July 1990,
and the Government set up an Infrastructure Fund to allow the private sector
access to ODA funds for BOT-type projects. In cases where BOT proposals are
found to be viable, the Bank will seek to complement the financing through use
of the Bank's Export Credit Enhanced Leverage (EXCEL) Program.
(d) Sustainability Issues
30.       The sustainability of economic growth and the improvement in social
welfare in turn hinge upon progress in tackling key issues affecting the
environment, human resource development, population, and poverty reduction.
As the new Government attempts to put economic growth back on a sustainable
basis, environmental issues will loom large, as they have done to date. As a
follow-up to the 8nvironment and Natural Resources Sector Adjustment Program,
other initiatives are planned to be undertaken, such as improvement of bio-
diversity management and assistance to the national agencies in conducting
environmental impact assessments. Support for the country's efforts to
improve the management of national parks and protected areas will continue to
be an area of collaboration, in conjunction with the GEF, and a second project
in natural resource management is planned. The Bank plans to develop programs
in conjunction with the Global Environment Facility (GEF), especially in the
natural resource management area. Projects to reduce industrial pollution and
improve solid waste management are also under consideration.
31.       In the area of human resource- develogment, per capita expenditures
on social services increased in the second half of the 1980s, as the
Government moved to address the deteriorating social conditions that had been
made worse by several years of turmoil. However, despite expanded access to
education, the quality has fallen and the Bank has supported a re-orientation
of elementary education and upgrading of science and engineering education in
particular. There are also substantial unmet needs in vocational and
technical training, as well as in informal training; improved skills are
needed to support industrialization and technology transfer, and to strengthen
the national technical capacity for environmental management. In health and
nutrition, standards of service delivery have similarly declined, with a
consequent rise in disease. The absolute numbers of persons lacking access to
clean water and sanitation facilities have increased substantially over the
last decade. In all these areas the absolute poor suffer a disproportionate
share of the decline. The Bank strategy is to address the problems at two
levels: by targeting Increased expenditures to critical areas (primary
education, vocational training, urban health, nutrition, basic urban



- 12 -
infrastructure), and by encouraging efficient use of the resources now
allucated through rationalization and reorientation of policies. The Bank's
human resource strategy will continue to involve major changes in the areas of
health and education, and structured support of the large but inefficient,
private sector role in service provision. A project in teacher training
development is planned.
32.       The current rate of gonulation growth (2.3 percent per annum) is
straining the country's already over-burdened natural resource base and the
Government's ability to mobilize adequate resources for the provision of
social services. Vigorous implementation of a broad-ranging strategy is
needed to provide family planning education and services, as well as improved
maternal and child care across the country. The Government has taken initial
steps in this direction and it needs to build more broad-based support among
the key interest groups. Improving access of the poor to adequate curative
care is also a key element in the poverty alleviation strategy. The Bank is
preparing a Womens Health and Safe Motherhood project, together with bilateral
donors.
33.       Regarding the access of women to other services and economic
opportunities, a Bank assessment on Women in Development (VID) in the
Philippines was completed in 1989. While the indicators showed that women
have reasonably good access to education, employment opportunities and
services, the main areas identified for improving their condition involve
maternal health and family planning services. In addition to the women health
and family planning initiatives, the Bank Group will continue to include WID
components in suitable projects aimed at improving the economic conditions of
the urban and rural poor.
34.       The Bank Group's strategy for 2overty alleviation in the
Philippines is based on a Bank study of the poverty issue, which was
distributed in October 1988 (Report No. 7144-PH). The proposed agenda has
three main elements: sustainable rural development (incorporating both land
reform and addressing the linkages between population, poverty and
environmental degradation); family planning; and expanded, rationalized,
social sector support. In all three areas there will be a need to involve and
support private voluntary and non-governmental organizations: the Philippines
is relatively well-endowed with such institutions, and government policy is
conducive to their integration in service delivery. Implementation of a broad
health strategy, recognizing benefits from family planning and a cleaner
environment, should also provide further means of reducing poverty.
35.       The Bank's efforts to support poverty alleviation will therefore
need to be broad-based through self-standing projects, as well as through
adopting specific targeting in appropriate projects. Special emphasis will be
given to developing targeted safety nets, as experience to date in the
Philippines has not been successful in devising concrete programs that embody
clear and eas'ly managed safety net schemes. Projects in water supply and
sewerage, especially in the smaller towns and covmunities, should have a
significant impact on improving living conditions for the poor. The
Government's PRO-POOR program comprising special line agency programs
(infrastructure provision and social programs) targeted to the municipalities
with the least resour¢es is likely to be preserved in some form, although



- 13 -
there could be modifications made by the new government. The Bank will devote
special emphasis to working with the government in removing social
inequalities through provision of cost-effective programs that reach the
intended beneficiaries country-wide.
Scale and Composition of Lending
36.       The overall level and pace of Bank Group assistance to the
Philippines will depend upon performance; namely, the willingness/ability of
the new Government to build on the policy gains of the outgoing
Administration, by continuing to strengthen the macroeconomic framework and to
deepen the structural adjustment program, especially at the sectoral level.
In order to support economic growth and achievement of social progress, the
Bank plans to concentrate on investment lending in infrastructure (power,
water supply, and transport), private sector development (in conjunction with
IFC), and human resource development. A lending level of $500 - $600 million
per year is planned for the above areas. Additional lending in the area of
sustainability (e.g. population and environmental management) and continued
support for debt service reduction (out of the Bank's augmented resources)
would be considered, if appropriate initiatives are taken by the new
Government.
Use of IDA Resources
37.       The Philippines is not expected to receive a great groportion of
IDA resources in its blend of Bank Group funds. The use of IDA resources
would be geared towards encouraging the Government to take difficult economic
and policy reform decisions and to supporting development in the social areas,
especially in human resource development and poverty alleviation. An
illustration of the type of difficult socio-economic decisions envisaged,
would be if the new Government were to embark upon an expanded family planning
program that encompasses most of the recommendations of the Bank's report
entitled: New Directions in the Philippines Family Planning Program (Report
No. 9579-PH, dated October 1, 1991).
Criteria for Judging Success
38.       In carrying out the assistance strategy, several criteria will be
used for Judging success:
* Vacro: The extent of efforts to increase domestic resource mobilization
to finance increased investment needs; maintenance of a stable
macroeconomic framework overall; on structural adjustment aspects,
maintenance of a flexible exchange rate and minimal distortions in trade
patterns;
* Sectoral: In the private sector support area, improvements in the
firms' perceptions of the reliability of freight, telecommunications,
and power services; in the social areas, benchmarks would be a lowering
of poverty incidence and an improvement in social indicators of health
and literacy; on environment, the Bank would look towards successful
implementation of the management of natural resources program and a



- 14 -
strengthening of the general capacity to undertake environmental
assessments.
* Aid AbsorDtion: Increased aid utilization rates will be a key to
effective implementation of the country assistance strategy.
39.      With aid utilization in mind, project implementation aspects are
being highlighted.   The Bank has also been striving to accelerate
disbursements through simplifying withdrawal procedures and other measures.
In addition, as a temporary measure in response to the Gulf crisis, the Bank
increased the proportion of project costs financed, from 60-70 percent to 90
percent in the case of projects in the social sectors, agriculture and
infrastructure. Also, NEDA and the Department of Finance have together
adopted a formal ranking of projects that determines the access of all
foreign-assisted projects to scarce counterpart funds and the Bank consults
with these agencies regularly.
40.       Economic and Sector Work.  The Bank is engaged in a number of
economic and sector studies which will help to underpin our macroeconomic
dialogue and to define development issues and future lending strategies in key
sectors. The last country economic report focussed upon issues of resource
mobilization and allocation. A Basic Economic Report is under preparation
that is examining key issues in the government, corporate, and household
sectors. The report will look at macroeconomic imbalances and relate these to
the lack of competitiveness in industry and to trends in poverty and
unemployment. Reports on natural resource management and the environment,
energy, financial and education sectors have also been completed over the past
two years. Their findings formed the basis for current lending operations in
those areas. Other economic and sector work completed recently include the
Capital Market Study and the Family Planning Study, as well as a study on the
Irrigated Agriculture Program. Other studies in progress or planned include
Regionalization and Decentralization, an Infrastructure Assessment Study, a
Study on Financing of Education, the PSD Study, and a Social Sector Assessment
Study.
E. Status of Policy Dialogue. Aid Coordination and Cofinancing
41.       External Aid. There is a well-functioning Consultative Group (CG)
on the Philippines. The active policy dialogue between the donors and the
Government is critical to the ability to maintain a vigorous development
program. Special initiatives have been launched under the CG auspices and
operate within its framework; for instance, at the July 1989 CG meeting held
in Tokyo, the U.S. and Japan initiated the Multilateral Assistance Initiative
(MAI), whose purposes were to support the reform program, foster private
sector development and promote economic efficiency. The Tokyo CG meeting
generated pledges of $3.5 billion for the Philippines development program. At
the next CG meeting held in Hong Kong in February 1991, pledges of $3.3
billion were generated for the Philippines aid program. At the meeting held
in Hong Kong in March 1992, emphasis was on taking stock of economic
performance and on discussion of future policy directions, and not on
pledging. At the meeting, the Bank indicated its willingness to convene



- 15 -
another CG meeting once the new Government has articulated its economic
program and is ready to discuss it with the donor community.
42.       In recent years the Bank has expanded its cofinancing initiatives,
both through the CG mechanism and through direct contacts to bilateral aid
organizations and export credit agencies. This has helped the Government in
its task of obtaining funds to overcome financing gaps on projects and
programs, and it has helped to bring order into a process where there is a
tlght rationing of scarce counterpart funds. The Bank's strategy is to rely
on cofinancing mechanisms wherever possible and to share views with other
agencies working on similar sectors, even where there is no formal cofinancing
required for a given operation. Regular meetings are held with the Asian
Development Bank and the other U.N. agencies that are active in the
Philippines.
r1. IFC and MIG
43.       The current structural and financial adjustment process in the
Philippine economy has led to new policy initiatives that are improving the
climate for private business. The Government has introduced new legislation,
including liberalized foreign exchange regulation. favoring foreign investment
and decreased import protection by implementing a medium term tariff reform.
At the same time, the country's infrastructure capacity has become a serious
constraint to directly productive activities of domestic and foreign private
investors. This is particularly true in the power sector, but is also visible
in transport and communication. Given the strong fluctuations in growth and
the balance-of-payments problems during the 1980s, foreign bank lending for
project finance has been lagging. As a consequence, IFC is concentrating its
strategy on two interrelated activities:
*   first, an increasing focus is being placed on large infrastructure
projects and export-oriented industrial and natural resource based
projects that can bear foreign exchange risk. In such projects,
IFC's involvement is especially important in mobilizing relatively
large additional foreign finance; and
*    second, emphasis is being put on fee-based advisory services, which
concentrate on privatization, re-structuring, and build-operate-
transfer (BOT) projects.
44.       Projects under preparation, as well as future prospects, include
major involvement in a private power BOT scheme, undertakings in the mining,
petroleum refining and textile sectors, as well as in basic construction
materials, such as cement. In addition, IFC is continuing its local currency
loan guarantee scheme in order to promote long-term financing by local
commercial banks and insurance companies. IFC will also remain active in
supporting activities which contribute to increased compqtitiveness of the
industrial sector and create new employment opportunities.
45.       Regarding 1, the Philippine Congress has yet to ratify the
Convention and the new legislature is expected to take up this matter in the
coming year. Participation in IMIGA could offer substantial benefit to private



- 16 -
investors who often cite the lack of effective Insurance as a significant
constraint.
6. Coordination with the IM?
46.       There is extensive cooperation between the Bank and the IMF, both
in developing and in monitoring progress under the economic reform program.
Staff frequently participate in each other's missions. Various Fund
agreements have supported programs initiated by the Bank, including reforms in
the public corporate and financial sectors, and improvements in public
investment and expenditure allocations. Likewise, Bank operations have
supported reforms which have been primarily under the guidance of the Fund,
including tax policy and exchange rate reform. Some issues, such as trade
liberalization and improvements in tax administration have been jointly
developed and supported. The work on capital markets is being closely
coordinated, so as to mesh with the objectives of the stabilization program.
The work on external debt restructuring is also being closely coordinated.
H.  SWugy
47.       The Bank's country assistance strategy will evolve as the policies
of the new Government emerge. It is not expected that there will be a radical
departure from the reform process, which has put the Philippines baclc on a
path of economic growth, albeit a fragile one. In order to achieve
sustainable growth, there will need to be a continuation of sound
macroeconomic management and a deepening of the sectoral adjustment process.
The economic reform process will need to be accompained by a broad-based
program aimed at attacking social inequalities and reducing income
disparities. Efficient job creation and a substantial upgrading of the
infrastructure base is needed, if the Philippines is to be able to attract its
share of private investment in the ASEAN region. To attract such Investment,
the Philippines needs in addition to offer a well-trained and skilled labor
force, for which up-to-date vocational training policies and programs are
critical. Through analytical work, dialogue and advice, and lending as
outlined above, we believe the Bank Group can play a major role in assisting
the Philippines' development efforts in the medium term.
II. Thie Project
4U.                        .  Faced with persistent unemployment, the
Government of the Philippines is creating an onvironment conducive to
investment and, thereby, employment generation. Increased investments would
be the basic requirement for improving employment, but the Government intends
to support these with: (a) active employment policies and services to provide
incentives for employment creation and labor market information for job
seekers; and (b) effective training policies and services to meet the changing
skill needs of the economy, and improve productlvity and economic
competitiveness.



- 17 -
49.       Employment policies and labor market services are the responsibil-
ity of the National Manpower and Youth Council (NMYC), a public authority
responsible to the Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE). NMYC is, in
addition, responsible for policy coordination and nonformal training. Recent
changes in the structure of employment require new and responsive employment
policies, but NMYC lacks the professional eccnomists and analysts, the labor
market data and the analytical tools and methodologies necessary to improve
policy analysis. The present high levels of unemployment and underemployment
require better employment information for job seekers, but NMYC's labor market
services are under-budgeted, insufficient in number and coverage, and not
adequately supported by labor market data and data processing capability.
50.       Nonformal training policies and delivery of training is the
responsibility of NMYC while the Department of Education, Culture and Sports
(DECS) has similar responsibilities for formal technical education and
training. The recent changes in employment and skill needs require that
policies be updated and address such issues as the role of employers in
training, regulation of apprenticeship training, and promotion of private
training centers. NMYC prepared a basic training policy reform in 1991 to
address these issues. To implement the reform requires strengthening of
UMYC's capacity for policy development and analysis and implementation.
Technical and vocational education and training is provided and financed
primarily by two public sector agencies: NMYC and DECS. The participation of
private sector firms is relatively small. NNYC trains annually some 115,000
mostly out-of-school youth, women and unemployed adults in pre-employment
basic and livelihood skills, and about 20,000 workers in in-service and
apprenticeship programs. The training is short, hands-on, and based on
employment surveys. The quality is good. DECS and proprietary schools train
annually about 230,000 mostly post-secondary students in basic and
intermediate skills in formal one and two year programs, which are of uneven
quality and relevance.
51.       According to a 1990 subsector review by the Government and the
Bank, the major issues facing this subsector are: (a) the lack of analytical
policy and management capacity in DOLE, MYXC and DECS to link training with
employment and provide employment services; (b) the need to decentralize the
management of MXC' s training programs and make training more relevant to
local needs; (c) the limited participation of firms in training and the
limited cost sharing which results in public provision and financing; (d) the
poor coordination between DECS and MNNC and the inefficient use of training
resources; and (e) the low relevance and efficiency of formal training
programs. The changes in the employment profile from agriculture into
services and self-employment together with the large number of unemployed out-
of-school youth and women and underemployed adults also require changing
skills and more entrepreneurship and basic livelihood training. However,
insufficient relevant training is available.
52.       The Government has already completed a restructuring of MMYC which
separated MMYC' poliev formulation and planning departments from those
responsible for managing and delivering training programs. MYXC has prepared
a five-year financial plan showing estimated project costs and sources of
financing for the project and estimated cost recovery. The Government further
intends to Improve employment and training policies and services by: (a)



- 18 -
strengthening the recently restructured NMYC through management and staff
training; (b) training NMYC and other public agency staff in policy analysis
and cost-recovery; (c) improving NNYC's and DOLE's labor market information
systems and services; (d) decentralizing management of training to NNYC's
regional offices and increasingly devolving training to employers and
communities; (e) improving coordination between NKYC and DECS through the
implementation of a Memorandum of Agreement which sets out the respective
roles of NMYC and DECS in training and education; and (f) improving the low
quality and poor management of the technical education institutions by, first,
improving the data base of technical institutions and, second, undertaking a
study to determine what needs to be done to rationalize formal technical
education.
53.       Project Objectives.  The proposed project would support the
Government's efforts in the medium term to improve employment and training
policies, strengthen employment services, improve nonformal rural basic
training and increase private sector involvement in training and cost
recovery, and in the longer term to develop strategies for improving the
efficiency of the subsector. The project's specific objectives are to:
(a) strengthen institutional capabilities of NMYC in policy formulation,
planning, management, research and evaluation of nonformal vocational training
and employment services; (b) improve training quality and cost recovery;
(c) upgrade training facilities; and (d) provide the basis for future
improvements in formal technical education through two studies, including an
identification of investment needs.
54.       Project Description.  The proposed Credit would support:  (a) Ins-
titutional Develoment: (i) strengthening of NMYC through assisting the
implementation of the restructuring of its Secretariat by management trainin,
for selected central and regional staff; (ii) training of NMYC and other
Government staff in training policy, planning and coordination; and
(iii) developing a National Manpower Information System to facilitate the
decentralization of management and strengthen employment services;
(b) Imorovement of Training Quality and Cost Recovery: (i) improving the
National Skills Certification Program and promoting similar programs in
individual industries; (ii) developing a program to train trainers;
(iii) improving curricula and training materials; (iv) strengthening guidance
and employment services; (v) developing monitoring and evaluation systems to
allow NMYC to monitor the technical, management and financial performance of
training institutions; and (v) developing mechanisms to increase cost sharing
with industry, communities and trainees; (c) Training Cagacity DeveonPment :
(i) upgrading of 14 Regional and 13 Provincial Manpower and Training Centers
(RNTCs and PMTCs); (ii) expanding enterprise-based training by private sector
firms, and improving apprenticeship training; (iii) support for rural skills
and livelihood training programs; and (d) Studisa: (i) a study of technical
education programs at secondary and post-secondary levels to develop an
investment strategy to rationalize formal technical education; and (ii) a
feasibility study of sector-specific and advanced technology training centers.
55.       The project would generate additional recurrent expenditures for
salaries and operations and maintenance resulting from the upgrading of
existing RMTCs and PMTCs and the National Skills Training Centers (O04SD), and
expansion of existing training programs. Total additional recurrent



- 19 -
expenditures are projected at US$3.5 million over the five-year project
period. This would represent an average annual increa3e of about 1.6 percent
of NMYC's current budget and is considered small, representing about one
eighth of the average annual increase in NMYC's budget allocation, which has
been growing at an annual average of 18 percent during 1987-91. There is,
however, a serious constraint on counterpart funds in 1992. Although this
constraint is axpected to ease after 1992 due to projected increases in
revenue and GDP growth, the project has been designed to allow for a gradual
increase in recurrent expenditures. If the 1991 budget allocation is taken as
the basis, the budget increase would be 0.3 percent in the first year, rising
to 0.6 percent in the second year to remain at less than one percent for the
remaining project years. In addition, NNXC is instituting measures, including
a gradual reduction in its staff size, to lower its budgetary requirements and
free up funds from budget allocations to finance new recurrent expenditures
required by the project. NMYC also has detailed plans to recover an
increasingly larger share of the cost of its training programs from the
communities, firms and trainees benefitting from the programs.
56.       The estimated total cost of the project, including US$1.8 million
in identifiable taxes and duties, is US$41.8 million equivalent with a foreign
exchange component of US$15.0 million (36 percent). The IDA Credit of
SDR 26.4 million (US$36.0 million equivalent) would finance about 90 percent
of the project cost net of taxes or 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost
and about 78 percent of local costs. A breakdown of costs and the financing
plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and
disbursements, and the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. The
timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group
operations in the Philippines are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A
map is also attached. The Staff Appraisal Report, No. 10221-PH, dated Kay 11,
1992, is being distributed separately.
57.       F Projct Imlementation and Sustainability.  The project would be
implemented over a five year period by the Project Management Unit in NMYC
which has been responsible for successfully managing the recently completed
Vocational Training Project; its capacity would be further strengthened under
the proposed project with additional training and technical assistance. The
NNYC has prepared a five year financial plan showing sources of financing for
the project and for on-going operations and detailed procurement and staff
training plans. The transfer of responsibility and financing of training to
the Local Government and employers would also help to ensure the sustainabil-
ity of project investments as would the strengthened linkages between training
institutions and industry.
58.       Strong Government commitment to improvements in the vocational
training system achieved under the recently completed Vocational Training
Project (Loan 2200-PH) and the high priority given by the Government to the
preparation of the proposed project indicate that they will be sustained in
the future. There is now a more widespread, deeper understanding of the
issues in developing skills training nationally and locally, and of the
relationships between public and private sector roles. There is also strong
Government commitment to NMYC and understanding of its role as the key policy
making and planning body for vocational training activities. Management and
manpower planning issues are still serious, but awareness has deepened and



- 20 -
their dimensions are better understood. Both have assured high profiles and
will be addressed in the proposed project. Flexibility In training delivery
and enhanced relevancy of training and quality to meet labor market needs
together wlth cost-recovery and evaluation of training are no* deeply imbedded
in NKYC's training activities.
59.       Lessons Learned from Prevlous lank QOeration.  The Bank has
assisted the Government in the education sector through ten operations, five
of which supported technical and vocational training. Except for the two most
recent projects, all have been completed. The main problem identified in
previous projects concerned delays in implementation and disbursements due to
the protracted procurement process and complex budget release and payment
procedures. These problems are being addressed as general countrywide issues
by the Government and the Bank. The sensitivity of the Bank to political-
economic changes assisted the redesign of the recently completed first
Vocational Training Project following the change in government priorities
after the revolution in 1986. Finally, lessons learned i2volving procurement
delays are being specifically addressed in the proposed prijectls design.
Bank staff are working with NMYC to improve procurement procedures. NEYC has
already prepared draft bidding documents and a procurement plan. The
implementation of the plan will be closely monitored by Bank supervision
missions.
60.      Rationale for IDA Involvement. The NNYC is a unique institution
with a mandate for national manpower planning to determine manpower needs and
for matching these with training programs. It also has major functions in
introducing cost-effective innovations through research and development and
the monitoring and evaluation of innovative training programs. Under the
First Vocational Training Project, a key objective was to buildup NMYC's
capability to execute its mandate. However, line training activities of its
own, together with political uncertainties and economic problems, mitigated
against the full realization of this particular project objective. The
proposed project is therefore noteworthy for what it does not contain as much
as for what it does. The proposed project does not focus on expansion of
training In the public sector but rather emhasizes the build-up of NMYC's
institutional capability to manage the sector and to shift training to
industry through the highly successful Training Contract Scheme begun under
the First Vocational Training Project, to enhance cost recovery and cost
sharing with the private sector, and to rehabilitate existing facilities in
order to maximize the efficiency of the existing system.
61.      Actions Agreed.  IDA has received assurances from the Government
during negotistions that it would: (a) consult IDA prior to making revisions
to the financial plan for NVYC, and (b) provide IDA a consolidated audit
report on project accounts within nine months of the end of ea#th Government
fiscal year. Understandings have been reached with the Government that it
would: (a) implement project studies, civil works rebabilitation and
equipment procurement according to agreed timetables.
62.       knlronmental-Asaecta.  The proposed project is expected to have a
positive environmental impact. It will provide skilled, environmentally aware
workers to Government's public works programs in water, sewerage and road
infrastructure. Relevant environmental concerns have been incorporated into
training programs at the training cent.ers, which serve as conduits for
disseminating environmental information.



- 21 -
63.       Imact oa Women:  Project support to NMYC would directly affect the
role of women in the areas of policy, planning and program implementation
because the NMYC Council actively participates in the formulation and
implementation of women-focused policies and the Philippine Development Plan
for Women (PDPW). Such policies and plans could be further enhanced through
developing the capabilities of policy-makers and planning staff through the
project. Women would also benefit through project support for improvement of
training quality at NKYC. Over 40 percent of the 220,000 graduates of NMYC
programs in 1991 were women. Women are also being encouraged to develop
competencies in non-traditional trades such as welding, automotive and
machine-shop. In this regard the project would pursue the efforts initiated
in 1990 under the Women in New Trades (WINT) Project which is supported by the
Government of the Netherlands. Women would also benefit from project support
to the Garment Industry Training Program which, since its inception in 1990,
has prepared more than 1,300 women for employment in industry or at home
through subcontracting.
64.       Proiect Benefits.  The project would assist in developing the
capacity to improve employment and training policies and delivery services to
increase efficiency in the labor market. It would also help to meet the skill
needs. of the economy and establish a sound basis for future expansion of the
vocational training subsector. It would support poverty alleviation by
providing skills for employment and self-employment for women and out-of-
school youth and increase the skills of the workforce for export-oriented and
value-added services requiring higher skills. It would help transfer
responsibility for training and its financing to the private sector.
65.       gro2ict RLsks.  The major risk concerns the potential constraints
on counterpart funds. The project has been designed to defer the requirements
for counterpart funds to the later years of the project when the economy is
expected to be stronger. A second risk is the possibility that the private
sector will not expand their in-house training. To minimize this risk, the
project would help to strengthen capacity to train workers in private firms,
improve apprenticeship training and extend cost sharing incentives and
advisory services to firms to develop their capacity to train workers.
66.       &Commendation,  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 11, 1992



- 22 -
isECN VOCAIONA TRININ   PROJEC
Estimatd Qosts =Ad Pianin         n
(US$ dillion)
Local       Foreign       Total
Estlmated Project Cost /A
Institutional Devalowment             5.6           3.9           9.5
Tralning Quality and Cost
Recovery                          5.7           1.3           7.0
Training Capacity Development         8.7           7.3          16.0
Studies                             J.A              0     .6
Base cost                      20.4          12.7          33.1
Physical contingencies                0.6           1.0           1.6
Price contingencies                   Sl            LA            Li
Subtotal                        6.4           6.3           8.7
Total Project Coat                                        hJJ
Kn..iaLag :
Government                            5.8           -             5.8
IDA                                 2LQ           l
Total 
IA Includes US$1.8 million In identifiable taxes.



- 23 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPIES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Procurement Method and Disbursement
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method 4A                Total
Category of Expenditure       ICB    LCB    Other          N. I. F    Cost
Civil Works                     -    2.5        -             -       2.5
-    (2.0)      -            -      (2.0)
Professional Services           -     -         0.1           -       0.1
=     -        (0.1)         -      (0.1)
Furniture                       -    0.2        -             -       0.2
=    (0.2)      -            -      (0.2)
Technical Assistance            -     -        15.8           -      15.8
and Training                                (15.8)          -     (15.8)
Equipment                      10.1   0.9       0.2           -      11.2
(8.9) (0.7)     (0.2)         -      (9.8)
Books and                       -     -         2.6           -       2.6
Conmsuable Materials          -     -        (2.2)          -      (2.2)
Enterprise-Based Training       -     -         5.9          -        5.9
-     -        (5.9)         -      (5.9)
Operations and Maintenance      -     -         -            3.5      3.5
and Staff Salaries               -       -                  -       -
Total                          10.1   3.6      24.6          3.5    41.8
(8.9) (2.9)    (24.2)         -     (36.0)
ig   All figures include contingencies; figures in parentheses are the
respective amounts financed by the IDA credit; figures may not add up
due to rounding.
Lb   Includes international shopping, direct purchase and technical
assistance contracts.
NIF: Not IDA financed.



- 24 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
(US$ million)
I
Category                          Amount          Expenditures to Financed
Civil Works                         2.0           80 percent
Equipment                           8.8           100 percent of foreign
expenditures; 100 percent of
local expenditures ex-
factory; 75 percent of other
expenditures.
Furniture, Books and
Consumable Materials              2.4           90 percent
Expert and Professional Services   3.7            100 percent
Foreign and Local Fellowships      11.7           100 percent
Enterprise-Based Training           5.8           100 percent
Unallocated                         1.6
TOTAL
Estimaeed IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                          1224    1295    1996    1227    1228
------------------- US$ million ---------------
Annual                          3.6       8.9    10.2       7.8     4.3      1.2
Cumulative                      3.6      12.5    22.7    30.5    34.8    36.0



-~~~~ m 
4  5p~   g   5                              -   bn:
1§   -                         -g g 
^0  g                D      tat .4  S
j g   g     k      U " H W i |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
a.        X  'O
'0~~~~~~~
i   *1       i 



- 26 -                                          SchWV  D
THE STATUS OF NANW OpP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. SAEMET OP DANK LOAN A            R
(AS Of Mareh S1, 1992)
Lon or                                                                                   Amoat   SS m  il lI on)
Credit   Fl5ocl                                                                        etarnm etlotin
Number  'fear         Borror                 Purpr                                           I_    U
Ninety-six loans ond SIx ereits fully  isbursed                                  3,890.42   105.18
Of which SECALS SALe, and Program, Loano
1903      1981   Rep. of t"PhilIppine.         SAL !                               199.90
2266      10o9   Rop. of the PhilIppines       SAL II                              302.25
2469      1981    Rep. of the Philppine       Agriculture Secor Input             160.00
2787      198t   Rep. of the PhlIppines       Economte Recovory Progrm            300.00
2956      1988   Rep. of the Phi I ippines     Progra  for Govt. Refor             200.m
Subtotal
22S7      198    Rep. of the PhilIppin e       Regional Cities Development          39.44                6.19
2277      1991    Rep, of the Phillppines      Environment & National Resource Mgt.          06.09      84.25
23e0      1984   Rep. of the Philippines       Control Visayns Regional Dew.        24.97                5.21
2419      1984   Rep, of the PhilIppine9       Highways V                          102.00               44.67
2435      1984   Rep. of th PhtIippines        municipal Development                40.00               15.8
2676      1986   Rep, of the Philippines       Manila Water Dlstributlon            38.00                9.42
2716      1986   Rep, of the PhilIppines       Rural Roads II                       82.00               56.41
282       1987   Rep. of the Philippines       Provincial Ports                     32.00               10.11
2948      1988   Rep. of the PhiIlppines       Irrigation Operations Support        23.50                2.97
2969      1988   Phil. National Oil Co.        Bacon-Manito Geotherml Powr          41.00                4.90
2969-1    1988   Rep. of the Philippines       Bacon-Manito Geothereal Poer         S9.00               46.44
2974      198    Rep. of the Philippines       Houslng Sector                      160.00               48.66
m088      1989   Rep. of the Philippines       Sm! IV                               60.00                5.51
3049*     1989   Rep. of the PhilIppines       Financial Sector                    300.00              150.00
3084      10s9   Dew. Bank of the Phil.        Manila Power Distribution            65.50               57.67
s309      1989   Rep. of the PhIlIppines       Health Development                   70.10               59.48
3123      1990   Dew. Sank of the Phil.        Industrial Investment Credit         65.00                 .95
3124      1990   Metro. Waterworks & Sew.      Angst Water Supply                   40.00               12.75
_146      1990   Rep. of the Philippines       Municipal Development !              40.00              #3.23
3149      190   Rep. of the Phi I lppines      Dbt  angoment Loan                  200.00               50.00
3163      1990   Phil. National Power Corp.   Energy Sector Loan                   200.00              104.39
3164      1900   Phil. National Oll Co.        Erry Sector Loan                    150.00       -      13.22
3165      1990   Rep. of the Philippins        Energy Sector Leon'                  40.00               26.65
_204      1900   Rep. of the PhIlIppine        Coconut Fars Development            121.S0              112.47
8242      1990   Rep. of.the Philppines        WS/Sewor/Sanitatlon                  86.00               76.97
8244      1981   Rep. othe Phtil pn           Second Elementary EducAtion         200.00              154.11
8261      1991   Rep. of the PhilIppine        Comunal Irrigation 2!                46.20               48.76
326s      1001   Rep. of the Philippines       Earthquake Reconstruction           125.00               92.45
3287      1991   Rep. of the PhIlIppinem       Industrial RestructOurin            175.00              104.62
8812      1091   Rep. of the PhilIppines       Cottage Enterprise                   15.00               15.00
9356      1991   Rep. of the PhilIppines       Rural Finance                       150.00              111.70
8860      1901   Rep. of te  PhilIppines       Environment & Natlonal Res. Mgt.   158.00               108.00
8480      1991   Rep. of the Philppines        Highway MVanagent                   10.0 I150.00
848       1992   Rep. of the PhilIppines       Engineering I Sie nce Education      85.00               65.00
8439      10m     N "tIonal Eloctrif. ds.      Rural Electrification                91.30               91.30
3455      1902   Rep. of the PhIlIppines       Municipal Devlopment III             68.00               68.00
Total'                                                                         7,288.22   171.13   2,180.17
of which has ben repaid                                                      184229       5.21
Total now hold by Sank and IDA                                                   .04    mm
of which repaid                            31.35
Total undisbursed                                                              2,095.98    84.25   2,130.17
Lo  The Status of the project listed In Part A Is described In a sepearte rport on all SIakIDA-filnued
project In oxecution, whieh Is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on Aptil 80
and October 31.
o    SAL, SECAL or Pram Loan'



- 27 -                                     Sch cul- D
B. 8tatoment of DFC Im  tMents
(AS of March 81, 1I=2)
Total bld Undish.incld.
FisCCl                                  Type of            Oraignal C ctmentL       by IFC    partieipanet
Year           Obligor                  Ousinet           Lin  4Equl  y   TolteI   (at coat)    portion
1I63/78    Privto. Dev. Corp.           "V. Finance       15.0      4.4    19.4      -             -
of the Philippines
19087/9    Manila Electric Co.          Utlitites         83.2      4.0    37.2     26.9          23.5
1970/U6   Phtlippine Lone               UtiIlties        127.7      0.8   128.6     82.0          24.8
19S89/0    Distance Tel. Co.
1970/72   Uariwl  a Mfg. Co.            Constructlon       0.8      0.4     1.2      -             -
mterilos
1070      Paper Ind. Corp.              Pulp A Paper       -        2.2     2.2      -             -
17n/77   Philppine Petroleum            Che"Icals/petrochem.6.2     2.1     6.3      -             -
197       Map nduque Mining             Mining            16.0      -      15.0      -             -
& Ind. Corp.
1978      Victori  Chem.Corp.           Chemical           1.9      0.8     2.2      -             -
1074      Fillptn  Synthette            Textile 3 Fiber    1.6      -       1.5      -             -
Fiber Corp.
1974/79    Maria Cristina               Electro-chmicalo  1.6       0.6     2.2      0.4           -
Gbmtc l Industry
1974      RF7 Corporstlon               Food & Food        1.2      -       1.2      -             -
Procossing
1978      Phil. Polyaside               Texti l A Fibers    7.0     -       7.0      -             -
mI. Corp.
1976      Phitagro Edible               Coconut Oil and    2.7      0.2     2.9      -             -
Oils, Inc.                   Copra
197       Sarmiento Ind.                Plywood            8.5      -       8.5      -             -
i977      AcoJ3 Mining Co Inc.          Mining             8.2      0.5     8.7      1.8           -
1976      Cobu. Shipyard and            Ship-repairing     2.1      -       2.1      -             -
Engnetering Works
1079/00   Con. milling Corp.            Food A Food        4.0      1.7     6.7      1.7           -
Processing.
1990      Venturee In Industry and      Venture capital    -        0.2     0.2      -             -
usiness Ent., In.
1900/63/86 All Asoa Capital             Equipmat Leasing  11.1      0.8    11.9      1.6           -
and Leasing
1060      Consolidated Ind.             Iadustrial Gases   4.5      -       4.S      -             -
Oa"  Inc. a
1981      PhilIppies Isociated          Copper Saslting    -        5.0     5.0      5.0           -
Smelting & Retfinig Corp.
1061      Davao Union Comant            Ceont             16.0       .8    16.0      2.9           -
Corporation
lo1       Loans to Smell A Medium       Capital Market    18.0      1.1    19.1      -             -
Scale Ent. (SMSE) /
1983      NDC4uthrl. Plantatons, Inc. Agribusones         11.0      -      11.0      0.2           -
106       Philippine Oversea            Construction      38.0/e   -       80.0      -
Contractoro
1996/91    Purfoods                     Food Proc.         -        4.2     4.2      4.5           -
196       BPI Agrtbank                  Finan. lnst.       -        1.0     1.0       1.0          -
1999      I    mwalr mPhIl. Inc.        Textiles A Fibers   3.0/    -       8.0      - 
1080      Phi Ifund                     Debt Conversion Fund-       4.2     4.2      -
1900      AO & P                        Contruction       10.0/c   -       10.0       -
1909      Habrecht a quist              Capital Fund       - -      2.2     2.2      2.2           0.e
1900      Hopll                         Power             10.0      1.1    11.1       9.4          0.1
1990      Manila Fund                   money A Capital    -        7.0     7.0       -            -
Markets
1990     FPist Phil. Fund               Money & Capital    -       29.7    29.7       -            -
Markets
1990      Avantex Mill Corp.            Textile           11.8      2.3    13.6      18.6          0.8
10        Beat Chemicals                Chemicals          6.5      2.8     6.8       6.6          0.8.
191       Automted Micro-elect.         Electronies        9.0      2.8    11.       11.0          9.5
1990      Makat, ShWnriLa               Tourisl           59.0      -      59.0      29.6         48.7
1991      PCX Bank                      Fin. Inst.        20.0/J    -      20.0       -            -
Total                                          453.6    02.0   5S5.9    212.0          70.0



- 28 -D
Tetl hold  Undslb.lacld.
Fiscal                                 Type .f             tllsl C    mt        by XFC    partlepants
Year           Obligor                ISouls..."    "IiE iTWTI                   (at ant)    portion
--..~.----ISSSmill ion-
Approved but not yet signed
1m00       Lueon Petroehmecal /b       Ptroclwmicale   90.0   15.0    105.0    -             -
1901       Vacn Sharw-Lo               Tourim           24.0   -         24.0   12.0        24.0o
1991       Philniso Nickel             mIning           90.0   25.0    105.0  30.0         105.0
Total Groa  Comltmen                                   U7.  12.0    8.   274.0           207.0
a Subsequently cancelled.
7Su uy dropped.
E  B"r  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S       4                    N~~~~~~~~



- 29 -
AtMwhnmt I
PHILPPINES KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual                   Preliminay              Projected
*                               1988    1989    1990    1991   1992    1993    1994   1995   1996
A. INCOME
GDP Growih Rate (in 1%)      6.3%    5.9%    2.4%  -1.0%    2.5%    5.0%   5.3%   5.3%   5.4%
GDY Growth Rate (in 1%)      9.0%    3.8%    1.2%   1.6%    2.0%    5.4%   5.4%   5.6%   5.4%
GDY/Capita Grow (in I%)      6.5%    1.5%    4.8%  -0.4%    0.1%    3.4%   3.4%   3.6%   3.6%
ConsmwWpion/Cap (in 1%)      4.5%    2.5%    3.3%  -0.8%   -2.1%      1.3%   2.0%   3.7%   3.6%
B. EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Senice (in US$)         3384    3750    2822   2906    2878    3898   4170   4362   4101
Debt Service/XGS            30.6%   29.4%   21.3%  20.3%   18.8%   22.7%  22.2%  21.3%  18.3%
Debt Service/GDP             8.9%    8.8%    6.4%   6.5%    6.7%    8.3%   8.1%   7.8%   6.7%
C. .IVESTMET
GrMs Investmentl1GDP        18.4%   21.9%   22.5%  20.0%   20.0%   24.0%  24.7%  24.7%  24.7%
Public InvestmentlGDP        2.3%    3.9%    5.2%   5.8%    5.6%    5.6%   5.6%   5.6%   5.6%
Private Investment/GDP      15.6%   17.0%   16.6%  14.1%   14.4%   18.4%  19.1%  19.1%  19.1%
Ratio of Public/Pvt Inves.  21.2%   19.0%   24.4%  38.7%   38.7%   30.3%  29.2%  29.2%  29.1%
D. SAVINGS
Domestic Saving/GDP         19.8%   20.6%   18.6%  16.6%   16.5%   21.9%  23.1%  23.2%  23.4%
National Saving/GDP         19.6%   20.3%   19.3%  18.6%   15.8%   20.2%  21.4%  21.8%  22.1%
Governmt Savings/GDP         0.1%    1.0%    0.3%   2.1%    1.4%    0.4%   0.7%   0.8%   0.9%
Marginal NatiorAl Savings Rate 70.3%  -10.9%  -53.7%-136.5%  -241.4%  120.4%  46.7%  28.4%  26.8%
E. GOVERNMENT BUDGET
Government Revenues/GDP     14.1%   16.5%   16.8%  17.8%   18.2%   18.4%  18.3%  18.4%  18.4%
Govement ExpendiiftunesGDP  16.9%   18.6%   20.3%  20.6%   20.4%   21.5%  21.2%  21.1%  21.1%
Deficit (-) or SuJplus (+)GDP   -2.9%   -2.1%   -3.5%  -1.5%   -2.1%   -3.1%  -2.8%  -2.7%  -2.7%
F. CURRENT ACCOUNT
ExportsGDP                  28.2%   28.5%   27.9%  30.4%   29.5%   30.7%  31.1%  31.4%  31.7%
Imports/GDP                 26.8%   30.3%   33.4%  31.3%   32.9%   32.8%  32.7%  32.8%  33.1%
Exprt Growth Rate           14.7%   10.7%    1.2%   4.6%   24.3%   15.3%  13.1%  12.3%  12.9%
Ihport Growth Rate          19.6%   1S.2%   10.0%  -3.0%   29.8%   10.4%  11.0%  11.8%  12.0%
Current Account (in US$)     -390   -1456   -2695  -1035   -1812   -1786  -1659  -1617  -1619
Current Acount/GDP          -1.0%   -3.4%   -6.1%  -3.0%   -4.2%   -3.8%  -3.2%  -2.9%  -2.6%



IBRO 23477R
CLASSIFICAnON OF PROVINC                                                   P HI P   I N E S
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS                                             SECOND VOCATIONAL
TRAINING PROJECT
10006        VI WmNWS10
II 14eNail      3a AMo.
2 Ihw SW         39 c-                                                    REGIONAL MANPOWER AND
3 to tJUi        40 AAiq.                     t s                     0      TRAiNIG CENTERS (RMTCs)
4 PUIpIII        41 Id.
4A 0UR~I5R~I   41 Neo0gdua                                                     ROICIMANPOWER AND
CAR       (E            42                                                  A   PccW"A  TRJNING CNTERS (PMTC)
SM          VII 5 4Th
7 5                    N.' 4                   4, NATIONAL CAPITAL
3'!9a~a P7 nc 45 Z74 O&AmI
*            8 W90 4&VA 4 I
9 BnWua          47 $W4br                   I-                            PROVINCE BOUNDARPES
It C0A,N"VPJW   Vill  EmWM  M
)           loIatan           48 NMm=wnSm                    6                     - _   Et ON BOUNDAPJES
I1 ICagayan       49 Wasaslhm lm
1 a               si,  So                                               R  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAPRES
l4Qkin.           52&MtumIi*b               I 
15 NM" eE    IX WEUN  2W A
b6Td"           54 Zvd,_WdoNe t 4o  f t*
17 ?aWmberi       5~5 Zam-bemige lsw                                                            MO
1I8 h"Welpoo      56 Sidle
19 1$go           575.$u                       13  14c o IS O 1                             0 laO   200
20 b4omaa        $a lelil                                                                            lit
1*EA          X N0MM        4AN/NO
RN G psri 59 Wp                                  .>N
FV SoMmvekoe    60 C"44nlgI22
21 Auimr1Aj" d ro                                        UO
223'j.zn          61 2                  II              LUZON
23 Rkw            42 Mambodinhl     lb
24 Caib.          64 hIeId#amn
23 xalww         66 Agwadd3w                                                  PHILIPPINE SEA
26 81 es     XI SOU1N4MMNMAW
27 eintit" duurq   S
28 MAdotoOtil     67 Dwto0rkiuald
29 M1111M Ongdadil   de Dinv.dd Ned
30  1             69  davao" &<
31 lOwaua         70S      C loklitaCabot
32 Ca111"im Nmu   71 lodaiWNod\
33 rw_nIag SW     72 lamod&a\W
j 34Cwnduauw      73 No% C.b a1 
35Ay              74 Mauy_               IV   2
36 Samagca        755M   adI
37 Maabah                                                                    '48
SOUTH CHINA
SEA
~~~~~~~~~~~A C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
OSCA
,.     tJrvrJ-itW
Aqm                        SULU           C8iebes Soo
La                          *rA.camsaaa.dqo
ItACH 1992



