Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10221-PH
Report No. 10221-PH Type: (SAR)
BREDIE, J./ X81216 / E-9037/ ASTPH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
MAY 11, 1992
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of August 31, 1991)
Currency Unit   =  Philippine Peso (P)
P 1   - US$0.036
US$1.00 = P 28
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      -      Asian Development Bank
BTVE     -      Bureau of Technical and Vocational Education
COA      -      Commission on Audit
CTC      -      Community Training Center
CTU      -      Community Training Unit
DECS     -      Department of Education, Culture and Sports
DOLE     -      Department of Labor and Employment
DSWD     -      Department of Social Welfare and Development
DTI      -      Department of Trade and Industry
HRD      -      Human Resources Development
IDA      -      International Development Association
ICB      -      International Competitive Bidding
ILO      -      International Labour Office
JICA     -      Japan International Cooperation Agency
LCB      -      Local Competitive Bidding
LGU      -      Local Government Unit
NEDA     -      National Economic and Development Authority
NGO      -      Non-Governmental Organization
NMIS     -      National Manpower Information System
NMYC     -      Nationial Manpower and Youth Council
OMSD     -      National Skills Training Center
OSY      -      Out-of-School Youth
PCR      -      Project Completion Report
PMTC     -      Provincial Manpower and Training Center
PMU      -      Project Management Unit
PPAR     -      Project Performance Audit Report
RMDO     -      Regional Manpower Development Office
RMTC     -      Regional Manpower and Training Center
SAT      -      School of Arts and Trade
SOE      -      Statement of Expenditure
TA       -      Technical Assistance
TAC      -      Training Assistance Contract
TCS      -      Training Contract Scheme
TDIS     -      Training Delivery System for the Rural Informal Sector
TEI      -      Technical Education Institute
UNDP     -      United Nations Development Programme
USAID    -      United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to Decewber 31
SCHOOL YEAR
June - March



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:       Republic of the Philippines
BengficiaXy:    National Manpower and Youth Council (NMYC)
Amount:         SDR 26.4 million  (US$36.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard, with 35 years' maturity.
Project
DescriRtion:   Faced with persistent unemployment and growing under-employ-
ment, the Government of the Philippines is creating an
environment conducive to investment and, thereby, employment
generation. It also plans to improve efficiency in the labor
market by, among other things, improving labor market informa-
tion and employment services which are currently inadequate,
and strengthening the policies, plans and delivery services
for vocational training, which have become unresponsive to
changing employment conditions and skill needs in the economy.
To support these efforts, the project would: (a) strengthen
institutional capabilities in policy formulation, planning,
and management of nonformal vocaLional training and employment
services; (b) improve training staadards by strengthening
training support services and developing mechanisms to
increase cost sharing and cost recovery for training; (c)
improve facilities and programs for nonformal vocatioral.
education by (i) upgrading 14 Regional and 13 Provincial
Manpower and Training Centers and the National Skills Training
Center operated by NMYC, (ii) providing incentives to the
private sector to increase its provision of on-the-job
training, (iii) improving the apprenticeship program, and (iv)
supporting training in rural areas for women as well as
unemployed and out-of-school youth; and (d) conduct two
studies under the auspices of the Council of NMYC to:
(i) define a strategy and investment plan for the
rationalization and improvement of formal technical and
vocational education and training, and (ii) determine the
feasibility of establishing sector specific -nd advanced
technology training centers.
Benefits:       The project would assist in developing the capacity to improve
employment and training policies and delivery services to
increase efficiency in the labor market. It will also help to
meet the skill needs of the economy and establish a sound
basis for future expansion of the training sector. It would
support poverty alleviation by providing skills for employment
and self-employment for women and out-of-school youth and
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
increase the skills of the work force for export-oriented and
value-added services requiring higher skills. It would help
transfer the burden of training and its financing to the
private sector.
Risks:          The major risk concerns the potential constraints on counter-
part funds. The project has been designed to defer the
requirements for counterpart funds to the later years of the
project when the economy is expected to be stronger. A second
risk is the possibility that the private sector may not be
responsive to the need to expand their in-house training. To
minimize this risk, the project would help to strengthen
industry's capacity to train workers in private firms, improve
apprenticeship training and extend cost sharing incentives and
advisory services to firms to develop their capacity to train
workers.
Estimated Cost:                                        Local   Foreign   Total
------(US$ million)-----
Institutional Development                              5.6        3.9      9.5
Improvement of Training Quality and Cost Recovery    5.7          1.3      7.0
Training Capacity Development                          8.7        7.3    16.0
Studies                                                0.4        0.2      0.6
Base Cost                                        20.4       12.7    33.1
Physical contingencies                                 0.6        1.0      1.6
Price contingencies                                    5.8        1.3      7.1
Sub Total                                         6.4        2.3      8.7
Total Project Cost /a                            26.8       15.0    41.8
Financing Plan:
Government                                             5.8        -        5.8
IDA                                                   21.0       15.0    36.
Total                                            26.        15.0    41.8
Est. Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
12993    1994      1995       199i      1997      1998
------------------ (US$ million) -------------------
Annual                       3.6     8.9       10.2        7.8       4.3      1.2
Cumulative                  3.6    12.5        22.7       30.5      34.8    36.0
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable
IiR: IBRD No. 23477R
Lg   Includes US$1.8 million in identifiable taxes; figures may not add up
due to rounding.



- iii -
PHILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I.    ECONOMIC TRENDS AND THEIR IMPACT ON EMPLOYMENT  . . . . . . .1
II.   POLICIES AND SERVICES FOR EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING   . . . . .          4
A.  Employment & Training Policies: Formulation  . . . . . .
and Coordination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          5
B.  Employment Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          8
C.  Training Plans and Training Delivery Services   . . . . .         9
D.  Training Quality and Demand for Training . . . . . . . .         11
E.  ;osts and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         13
.  Strategy for Development of Vocational Training and  . .
Technical Education  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         14
III.  THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17
A.  Project Formulation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          17
B.  Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         17
C.  Project Description  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  17
IV.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . .         22
A.  Costs   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  22
B.    Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
C.  Project Management and Implementation   . . . . . . . . .        26
D.  Procurement   ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
E.    Disbursement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  a  .  29
F.  Accounts, Audits Monitoring and Reporting   . . . . . . .         30
G.  Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         30
H.  Impact on Women   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         31
I.  Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         31
V.    BENEFITS AND RISKS  . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         31
A.  Benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  31
B.   Risks  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  32
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . . . .         33
This report is based on the findings of a May 1991 appraisal mission
consisting of Messrs. J. Bredie (mission leader), R. Prosser (ASTPH), and
T. Coyle, G. Hurley, R. Noonan and Ms. E. Tan (consultants). Mr. I. Morris
(consultant) participated in the pre-appraisal and contributed to the report.
Messrs. W. Rees and J. Segerstrom (ASTPH) were the peer reviewers. The report
was cleared by B. Babson (Chief, EA1PH), and C. Madavo (Director, EA1DR).



- iv -
Page No.
TABLE IN THE TEXT
4.1  Summary of Project Costs by Component . . . . . . . . . . .    23
4.2  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expeniiture . . . .    24
4.3  Financing  Plan.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
4.4  Summary of Procurement Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
ANNEXES
1.  NMYC:  Institutional Strengthening. . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
2.  Summary of the Policy Paper:  "Vocational and Technical
Education Towards a Long-Term Policy Paper for the
Subsector, July 1990 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
3.  Summary of "Memorandum of Agreement between the Department
of Education, Culture and Sports and the Bureau of
Technical and Vocation Education and the Department of
Labor and Employment and the National Manpower and
Youth  Council".    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  42
4.  Status of Apprenticeship Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
5.  Sharing the Burden:  Privatization, Decentralization and
Devolution.    .  .   .   .   .  .  .   .   .  .  .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .  49
6.  NMYC 5 year Financing Plan ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   51
7.  Project Components by year ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   52
8.  Summary of Technical Assistance Component .  . . . . . . . .   56
9.  Implementation Schedule  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   70
10.  Disbursement Schedule and Profile .  . . . . . . . . . . . .   72
11.  Supervision Plan ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   74
12.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File.    75
CHART
National Manpower and Youth Council - Organizational Chart
IBRD No. 23477



PHILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
I. ECONOMIC TRENDS AND THEIR IMPACT ON EMPLOYMENT
Introduction
1.1       High levels of unemployment and underemployment and low rates of
productivity growth have been characteristic features of Philippine economic
development in the last two decades. In recent years, the Philippine
Government has implemented a range of economic reforms designed to return the
economy to a sustained growth path and improve efficiency. These measures are
beginning to have results. The economy recovered substantially during 1987-
89, following the mid-1980s recession, with economic growth averaging about 6
percent per annum. However, due to a combination of external shocks and
natural disasters, economic growth slowed to less than one percent in 1991.
Despite the general improvements, pressures in the labor market, which
resulted from the severe unemployment during the economic recession, are only
slowly abating. Employment data is either non-existent or weak but
indications are that employment growth remains inadequate, with significant
levels of unemployment and growing underemployment, while labor is
inefficiently deployed in the economy. Labor markets in both urban and rural
areas are changing rapidly due to declining industrial and agricultural
employment and increasing work opportunities in agro-industry, the services
sector, small- and medium-size manufacturing and the production of
nontraditional exports in free trade zones.  Faced with persistent
unemployment and changes in the structure of the labor market, the Government
is liberalizing investment laws with the aim of increasing employment in
labor-intensive manufacturing and agriculture and allowing foreign ownership
of enterprises. It is also committed to improving efficiency in the labor
market by, among other things, improving employment services and rationalizing
the policies, plans and delivery services for vocational training.
Recent Economic Performance
1.2       While the Philippine economy experienced a real rate of growth of
more than 6 percent in the 1970s, distortions in the pattern of incentives
resulted in inefficient investments (particularly in large-scale, capital-
intensive import-substitution industries), low levels of savings and slow
employment growth. Following a period of modest growth in the early 1980s,
the economy entered a deep recession during 1983-85. In 1984, the worst year
of the recession, GDP declined 6 percent and investment slumped sharply by 43
percent and was to fall a further 21 percent and 9 percent in 1985 and 1986,
respectively. In 1986, unemploymant peaked at 11.1 percent.
1.3       During 1987-89, the economy recovered across a broad front, with
GDP growing at 5.7 percent per annum. Investment partly recovered from the
declines of the mid-1980s, reaching 22 percent of GDP in 1989. Notwith-
standing the improvements in economic performance in the second half of the
1980s, in 1989 real GDP had just only recovered its 1980 level on a per capita
basis. Unemployment remained high at 8.4 percent, and productivity was only
marginally higher than in 1970. This compares unfavorably with some



-2-
neighboring countries like Thailand, where productivity almost doubled during
this period, and Malaysia, where it increased by about 60 percent.
1.4       The economic recovery weakened in 1990.  GDP grew at 2.5 percent,
partly as a result of a series of natural disasters and exogenous shocks --
most notably, a severe earthquake and the Gulf crisis -- as well as delayed
policy response led to a widening of the consolidated public sector and
current accounts deficits. In 1991, after a new stabilization program was put
in place, fiscal and external imbalances improved considerably. These
positive developments were however accompanied by a further slowdown of
economic activity, as new natural disasters -- the volcanic eruption of Mount
Pinatubo and flash floods in Leyte -- hit the Philippines. As a result of
these events, and lagged effects of the developments of 1990, GDP growth in
1991 was a negative one percent. Also, unemployment is expected to worsen in
1992 and could reach 15 percent according to the Department of Labor and
Employment.
roRulation Trends and the Labor Force
1.5       The country's rapid population growth has magnified the effects of
its economic problems. During the 1980s, the Philippine population grew at an
average annual rate of about 2.5 percent which, by exceeding the rate of GDP
growth, resulted in a decline in real per capita income. The rapid rate of
population growth combined with increasing labor market participation rates,
particularly for women (para. 1.11), caused the labor force to expand from
17.3 million in 1980 to 22.5 million in 1990, with 28.6 million projected for
the year 2000. While employment growth kept pace with the incremental growth
of the labor force -- both grew at around 3.5 percent p.a. over the 1980s --
employment will need to grow faster than the work force if unemployment is to
decline.
DeveloRments in the Labor Market
1.6       The country's faltering economic performance and population
increases resulted in fluctuations and distress in the labor market and the
emergence of five dominant trends: persistent unemployment and growing
underemployment, the transfer of employment from agriculture into the services
sector and small- and medium-scale manufacturing, increased self-employment,
rural-urban migration, and an increase in the labor participation rate.
1.7       Persistent UnemDloyment and UnderemRloyment.  The backlog of
unemployment and underemployment observed in the early 1980s has continued and
become even worse. Unemployment rose from 5 percent in 1980 to about 11
percent in 1986 and then decreased to 8 percent in 1990, when about 2.0
million people were unemployed despite improved economic performance.
Unemployment is expected to increase in 1992 to about 15 percent. Open
unemployment almost entirely involves young high school or college graduates -
- about 70 percent of the unemployed have a high school education. Only about
10 percent are household heads, and the majority of those, at least in urban



- 3 -
areas, are under 25 years old.1/ Underemployment figures provide an even
more important indication of the nature and extent of labor market distress.
Nearly one third of the work force worked less than 40 hours a week, and well
over one fifth of the work force wanted to work longer hours throughout the
1980s.
1.8        pjRloyent Growth in the Service Sector and Smaller-scale
Manufac&uJng. During the 1980s, the share of service sector employment
increased from one third to 40 percent of total employment, while
agriculture's share fell from one half to 45 percent and the industrial
sector's share remained at about 15 percent. For most of the 1980s, service
sector activities accounted for more than half of the additions to the labor
force -- much of this in the informal sector. The manufacturing sector's
share of employment fell from just under 11 percent in 1980 to 9.2 percent in
1986, but almost regained the 1980 levels by 1990, reflecting a growth rate of
3.5 percent p.a. during 1986-90. During the same period, employment in
cottage as well as small- and medium-scale enterprises 2/ in rural areas
increased by 2.' percent. The Philippines differs from other countries with
similar incoui.z levels in that the service sector has a relatively high share
of total employment compared to manufacturing and agriculture, but a typically
low share of output.
1.9       Rural-Urban Migratio.  Changes in the sectoral composition of
employment have also resulted in changes in the location of employment
opportunities. These trends can be expected to continue in the 1990s. There
has been significant rural-urban migration. Urban employment grew at about
5.5 percent over the 1980s -- much faster than total employment, which has
grown at 3.5 percent, and rural employment at 2.1 percent. Urban employment
in 1990 accounted for just under 37 percent of the total, compared to 29
percent in 1980, while rural employment declined from 70 percent in 1980 to 64
percent in 1988. In rural areas, two thirds of the labor force work in the
agricultural sector and one quarter in the service sector. In urban areas,
nearly two thirds of employment is in the service sector and only 13 percent
is in agriculture. Industrial employment accounts for 10 percent of
employment in rural areas and a significant 23 percent in urban centers.
1.10      Increased Self-Employment.  The 1980s saw a rapid growth in self-
employment. Of the 21.5 million employed in 1988, 9.8 million (46 percent)
were wage and salary earners, 8.3 million (38 percent) were self-employed, and
3.4 million (16 percent) were unpaid family labor. On a sectoral basis, wage
and salary earners accounted for 76 percent of economic activity in industry,
61 percent in the service sector and 24 percent in agricultural. Self-
1/ In 1988, the population aged 15-24 was estimated at just over 10
million, of which only 4.3 million (43%) were employed. Just over 4
million were urban based (35% employed) and just under 6 million were in
rural areas (48% employed).
2/ Official statistics define small and medium-size industries as those
employing less than 10, and 100 - 200 persons, respectively, and with a
total investment of less than P 500,000 and P 5 - 9 20 million,
respectively.



-4-
employment accounts for only 8 percent of industrial employment but 32 percent
of service sector employment and 59 percent of agricultural employment.
Unpaid family labor is relatively low outside of agriculture (28 percent) and
the wholesale and retail trade (14 percent). Over the 1980s, self-employment
expanded faster (at 3.4 percent a year) than wage and salary employment (at
3.1 percent a year). The vast majority of self-employment growth has,
however, been in urban-based service sector activities, with their typically
low income and productivity levels.
1.11      Increase in the Labor Participation Rate.  Labor participation
rates have increased sharply -- particularly for females. The male
participation rate increased from about 78 percent in 1980 to 84 percent in
1989, while the female participation rate increased from about 41.5 percent to
49 percent over the same period. Participation rates are procyclical and
increase when GDP and employment are growing.
II. POLICIES AND SERVICES FOR EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING
2.1       Faced with persistent unemployment and changes in the structure of
the labor market, the Government is liberalizing investment laws with the aim
of increasing employment in labor-intensive manufacturing and agriculture and
allowing foreign ownership of enterprises. Increased investments will be the
basic requirement for improving employment in the Philippines, but they must
be supported by active employment policies to provide incentives for
employment creation, improve labor mobility and strengthen labor market
information systems, to assist workers to adjust to changes in the labor
market. Training policies are intimately linked with employment and the
Government is presently most concerned that the limited relevance of current
training programs are important constraints to employment and to improving
productivity and economic competitiveness. The Government is committed to
improving the relevance of employment and training policies as well as
services. Existing employment policies are no longer responsive to the
rapidly changing conditions in the labor market due to the paucity of manpower
data and consequential poor policy analysis. Furthermore, management capacity
of the responsible institutions require improvement. Employment services are
poorly managed and insufficient to provide labor market information and
assistance to persons seeking employment. The existing training policies,
like those for employment, have not been updated since 1974, and as a result
firms are not committed or prepared to train their workers, apprenticeship
training is declining and sev_ral pre-employment education and training
programs are no longer relevant to the changing skill needs in the economy.
The project would assist the Government in improving its data base, its
analytic capabilities and the capacity of the responsible institutions to
formulate employment and training policies and manage the delivery of
employment and training services.



5 -
A. EmRloyment and Training Policies: Formulation and Coordination
Policy Formulation
2.2       Several Government departments are respo,.qible for training and
employment policies: the National Economic and De    iment Authority (NEDA) is
responsible for linking macroeconomic development  .a planning with human
resources development; the Department of Education, Culture and Sports (DECS)
is responsible for education policies and plans; and the Department of Labor
and Employment (DOLE), the National Manpower and Youth Council (NMYC), and the
Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) are responsible for employment and
training policies. According to the 1974 New Labor Code (para. 2.8), NMYC is,
in addition, responsible for policy and program coordination and for manpower
planning and training.
2.3       The performance of these agencies with respect to employment and
training policies has been uneven. NEDA has not been very effective in
linking macroeconomic policies with human resources development. DECS's
planning divisions have focused on policies regarding primary and secondary
education. Linkages between education and employment have not been its
primary concern, mostly because of a lack of expertise in this area. DOLE is
responsible for the macro-economic employment policy framework but has
focussed more on manpower projections, labor legislation and overseas workers.
Although DOLE prepares annual employment plans, these plans fail to link
macroeconomic policies related to, for instance, the removal of trade
restrictions, price controls and financial incentives for capital, with
employment policies and employment promotion. NMYC has undertaken analysis of
trends in employment and demand for training but, until recently, has not
formulated employment or training policies. DTI operates a number of training
centers but lacks staff resources in the area of industrial labor and
employment policies. To improve policy analysis and planning for employment
and training, the DOLE, NMYC, DECS and DTI staff responsible for these
activities require additional training.
Coordination
2.4       The weak polic; .-nalysis capacity of the Government departments has
been partly due to NMYC'* preoccupation with implementation of training
programs. NMYC comprises a Council, which is responsible for long-term
national manpower planning, and a full-time Secretariat. The Council includes
representatives from concerned Government departments, private sector
employers, workers, welfare and youth organizations and is chaired by the
Secretary of DOLE, with the Secrecary of DECS as Vice Chairman   It has four
standing committees for the industrial, agricultural, and services sectors and
for non-formal education.
2.5       The Secretariat, headed by a Director General, coordinates the work
of the Council and prepares or solicits policy papers, plans, and proposals
for the Council's consideration. It has four departments: the Office of
Manpower Planning and Coordination (OMPC), the Office of Industry Manpower and
Incentives (OIMI), the Institute of Vocational Training and Development
(IVTD), and the Office of Manpower Skills Development (OMSD). Each of the
four departments was established to provide policy directions and develop



strategies for .he utilization of the country's labor force, drawing on
expertise of the staff and specialists in academia as well as the public and
private sectors. Because NMYC's mandate includes the provision of training,
the four departments, especially those concerned with skills development and
industrial manpower, came to focus on line functions in support of NMYC's
growing training infrastructure and programs. However, this is now changing
(para. 2.6). NMYC's Secretariat manages 14 Regional Manpower Development
Offices (RMDOs), 14 Regional Manpower and Training Centers (RMTCs), 13
Provincial Manpower and Training Centers (PMTCs), the National Skills Training
Center (OMSD) and about 120 Community Training Units (CTUs). It was therefore
more of a training agency than a Secretariat to the Council. The operations
of the Council, and more generally, the national formulation of policies for
employment and training, had been neglected.
2.6       The Government is jtrengthening policy coordination.  The NMYC has
separated its policy formulation, planning and research departments from those
responsible for managing and delivering training programs. Under the project,
NMYC's management staff would be trained to plan and supervise the work of the
Secretariat. Its professional staff and selected staff from council member
agencies would be trained in policy analysis, planning, research, and training
technology and delivery to serve national skill development needs. Major
responsibilities for managing the training programs would be decentralized to
the RMDOs and, in time, the communities. The project would support NMYC's
reorganization, through staff training and the establishment of a national
manpower information system to facilitate decentralization of its training
management functions and to support its various other functions. The NMYC is
discussed in more detail in Annex 1 and its new organizational structure is
shown in Chart 1. This major reorganization has been ongoing during project
preparation which influenced the direction and process and was completed, de
facto, at the end of 1991.
Policies
2.7       Because of the weak policy analysis capacity and poor coordination,
the existing employment policies are no longer relevant to conditions in the
labor market. Policies regarding wages, unemployment insurance, chi:d labor,
etc. have not been updated, and critical issues in employment policy and labor
relations are not being addressed. For example, the current minimum wage
policy may not increase employment of youth, as intended, since minimum wages
are relatively high in the Philippines compared to those of neighboring
countries. The policy may also discourage foreign investment and discriminate
against foreign firms that follow labor regulations and face high wage costs
compared to some local firms not complying with regulations. This and other
policies now being pursued only serve to lower efficiency in the labor market.
As an initial step in improving employment policies, selected DOLE staff need
to be trained to strengthen their capacity for policy formulation.
2.8       Policies for training and technical and vocational education are
contained in the 1974 Labor Code of the Philippines. The Labor Code calls
for: (a) the establishment of industry boards to ensure the participation of
workers and employers in training; (b) the provision of incentives in the form
of tax deductions to persons and enterprises undertaking training; and (c) the
creation of trade standards, testing and certification schemes. Implementa-



- 7 -
tion of the Code is weak and several provisions are no longer followed. How-
ever, due to a lack of well trained management and staff resources as well as
poor coordination, the Code has not been updated and no training policies (or
plans) have been produced during the past few years. Recently, however,
several steps have been taken to update the Labor Code and to define training
policies which supplement and strengthen the provisions of the 1974 Code.
Under the auspices of NEDA, the NMYC Secretariat in 1990 commissioned the
preparation of a basic training policy paper (dated July 27, 1990) which was
discussed and approved by the NMYC Council in June 1991. The policy generally
follows the 1991 World Bank Policy Paper, Vocational and Technical Education
and Training. The main points of the Government's basic training policy are
summarized in Annex 2.
2.9       Under the new policy, training responsibilities would be divided
between NMYC and DECS, with NMYC responsible for nonformal vocational training
and DECS for formal vocational and technical education. A Memorandum of
Agreement between DECS and NMYC, to clarify this division of responsibilities,
was signed in August 1991. Steps to implement the agreement were formalized
with the signing of an Executive Directive in January 1992. The principle
points of the Memorandum of Agreement are summarized in Annex 3.
2.10      According to the new policy, the Government plans to: (a) improve
the linkages between nonformal and formal training programs; (b) raise the
quality of training; (c) increase the role of employers in training and cost
sharing; and (d) improve vocational guidance and information about training
programs. Several steps to implement the policy have recently been taken. To
improve linkages with DECS programs, NMYC is sharing curricula and trade
testing programs with DECS. It is also expanding incentives and support to
employers to increase their role in training and it is improving vocational
guidance at the RMDOs. The full implementation of the new policies,
especially for quality improvement, increasing cost recovery and expanding
private sector training would require training of NMYC staff and technical
assistance to develop the data bases and methodologies for analysis, and the
management, coordination and implementation of training strategies.
2.11      Although the policy paper addresses several basic issues, it fails
to deal with important issues such as the role, quality and regulation of
private technical institutes; the lack of efficiency of formal pre-employment
training programs; the devolution of training to communities and employers;
and the means for increasing cost sharing and cost recovery. NMYC has been
unable to address these issues adequately because it lacks the capacity to
collect and analyze data and formulate and present options for the Council's
consideration. Assistance in this regard would be provided under the project
for the training of key staff in policy analysis, economics, manpower planning
and research.
2.12      In December 1991 a Congressional Commission on Education (EDCOM)
issued a report recommending sweeping reforms for improving education and
training in the rhilippines. In the area of vocational training, the EDCOM
proposals are consistent with the policy directions already adopted by the
NMYC council, and include (a) transferring responsibility for technical
education and job related training to local authorities and industry groups;
(b) reforming the apprenticeship program; (c) significantly increasing cost



-8-
recovery from beneficiaries; (d) establishing a national agency to oversee the
planning coordination, monitoring and resource allocation for technical
education and skills development in both public and private sectors; and (e)
strengthening the linkage between national employment planning and technical
education and skill development planning. While it may take some time before
the EDCOM report is acted upon by the Legislative and Executive branches of
Government, the project would advance many of the policy goals cited by the
report and would provide improved policy analysis capacity and data to support
decision making in the future. The substantial staff training and technical
assistance component of the project was welcomed by EDCOM as a timely
intervention to support their recommendations.
B. Employment Services
2.13      Employment services to assist workers in finding jobs and to
provide information on employment and training opportunities are provided by
only one public agency in the Philippines, i.e., DOLE. DOLE operates
Community Exchange Centers to match labor supply and demand in local labor
markets, while its Philippine Overseas Employment Administration does the same
for overseas labor markets (in 1991, almost 50,000 Filipinos were employed as
Overseas Contract Workers). In addition, NMYC provides employment, training,
and trade certification services through its various offices. However, the
local labor market services are underbudgeted, insufficient in number and
coverage, and lack necessary labor market information and data processing
capability. DOLE's Philippine Overseas Employment Administration primarily
register job seekers and process contracts but its role is small and private
employment agencies secured more than 90 percent of the contracts for overseas
workers in 1990. NMYC employment officers in its RMDOs undertake regular
local employment surveys and assist Out-of School Youth (OSYs) and others
looking for work with the job application process. However, only about 20,000
of the estimated 2.6 million OSY, unemployed and underemployed, were helped by
the RMDOs in 1988. NMYC, like the other agencies, is unable to improve and
expand its employment services since resources for these purposes are not
available. This will begin to be addressed under the project. An information
system will be established at NMYC headquarters and the RMDOs to collect and
analyze labor market information and staff will be trained in data processing,
vocational guidance and employment counselling.
2.14      NMYC also has a mandate to set trade standards and issue trade
certificates. A well functioning trade standards and certification system can
provide signals to employers regarding the availability of skills in the work-
force, which would be useful in investment or technology decisions. NMYC, in
cooperation with industry, has developed 266 standards and conducts regular
trade tests in training centers and in industry. Despite this, the current
system is limited in coverage and acceptance. Furthermore, few of the
existing standards are in critical areas. Several industries are therefore
developing their own standard and certification systems with the assistance of
NMYC. The trade standards and certification system would be strengthened
under the project through increased involvement of industry to facilitate
recruitment and more efficient deployment and utilization of skills in the
economy.



- 9 -
C. Training Plans and Training Delivery Services
Training Plans
2.15      In the past, NMYC had adopted the then typical centralized approach
for national manpower planning which has proved to be ineffective internation-
ally. In its place, NMYC is now using the more realistic micro-planning
methodology. This is based on local strategic human resource development
(HRD) issues in the economy arising from investments and emerging skill
requirements in strategic high-growith or high-technology areas. Information
about strategic HRD issues is usually generated by many sources, including
business associations, academia, financial institutions, consulting firms, and
local employment surveys. The staffs of the NMYC secretariat and other
departments responsible for training/employment policies and plans would
therefore need to be trained in new methodologies focussing on strategic
analysis and covering a wider range of data and information provided by both
the public and private sectors. NMYC's role in coordinating the analysis of
HRD issues by other public and private sector agencies would also need to be
developed. Technical assistance, training and computer support would be
provided under the project to address these needs.
Skills Training: Current Situation and Major Issues
2.16      The economy's changing skill needs combined with the rapidly
growing labor force should ideally be matched with a flexible and relevant
system of vocational training and technical education institutions and
programs. However, this is not the case in the Philippines. The existing
training system is characterized by weak and variable demand for training and
uneven quality of programs, predominance of public sector financed formal pre-
employment training, limited training by private fitms and large variations in
unit costs. The major providers of vocational training and technical
education are NMYC and DECS. NMYC programs are part of the nonformal
educational system, which largely comprises vocational education for OSYs and
training of apprentices and employees in private firms. DECS programs are
part of the formal educational system comprising technical and technician
education programs of one or more years duration. Formal training is also
provided by the private proprietary training centers. Informal training is
given in specialized fields by the Departments of Agriculture (DA), Social
Welfare and Development (DSWD), and Trade and Industry (DTI), as well as
private training centers. In addition, DECS, NMYC, DSWD, and a large number
of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) provide informal pre-vocational
training, mostly at the literacy and livelihood level.
2.17      NMYC offers a wide range of nonformal vocational training.  This
includes courses at their regional and provincial centers and short,
community-based courses in livelihood and cottage skills for women, short
trades courses for OSYs, and other courses for unemployed adults as well as
support for the in-service training of workers in private firms, either on-
the-job or at training centers. Course offerings are based on local employ-
ment surveys. More than 200,000 persons were trained in 1991, and demand is
increasing. Each year, NMYC offers six-month basic-level courses in more than
12 trades to approximately 22,000 OSY and adults (including a large number of
women), preparing them for semi-skilled jobs. It also offers a small number



- 10 -
of intermediate-level courses, mostly for employed or unemployed adults
seeking skilled jobs, as well as courses aimed specifically at the leather,
garment, construction, and metal working industries.
2.18      DECS, through its Bureau of Technical and Vocational Education
(BTVE), provides center-based pre-employment training for about 190,000
persons a year in basic, intermediate and higher-level skills. More than 600
private training centers (both profit and non-profit) similarly train about
140,000 persons annually at a variety of levels. DECS exercises some control
over the private sector training institutions, although the majority are
autonomous. At the secondary level, training is provided at public and
private vocational high schools, which enroll some 87,000 students (2.3
percent of all high schools students) in agriculture, fishery and trade
programs. Vocational education at the post-secondary level is available at
private and public Schools of Arts and Trades (SATs), which each year offer
one- and two-year programs to approximately 230,000 students preparing for
skilled and supervisory positions. More specialized education is provided by
Technical Education Institutes (TEIs), which offer three-year post-secondary
technical education to approximately 6,000 students each year preparing for
supervisory and technician positions. In addition, Colleges of Arts and Trade
as well as state and private colleges and universities offer programs in
industrial technology and engineering, preparing technical teachers and
undergraduate and graduate engineers.
2.19      With the exception of a few large corporations, most firms provide
no in-house training. Efforts by NMYC to promote employer training by
providing incentives through cost-sharing have met with mixed results.
Employers have been willing to cover about 60 percent of the cost of NKYC
training schemes for firm employees, but few firms are training workers on
their own or have developed an in-house training capacity. NMYC is now
planning to assist medium- and large-size firms to develop in-house training
capacities by training supervisors as trainers and assisting with program and
training material development. Small firms, however, lack resources for in-
house training and would continue to be assisted by NMYC.
2.20      Apprenticeship training, combining employment and training under a
contract, is also limited. Due to a lack of resources for apprenticeships and
uneven acceptance of the program, the number of apprentices registered with
DOLE's Division of Apprenticeship declined from more than 37,000 in 1980 to
less than 9,000 in 1989. In 1986, an amendment to the Labor Code restricted
the duration of apprenticeships to six months to correct for the long periods
of low wages, inadequate training, and lack of legal protection which had
crept into the system. In 1990, a project to overhaul the system was started
with assistance from the United Nations Development Program and the
International Labor Office (UNDP/ILO). The project convened a national
tripartite congress which recommended that responsibility for apprenticeship
training be transferred to NMYC. The necessary bills to effect this change
are currently under consideration in the Philippine Legislature. Rebuilding a
viable apprenticeship system will take some time to accomplish, but the
project will support NMYC in its initial efforts. The apprenticeship system
is discussed further in Annex 4.



- 11 -
D. Training Quality and Demand for Training
2.21      Nonformal Training (NMYC).  The quality of nonformal training by
NMYC, DTI and DSWD is generally good. The livelihood and entrepreneurship
training programs are based on local demand and surveys of employment. Local
governments contribute up to 50 percent of the cost, and trainees bring their
own training materials.  In many cases, local NGOs conduct the training and
provide financing and marketing assistance in the entrepreneurship training
programs. Expansion of these programs to meet increasing demand will,
however, require external support. Investments need to be made to procure
tools and small equipment and to train local managers and staff in employment
analysis, training program design and financing. Assistance is also required
to develop mechanisms to transfer management and financing of the programs to
the communities or local NGOs, where appropriate.
2.22      The quality of basic technical training at NMYC's Regional and
Provincial Manpower Training Centers (RMTCs and PMTCs) needs to be improved:
trainers require more frequent training; curricula and instructional materials
should be made more relevant; and the safety practices and organization of the
workshops need to be strengthened. On the other hand, the quality of NMYC's
industrial training programs for the leather, construction, garment and metal
working industries is good; the programs are designed by industry boards and
are partly financed by industry.
2.23      One of the key weaknesses of NMYC is the quality of its management
particularly as NMYC has begun to devolve its training responsibilities to
local governments, communities, NGOs, industrial associations, and.firms, with
the intention of making training more responsive to the needs of industries.
It therefore requires assistance in strengthening its management to implement
the devolution program and to develop and implement a system to control and
monitor standards. This assistance would be provided under the project.
2.24      Formal Training (DECS).  The quality of DECS and private pre-
employment training in vocational high schools, SATs, TEIs, and colleges is
uneven. Information on the performance of these institutions and on the
absorption of their graduates is scarce, but there is a general perception
that the quality is poor. Demand for the vocational high school program is,
in fact, low (para. 2.18), which reflects a range of problems, including
unclear objectives, weak links with employment, low relevance, inadequately
prepared teachers, small workshops with old tools and equipment, and a short-
age of books and materials. Quality problems in the SATs and most TEIs are
similar to those of the high schools, since the majority of these schools are
on the same campus and share the same teachers and facilities.  A particular
issue related to the SATs is that the one- and two-year duration of the
programs raises the aspiration of the students for supervisory jobs.  However,
the low quality of the laboratory and workshop training, which tends to be
theoretical rather than practical due to a lack of tools and equipment, does
not equip students for middle-level technical jobs.
2.25      An exception to the prevalent low quality is the training provided
by 21 TEIs which were upgraded in terms of teachers, curricula and facilities
under a project assisted by the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The Australian
Government through the Philippine-Australian Technical and Vocational



- 12 -
Education Project is also helping to upgrade eight other TEIs and to
strengthen BTVE's management capacity. Demand for technicians from the TEIs
is now increasing, and employers are providing inputs into the curricula.
2.26      Management and Monitoring.  The poor quality of some vocational
training results from a variety of factors, including poor management and
monitoring of training. DECS has delegated much of the responsibility for
managing institutions under its supervision to its Regional Offices. However,
BTVE, which is responsible for monitoring vocational and technical education,
lacks the capacity to analyze information it receives from the regions,
besides lacking authority to manage or monitor the large number of private
(proprietary) technical education institutes or the autonomous private and
public colleges. In general, this management system is ineffective in
controlling and maintaining standards of quality, expenditures, institutional
performance or outputs, and there is evidence of serious quality and
efficiency problems. The problems responsible for the poor quality and
management of formal technical and vocational education and training are
complex and linked to inadequacies in policies and financing. Addressing
these issues effectively will require, first, establishment of a system to
collect and analyze performance and financial information and, second, a study
of the various institutions. The required study would be included in the
project.
Demand for Training
2.27      According to surveys conducted by NMYC, demand for NMYC's basic
six-month trades training programs, provided at its 14 Regional and 13
Provincial Manpower Training Centers (RMTCs and PMTCs), is about five times
the number of places available. This is partly due to the low cost and high
employment opportunities of these programs. Distribution of the training
centers in the country is uneven, however, and poses a particular problem when
industrial development in the unserved area is under way. Recent surveys by
NMYC indicate that seven new PMTCs are needed now in northern Luzon, Visayas
and Mindanao, where insufficient training centers exist and demand for trained
workers is high as a result of investments in industrial estates and free
trade zones. At this time, the Government is not able to finance the
construction of these centers and it is instead looking for ways to encourage
the establishment of private training centers in these areas and to increase
training by employers. Expanding private sector provision of training is in
line with recent policies and will be supported in the project through
incentive schemes and advisory services by NMYC. The demand for intermediate-
level training is increasing, particularly in the woodworking, food processing
and engineering industries, which are trying to compete with neighboring
countries for a share of the export markets. The higher quality and new
products required for exports require more highly skilled workers. NMYC is
responding to this need with plans to upgrade the instructors, curricula and
facilities of the RMTCs and PMTCs in a number of trade areas. The upgrading
program calls for extensive staff training through technical assistance which
would be financed under the project.
2.28      Demand for NMYC's nonformal livelihood and entrepreneurship
training is also strong, particularly from women, OSY and the unemployed in
rural areas. NMYC has established Community Training Units (CTUs) in each



- 13 -
province. The CTUs are mobile and move between locations where training needs
have been identified on the basis of employment surveys by NMYC's Regional
Manpower Offices and the local government units (LGUs). The LGUs provide
accommodations, NMYC provides tools and the curricula, and a local NGO, the
trainers. In view of the high demand, the project will provide support to
strengthen the capability of LGU's to deliver such programs.
2.29      In contrast, demand for formal pre-employment training in vocation-
al high schools and SATs is static and even declining in many parts of the
country where denqnd for skilled workers is decreasing with the decline in
industrial employment. Students will not invest two or more years to training
when employment prospects are uncertain, and employers tend to prefer either
trainees from shorter, more practical, hands-on programs or students with
general high school or college diplomas. Although information is incomplete,
there is evidence of under-enrollment in vocational high schools and SATs,
both public and private, which further lowers the efficiency of these institu-
tions. The study of formal technical and vocational education mentioned above
(para. 2.26) would also determine if consolidation of the institutions would
improve quality and economies of scale and link them more closely with the
local labor markets. The curricula and workshop classes of these institutions
clearly need to be restructured to bring them in line with skill demands
emerging in the economy. The effectiveness of such a restructuring is
demonstrated by the strong demand for technician education offered by those
TEIs which have restructured their curricula.
E. Costs and Financing
2.30      About 5.5 percent of the Government's allocation for education and
training is spent on formal and nonformal technical and vocational education
and training. This includes the allocations for DECS institutions for
vocational and technical education and budget allocations for NMYC. The
allocation covers about 85 percent of DECS and NMYC expenditures for training
and support operations and is high in relation to the number of students
benefitting from these programs. Unit costs, particularly of the DECS
programs, vary considerably. They range as follows: for DECS's SATs and TEIs,
from P 4,100 to P 12,500; for private technical institutes, from P 5,600 to
P 7,900; and for NMYC's nonformal livelihood programs and basic technical
training, P 800 and P 2,200, respectively. Unit costs of nonformal programs
are relatively low because trainees bring their own training materials, local
Governments provide the training sites and NGO's the teachers. The large
variations in unit costs are due not only to the high capital costs of
equipment in some schools such as fishery and agro-industry compared to
industrial trades schools, but also to the uneconomic size of the DECS
vocational schools, many of which have enrollments of less than 400 studepts
and offer five or more specializations. As a result, class sizes are small
and utilization rates of expensive workshops are low.
2.31      Many institutions spend little on maintenance, materials and books,
which lowers unit costs but also quality and enrollments. The institutions
have not been able to repair or replace outdated equipment; they lack spare
parts and consumable materials and have insufficient manuals and instructional
materials to support the training. In addition, inadequate accounting



- 14 -
practices and poor expenditure controls make it difficult to determine how
allocations can be improved in order to address priority maintenance and
repair problems and generally improve workshop classes, which are currently
unattractive and of poor quality.
2.32      Formal and nonformal training institutions charge only nominal fees
and depend on the Government for financing. The constraint on public funds
and the fact that many institutions need to improve their facilities and
programs would suggest the need to charge higher fees and begin to recover
costs from trainees as is done in privately-owned schools, which cover most of
their costs through fees. NMYC in particular has scope for greater cost
recovery and cost sharing with the firms, communities and trainees it serves.
At present, NMYC's enterprise-based training programs are financed about 50
percent by firms and about 50 percent under a Training Contract Scheme (TCS).
The share of costs borne by firms could be increased, particularly when firms
have benefitted from the TCS more than once. NMYC's basic skills (pre-employ-
ment) training at the RMTCs and PMTCs is free, but a significant proportion of
the trainees would be able to make small contributions to the cost of the
program. Similarly, several communities are regular users of the livelihood
and entrepreneurship training programs of NMYC's Community Training Center
(CTC) program. It might be possible for the communities or the trainees
themselves to eventually finance most or all of the cost of this training.
Although industry currently shares some training costs, measures to increase
fees gradually and share more of the training costs with employers and
communities will be introduced under the project.
F. Strategv for Develonment of Vocational Training and Technical Education
Government Strategy and Programs
2.33      Transferring part of the financing and responsibility for training
to the private sector, improving training quality, expanding short training
programs with high demand and gradually consolidating publicly financed formal
training programs with a declining demand, are the main elements of the
Government's newly adopted policy formulated during project preparation.
NKYC's strategy to implement the Government's policy include the gradual
transfer of responsibility for livelihood and basic technical training
programs to the communities and Local Government Units in line with the Local
Government Code of 1991. NMYC is also transferring training programs to
industry boards or industry associations and it assists firms to develop an
in-house capacity for training. Only the first steps of this program have
been taken and much remains to be done to transfer training to the private
sector.
2.34      DECS has taken several initiatives to improve the quality of SATs
and TEIs and rationalize the programs of these institutions and the vocational
high schools. In coordination with DECS Regional Offices, quality and
performance standards have been developed for each type of institution and a
program of assessing DECS controlled schools against these standards has
begun. Institutions that fail to meet the standards will be notified that
public financial support will be discontinued unless quality is improved and
standards met by a specific date. It is expected that this program will lead



- 15 -
to a rationalization and consolidation of technical institutes as well as
improving the quality of technical education. DECS is also attempting to
strengthen its collaboration with the large number of proprietary schools in
order to improve the quality of these schools and promote the establishment or
expansion of private schools in critical and strategic skill areas. Both
these programs are only in the initial phases and progress is slow due to the
lack of data and analysis of the performance of technical institutions,
particularly the private ones.
Bank's Experience in the Sector
2.35      Since 1965, the Bank has provided financing of US$517 million for
ten education projects in the Philippines, including four projects for general
education and six for technical education, agricultural education and
industrial skills training. The thrust of the four general education projects
was to provide assistance for the development of basic knowledge and skills as
part of a strategy for the comprehensive development of elementary education
in the country. The Second Education Project (Credit 349-PH, 1972) included
the first ten RMTCs which were later transferred from DECS to NMYC. The
thrust of the six technical, agricultural and industrial education projects
was to develop the much needed skills in these critical sector of the economy.
The Bank's strategy is to address strategic issues at the basic, middle and
higher level of human resources development. With the recent Second
Elementary Education project (Ln. 3244-PH) and the Second Vocational Training
project, the Bank would continued its support for basic education and training
in order to address poverty alleviation and raise the general level of
productivity of the labor force. Through the recent Engineering and Science
Education project, (Ln. 3435-PH) the Bank will be supporting higher technical
education to improve the quality of scientists jnd engineers for national
industrial development.
2.36      Except for the two most recent projects, all have been completed.
Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) have been prepared for the first six
projects (SecM75-560, SecM82-898, SecM84-283, SecM86-781, SecM86-885, SecH90-
850) and a Project Completion Report was recently prepared for the seventh
project aimed at improving elementary education. The main issues identified
by these reports were delays in implementation and disbursement due to
protracted procurement processes and complex budget release and payment
procedures. These problems are being addressed as general countrywide issues
by the Government and the Bank. In addition, the PPARs point out the critical
importance of preparing for procurement of project inputs prior to implementa-
tion and the need to avoid, or minimize the impact of, changes in the project
management structure and key personnel during implementation.
2.37      Lessons learned under the First Vocational Training Project (Ln.
2200-PH), which was completed in April 1991 have been taken into account in
the design of the follow-up project now proposed. The earlier operation
sought to strengthen the national industrial training system by restructuring
NMYC, staff development in manpower planning and technical training,
establishing a system for contracting training in seven priority industrial
and service sectors, strengthening industrial training through the
construction of five new training centers and equipping of nine existing
centers, and expanding trade testing and certification. During the early



- 16 -
implementation phase, NMYC encountered a variety of problems, which resulted
in very low disbursement during the first three project years. Construction
of project civil works was slow due to difficulties in acquiring suitable
sites, selecting qualified contractors and providing adequate supervision.
Procurement became an issue, as it did in most other projects implemented in
the Philippines during the 1980s because of lack of Government counterpart
funding. The plan for organizational improvement and staff training was
revised as a result of the new focus on training rather than policy and
planning (para. 2.5).  Departments with line responsibilities for training
were expanded and 14 Regional Manpower Development Offices were established to
manage training in the regions. Furthermore, changes in the economy and
employment led to major changes in the scope of the project.
2.38      After the EDSA revolution in 1986 which impacted on NMYC and the
project -- staff redeployment out of NMYC, particularly economists, managers,
two Director-Generals and movement of Directors -- the project was
restructured in line with the new government priorities, end US$8.0 million of
the loan amount was canceled to reflect the ;;caled-down project. However, by
the time of loan closing in April 1991, most of the project's training
objectives had been met. The NMYC was restructured but because of the efforts
to respond to the need for livelihood and self-employment training, almost all
staff resources were devoted to the training function. The sensitivity of the
Bank to politico-economic changes assisted the reorganization of the project
to fulfillment following the changes in Government priorities after the 1986
EDSA revolution. Finally, lessons learned involving procurement delays are
being specifically addressed in the project's design.  Bank staff are working
with NMYC to improve procurement procedures and NMYC has already prepared
draft bidding documents.
2.39      Implementation of the project is expected to proceed more rapidly
than the earlier project since civil works and procurement programs are much
smaller than in the previous project and could be completed in about two years
since no new construction is involved. The Bank is also working with the
Government to improve procurement procedures, and several important changes
already implemented should keep project procurement on schedule. A monitoring
system will be established to produce semi-annual progress reports on project
implementation. In addition, NMYC has prepared civil works rehabilitation and
procurement plans. Finally, IDA's supervision plans include provisions for
monitoring the technical assistance component related to the institutional
development aspects of the project. Also, expertise is being provided under
the project for the day-to-day implementation of these items.
Rationale for IDA Involvement in the Project
2.40      The NMYC is a unique institution with a mandate for the national
development of both manpower planning to determine manpower needs and for
matching these with training programs. It also has major functions in
introducing cost-effective innovations through research and development and
the monitoring and evaluation of key, innovative training programs. Under the
First Vocational Training Project a key objective was to build-up NMYC's
capability to execute its mandate. However, line training activities of its
own together with political uncertainties and economic problems mitigated
against the full realization of this particular project objective. The



- 17 -
project is therefore noteworthy for what it does not contain as much as for
what it does. The project does not focus on expansion of training in the
public sector but rather emphasizes the build-up of NMYC's institutional
capability to manage the sector and to shift training to industry through the
highly successful Training Contract Scheme begun under the First Vocational
Training Project and to enhance cost recovery and cost sharing with the
private sector and to rehabilitate existing facilities in order to maximize
the efficiency of the existing system.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation
3.1       The Government's Medium-Term Investment Plan emphasizes the need
for employment generation and further investment in the country's training
effort. In support of the latter objective and in preparation for the
project, NMYC in 1990 prepared a long-term priority investment plan for
development of policies. infrastructure, and programs for nonformal vocational
training. The plan proposed an investment of US$150 million to expand and
improve the exiLting system, expand the role of the private sector, and
establish sector-specific and advanced technology training centers. A portion
of that long-term investment plan would be supported under the project, the
scope of which was determined by the country's current budgetary constraints
and the need to establish a sound policy environment to support further
expansion of vocational training programs and to assist with the full
realization of the policy and planning objective of the First Vocational
Training Project.
B. Project Objectives
3.2       The project would support the Government's efforts in the medium
term to improve employment and training policies, strengthen employment
services, expand nonformal rural basic training and increase private sector
involvement in training and cost recovery, and, in the longer term, develop
strategies for improving the internal and external efficiency of the sub-
sector. The project's specific objectives are to: (a) strengthen institu-
tional capabilities of NMYC in policy formulation, planning, management,
research and evaluation of nonformal vocational training and employment
services; (b) improve training quality and cost recovery; (c) upgrade training
facilities; and (d) improve formal technical education through two studies,
including an identification of investment needs.
C. Project DescriRtion
3.3       Under the project, the following components would be carried out
over a five-year period:
(a) Institutional Development (USS12.1 million eguivalent including
contingencies): (i) strengthening of NMYC through assisting the
implementation of the restructuring of its Secretariat by



* 18 -
management training for selected central and regional staff;
(ii) training of NMYC and other Government staff in training
policy, planning and coordination; and (iii) development of a
National Manpower Information System to facilitate the
decentralization of management and strengthen employment services;
(b)  ImRrovement of Training Quality and Cost Recovery (USS8.8 million
equivalent including contingencies): (i) improvement of the
National Skills Certification Program and promotion of similar
programs in individual industries; (ii) development of a program to
train trainers; (iii) improvement of curricula and training
materials; (iv) strengthening of guidance and employment services;
(v) development of monitoring and evaluation systems to allow NMYC
to monitor the technical, management and financial performance of
training institutions; and (v) development of mechanisms to
increase cost sharing with industry, communities and trainees;
(c)  Training CaRacity Development tUSS20.3 million equivalent including
contineencies): (i) upgrading of 14 Regional Manpower and Training
Centers, 13 Provincial Manpower and Training Centers and the
National Training Skills Center; and (ii) expansion of Enterprise-
Based training by private sector firms, support for existing and
new I'raining programs, improvement of apprenticeship training, and
support for a rurAl skills and livelihood training program; and
(d) Studies (USSO.6 million eguivalent including contingencies): (i) a
study of the formal technical and vocational education sector to
improve the data base and develop an investment strategy to
rationalize formal technical and vocational education and (ii) a
feasibility study of the needs for the establishment of sector
specific training centers and advanced technology training centers.
Institutional Development
3.4       Organizational Strengthening.  The project would provide technical
assistance to strengthen the functions of the restructured NMYC Secretariat.
The NMYC has separated the Council support function from the training support
function. NMYC's Regional Manpower Development Offices (RMDOs) have also been
restructured into local policy and planning units and training units. In
addition, a special unit has been established in both the central office at
Taguig and in the RMDOs to promote private sector training through regional
management of the Training Assistance Contract (TAC) and Training Contract
Schemes (TCS) for local firms (see para. 3.15).  This unit also liaises with
private sector schools, local NGOs, and local governments and develops
mechanisms for the transfer of management and financial responsibilities of
training programs to these organizations. Measures aimed at privatization,
devolution and decentralization are discussed in Annex 5.
3.5       To equip staff for their functions, the project would finance the
training of approximately 299 central and regional NMYC staff according to a
detailed staff development plan agreed with IDA. The plan would cover the
following areas: (a) organization, management, and financial analysis;
(b) employment services including local employment surveys, vocational



- 19 -
counseling, placement and guidance; and (c) training support functions
comprising training program management and the financing, management and
promotion of trade standards and certification, instructor training and career
development, training need surveys, curriculum and material development, and
testing and evaluation.
3.6       Development of a National Manpower Information System (NMIS).
Under the project, a computer-based NMIS network would be procured and
installed at NMYC's central and regional offices to expand and com-uterize the
on-going collection and analysis of labor market information. The project
would also support the training of policy analysts in labor market information
systems and of computer programmers and data processors in computer operations
and data management.
3.7       Strengthening of ManDower Policy. Planning and Coordination.  The
project would provide assistance to train economists, policy analysts,
statisticians and planning staff of NMYC and similar staff responsible for
employment and training policy, at DOLE and other Government departments
including DECS, DTI, the Department of Agriculture, and NEDA according to a
detailed plan agreed with IDA. This training would total about 72 foreign
fellowships and about 350 local training places. The training would help
those staff members who are responsible for policy analysis and planning to
upgrade their knowledge and skills in the following areas: (a) policy analysis
and coordination; (b) manpower planning and training needs analysis; (c)
management and allocation of training resources; (d) private sector training
and incentives; (e) cost effectiveness analysis; and (f) cost and impact
evaluation.
Improvement of Training Ouality
3.8       Improvement of the National Skills Certification Program.  The
project would provide support and technical assistance to expand and improve
implementation of the National Skill Certification Program by: (a) priori-
tizing and consolidating existing trade standards; (b) training management
staff, technical staff and additional testing officers; (c) establishing a
central test item bank; and (d) procuring additional equipment for RMTCs which
are used as testing centers and leasing testing facilities and equipment, if
necessary. Support would also be provided to RMTCs and RMDOs to cover the
cost of publicity and promotion of standards among employers and the cost of
the provision of advisory and accreditation services and incentives to
industries willing to establish and operate their own skills certification
programs.
3.9       Strengthening the Trainer Development Program.  Local technical
assistance would be provided under the project to: (a) help develop a plan for
analyzing demand for trainers for center-based and firm-based training;
(b) propose a licensing and qualification system; and (c) suggest arrangements
for private sector financing of trainer training. The project would also
provide for upgrading the skills of instructors.
3.10      Improvement of Curricula and Training Materials.  The project would
support the purchase and adaptation of sample curricula and supporting
training materials. The emphasis would be on the adaptation or updating of



20 -
existing programs and materials in consultation with employers. An incentive
scheme would be established to encourage development or adaptation of
curriculum packages which deal with the environmental, science and
technological aspects of skills training and that use media to enhance the
effectiveness and attractiveness of the training. The commercialization of
curriculum packages would be encouraged, and printing and distribution would
be done as much as possible through commercial printing and publishing firms.
3.11      Strengthening of Guidance and Employment Services.  Technical
assistance would be provided to improve local labor market surveys, establish
local employment information systems, and improve the vocational guidance and
placement services of the RMTCs, PMTCs, and RMDOs. The provision of employ-
ment services at the local level would be integrated with development of the
Manpower Information System under the project (para. 3.6) and the training of
central and regional staff in employment analysis and data management (para.
3.7).
3.12      Monitoring and Evaluation of Training Performance.  To improve the
quality and efficiency of training, the project would provide NMYC with
technical assistance for development of provincial, regional and central
systems to monitor and evaluate training centers for infrastructure and
equipment maintenance, curriculum implementation, and performance of
instructors, administrators, and trainees. The system would provide for
regular analysis of training costs, assess variations in unit costs, and
support budget preparation and financial control systems. The project would
also support the development of computer-based performance and financial data
bases, including assistance with programming and data analysis.
3.13      Improvement of Cost Recovery.  Support would be made available
under the project to: (a) provide technical assistance to improve financial
analysis and accountability of training programs at the provincial, regional
and national levels; (b) conduct sample surveys and studies to determine the
ability of trainees, firms and communities to pay for training; and (c)
develop mechanisms to increase cost sharing and cost recovery. Special
attention would be given to improve cost recovery under the TCS, which
finances part of the cost of employee training by small firms. These firms
should be willing to pay for all or most of the cost of the TCS. Similarly,
the ability and willingness of communities and local governments to pay for
livelihood training would also be reviewed. Estimates of anticipated cost
recovery under the project are provided in Annex 6.
Training CaRacity DeveloRment
3.14      Upgrading of Existing Facilities.  The 14 existing RMTCs, 13 PMTCs
and the OMSD would be upgraded and provided with additional and replacement
equipment in order to accommodate middle-level and apprenticeship training
programs. The locations of the RMTCs and PMTCs are shown in Map IBRD 23477R.
Each of the 28 centers would be provided with an additional multi-trade
workshop, and the 17 oldest centers would be rehabilitated to ensure their
full use and to prolong their useful life. All centers would be provided with
adequate quantities of quality learning materials, books and consumables. To
improve safety standards, which are currently not satisfactory, special
protective equipment would be procured and made available in each center. To



- 21 -
improve efficiency, particularly in class scheduling, computer equipment,
special software, and specialist services would be provided. Facility
management and maintenance would also be improved with the help of technical
assistance to be provided under the project.
3.15      ExRansion of Enterprise-Based Training Programs.  To promote and
increase the role of private sector firms in training, the project would
provide funds and technical assistance for various training schemes. The
highly successful Training Contract Scheme (TCS) begun under the First
Vocational Training Project would be further supported. It focuses on
training of skilled workers for small-scale enterprises which do not have
training capacity. For medium- and large-scale enterprises, the project would
support the operation of the Training Assistance Contract (TAC) scheme. The
TAC provides enterprises with one-time assistance to develop a capacity for
on-the-job employee training through the training of trainers and consultation
and advice on the design and implementation of training programs. The project
would also support the ongoing Garment Industry Training Program and the
Enterprise-Based Training Program. The latter program will be extended to the
printing, electronics, wood working and food processing industries.
3.16      The project would also assist in annrenticeshiR training, following
up on a UNDP/ILO project which is assisting with the drafting of legislation
and design of model 2rograms and cost sharing schemes. Support would be
provided under the project for promotion of the new legislation and field
testing of the new schemes.
3.17      To meet the demand for livelihood, basic skills and entrepreneur-
ship training by women, OSY, and under- and un-employed adults, the project
would provide funds and technical assistance for a Training Delivery System
for the Rural Informal Sector (TDIS), a follow-up to the existing Community
Training Center and Entrepreneurship Development programs. The TDIS would
support local communities in identifying training needs, selecting trainers
and training venues, providing training materials and identifying employment
opportunities. It would also assist persons who want to become self-employed
by providing entrepreneurship training, help in preparing business plans and
obtaining financing. The project would support: (a) the procurement of tools,
equipment, materials and supplies as well as teaching and learning materials;
and (b) technical assistance including local training and local experts.
3.18      The training of women in new trades is a very important NMYC policy
and is currently being implemented under the on-going Women in New Trades
(WINT) project with assistance from the Government of the Netherlands.  The
broad goals of the WINT project are to: (a) create a broader and more
diversified range of occupations for women, and (b) increase women's access to
a broad range of occupations. Under the project funds would be made available
to conduct an impact evaluation of the WINT program and to fully integrate the
WINT project as a regular part of the TDIS operational program.



22 -
Studies
3.19      There are two studies under the project to be conducted by the
Council of NMYC. The first is a study of formal technical and vocational
education programs at the secondary, post-secondary, technician and technical
teacher education levels in the private and public sectors. The purpose of
the study would be to determine what could be done to improve the relevance
and effectiveness of the formal vocational education and training system. The
study would include a data collection and sample surveys to update and improve
the inadequate data base. It would also include a review of the role of
private training centers and formulate or propose regulations to promote and
improve private centers. A strategy and investment plan would be prepared for
the rationalization and improvement of formal technical and vocational
education as well as a proposal for the conversion of suitable SATs into TEIs,
the rehabilitation of SATs and upgrading of TEIs that meet a local demand for
training. The second study is a feasibility study for the establishment of
sector specific and advanced technology training centers will also be
conducted under the project.
IV.   PROJECT COST. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
4.1       The project is estimated to have a total cost of about Pesos
1,170.0 million (US$41.8 million equivalent), including foreign exchange costs
of about US$15.0 million (36 percent of total costs) and taxes and duties
estimated at about US$1.8 million (equivalent to 10 percent of the value of
goods procured locally and 10 percent of imported goods). Base costs are
estimated at May 1991 prices and were based on the following assumptions:
civil works at US$245 per square meter; equipment on recent NMYC experience
for similar imported or locally available items; local training at US$1,000
per month and foreign fellowships at US$8,000 per man-month. A total of 140
months of foreign assistance and 477 staff-months of local assistance would be
provided. A total of 322 months of foreign fellowships and 6,755 months of
local training would be provided. Foreign exchange requirements were
estimated on the following basis: 20 percent for civil works; 85 percent for
equipment; 90 percent for international expert services; 100 percent for
international fellowships; 75 percent for books and resource materials.
4.2       Physical contingencies of 10 percent were allowed for civil works,
professional services, consultants, fellowships, furniture, equipment, books
and consumables. Physical contingencies total US$1.6 million or 5 percent of
base costs. Price contingencies of US$7.1 million, equivalent to 22 percent
of base costs, were estimated on the basis of the following inflation factors:
for foreign costs, 3.9 percent per year during 1992-97; for local costs, 10
percent during 1992-97. A summary of costs by project component is given in
Table 4.1 and by category of expenditures in Table 4.2. Cost breakdowns by
component, category of expenditure and project year are provided in Annex 7.



- 23 -
Table 4.1: S%WRY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CtJWONENTS
Peso Millilon               USS Million
X         %
Component                      Local     Forelgi    Total    Locr.    Forelgn    Total    Foreign    Base
A. INSTITUTONAL DEVELOPIENT
1. Strength inst. Capability  38.5        19.6     58.1      1.4      0.7       2.1      34          6
2. mrPow  PoI.PIg & Coord.    79.3        58.5    137.8      2.8       2.1      4.9      42         15
3. Mrower hnfomtion System    24.3        31.7      56.0     0.9       1.1      2.0      57          6
4. ProJect Mnagement           14.8        0.0      14.8     0.5       0.0      0.5       0          2
SLbtotal                 156.9      109.8    266.7       5.6      3.9      9.5      41         29
B. IWROVE TRAINING QUALITY
1. Not Skill Cert & Prom PR   38.2        16.4      54.6     1.4       0.8      2.0      30          6
2. Curric. & Trg Met Dev.     32.4        13.8      46.2     1.2       0.5      1.7      30          5
3. Traior Developent Program    66.0       3.1      69.1     2.4       0.1      2.5       5          8
4. Employent Services Program    16.5      2.9      19.4     0.6       0.1      0.7      15          2
5. Center Tee S M Fhin badit    2.7        0.3       3.0     0.1       0.0      0.1      11          0
Wbtotal                  155.8       36.5    192.3       5.7      1.3       7.0      19         21
C. TRAINING CAPACITY 0EVLOWENT
1.  grade Existing Facilities  82.8      153.1    235.9      2.9       5.5      8.4      65         26
2. Training Contract Sdem     26.1         0.2      26.3     0.9       0.0      0.9       1          3
3. Training Assistant Contract    80.7     1.8      82.5     2.8       0.1      2.9       2          9
4. Trng.Dev. S&a. Inf. Sect.  57.4        47.9    105.3      2.1       1.7      3.8      46         11
Subtotal                 247.0      203.0    450.0       8.7      7.3      16.0      45         49
D.STLDIES                        10.4        5.7      16.1      0.4      0.2       0.6      38          2
Total BASELINE COSTS            570.1      355.0    925.1    20.4       12.7      33.1      38        100
Physial Contiwgncles           18.4       27.1      45.5     0.6       1.0      1.6      59          5
Price Contingcles             161.4       37.8    199.2      5.8       1.3      7.1       19        22
Total PROJECT COSTS /a          749.9      419 9   1.169.8       ;      15.0      Jt8       a         127
/a inckkes US$1.8 mililon in Identiflable taxes.



- 24 -
Table 4.2: SUMIARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Peso Mlillon                 US$ Million
Category of                                                                                    X          X
Expenditure                     Local     Foreign    Total     Local   Forelgn     Total    Forelgn      Base
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                  44.7        11.2      55.9      1.6       0.4       2.0      20           6
B. Furniture                     4.3         0.0       4.3      0.2       0.0       0.2       0           1
C. Professional Services         2.8         0.0       2.8      0.1       0.0      0.1        0           0
D. Tectlcal Assistance
1. Foreign Fellowship         0.0        72.1      72.1      0.0       2.6       2.6     100           8
2. Local Training           189.2         0.0      189.2     6.7       0.0       6.7       0          20
3. International Experts      4.7        42.3      47.0      0.2       1.5       1.7      90           5
4. Local Experts             39.9         0.0      39.9      1.4       0.0       1.4       0           4
Sub)total                 233.8       114.4     348.2      8.3       4.1      12.4      33          38
E. Equipment                    38.6       218.7     257.3      1.4       7.8       9.2      85         28
F. Books & Resource Material     3.6        10.7      14.3      0.1       0.4       0.5      75           2
G. Consunable Materials         41.1         0.0      41.1      1.5       0.0       1.5       0           4
H. Enterprise-Based Training   125.2         0.0     125.2      4.5       0.0       4.5       0          14
Total INVESTMENT COSTS     494.1       355.0     849.1     17.7      12.7     30.4       42         92
11. RECIRRENT COSTS
A. Operatlon and Maintenance    62.9         0.0      62.9      2.2       0.0       2.2       0.0        7
B. Staff SalarIs                13.1         0.0      13.1      0.5       0.0       0.5       0.0         1
Total RECURRENT COSTS       76.0         0.0      76.0      2.7      0.0       2.7        0.0        8
Total BASELINE COSTS       570.1       355.0     925.1    20.4       12.7     33.1       38         100
Physical ContingencIes       18.4        27.1      45.5      0.6       1.0       1.6      59           5
Price Contingencies         161.4        37.8      199.2     5.8       1.3       7.1       19         22
Total PROJECT COSTS        749.9       419.9   1,169.8    26.8       15.0     41.8       36        127
B. Financing
4.3           The Credit  of SDR 26.4 million  (US$36.0 million  equivalent)  would
finance about 90 percent of the total project cost, net of taxes. The
Government of the Philippines would provide f.nancing of US$5.8 million
equivalent. Project financing arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3.



- 25 -
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
GOP            IDA              Total
Category of Expenditure          Amount    %      Amount    %    Amount
Investment Costs:
A. Civil Works                    0.5      20       2.0     80    2.5        6
B. Furniture                     /a        10       0.2     90    0.2        1
C. Professional Services         /a         -       0.1    100    0.1        0 /b
D. Technical Assistance:
1. Foreign Fellowships         -         -       2.9    100    2.9        7
2. Local Training              -         -       9.2    100    9.2       22
3. International Experts       -         -       1.9    100    1.9        5
4. Local Experts               -                 1.8    100    1.8        4
E. Equipment                      1.4      12       9.8     88   11.2       27
F. Books and Consumables          0.4      10       2.2     90    2.6        6
G. Enterprise-Based Training           -            5.9    100    5.9       14
Recurrent Costs
A. Operation & Maintenance        2.9    100        -         -    2.9       7
B. Staff Salaries                 0.6    100                       0.6       1
Total                       5.8              36.0          41.8
/a Value less than 0.05.
A Value less than 0.5.
4.4       The project will generate additional recurrent expenditures for
salaries and operations and maintenance resulting from the upgrading of
existing RMTCs, PMTCs and the National Skills Training Center and expansion of
existing training programs. Total additional recurrent expenditures are
projected at US$3.5 million over the five-year project period. This would
represent an average annual increase of about 1.6 percent of NMYC's current
budget and is considered small, representing about one eighth of the average
annual increase in NMYC's budget allocation, which has been growing at an
annual average of 18 percent during 1987-91. There is, however, a serious
constraint on counterpart funds in 1992. Although this constraint is expected
to ease after 1992 due to projected increases in revenue and GDP growth, the
project has been designed to allow for a gradual increase in recurrent
expenditures. If the 1991 budget allocation is taken as the basis, the budget
increase would be 0.3 percent in the first year, rising to 0.6 percent in the
second year to remain at less than one percent for the remaining project



- 26 -
years. In addition, NMYC is instituting measures, including a gradual
reduction in its staff size, to lower its budgetary requirements and free up
funds from budget allocations to finance new recurrent expenditures required
by the project. NMYC also plans to recover an increasingly larger share of
the cost of its training programs from the ^ommunities, firms and trainees
benefitting from the programs.
4.5       To further ensure its ability co finance the project, NMYC has
prepared a five year financial plan (Annex 6) showing estimated costs and
sources of financing for the proiect and for its on-going operations. The
plan shows NMYC's requirement for government budgetary allocations for
counterpart funds for implementation of the project and for the salaries,
operations and maintenance requirements of all other NMYC programs and
operations. The financial plan also provides estimates of projected cost
recovery anticipated to result from charging training fees for industry-based
training programs, fees for trade testing and certification operations and
from sales of training manuals and materials developed under the project. It
is estimated that cost recovery will increase from about 0.5 percent of total
recurrent costs during the first year of the project to a sustainable figure
of about 26 percent of recurrent costs during the final year of the project.
C. Project Management and ImRlementation
4.6       The project would be implemented over a five-year period under the
overall supervision of NMYC. Day-to-day supervision of the project would be
handled by the Project Management Unit (PMU), which was established within
NMYC's Administrative Division to manage implementation of the Vocational
Training Project (Ln. 2200-PH) which has been completed successfully. Core
staff of the PMU would be retained under the project. The PMU is headed by a
Project Director and comprises sections for programs and monitoring, civil
works, procurement and finance. The responsibilities of the four key PMU
staff (an architect, education officer, procurement officer and accountant)
are well defined, and the experience of these key staff should help to keep
implementation on schedule. Responsibilities for supervising and inspecting
construction and equipment installation would be delegated to staff in the
Regional Manpower Offices, as was done successfully in the previous project.
To improve the capacity of PMU and other NMYC staff to implement the project,
seminars in procurement, financial management and disbursement would be
provided at project start-up. PMU staff would also receive additional
training as well as 18 staff-months of technical assistance related to
management of the technical assistance component as well as project civil
works and procurement.
4.7       To strengthen NMYC's capability and capacity in management and
administration, technical services and training delivery systems, the
technical assistance (TA) component of the project includes provisions for 140
months of international and 477 months of local consultancy services. Also
included in this component are a total of 322 months of foreign fellowships
(for 144 fellows) and a total 6,755 months of local training for 775 fellows
(Annex 8). In addition, the TA component includes provisions under the
Training Contract Scheme (TAC) and the Training Assistance Contract (TAC)
program to develop industry's capacity for the training of about 150,000 of



- 27 -
its own workers during the implementation period of the project. Given the
importance and scope of the project's technical assistance component, a nine
person NMYC team would be assigned on a full-time basis to plan and monitor
the project implementation and would work closely with NMYC's Human Resource
Development staff.  A summary of the TA component, which includes an
implementation schedule and draft terms of reference for both international
and local consultants is included as Annex 8.
4.8       The following safeguards have been taken to ensure timely
implementation of technical assistance, civil works and procurement: plans and
schedules for project civil works rehabilitation and equipment procurement
were agreed at negotiations; the PMU would be required to provide the Bank
with semi-annual reports of the status of implementation (para 2.39); and the
project would provide a supervisor at each training center site who would be
responsible to keep the work on schedule, maintain quality standards and
monitor and report on progress. In addition, to enable the project architect
to make frequent visits to the construction sites, funds would be provided to
cover the transport and .ubsistence costs related to the supervision of
project works.
4.9       The Council of NMYC, through its Secretariat, will establish a task
force to manage the two studies to be conducted under the project. Plans and
timetables for the studies and draft Terms of Reference for the local and
international consultants, who will assist the task force, have been prepared
and agreed with IDA. A project implementation chart is provided in Annex 9.
Status of Project PreRaration
4.10      Detailed plans for the upgrading and rehabilitation of the existing
RMTCs and PMTCs will be prepared in late 1992 as rehabilitation and construc-
tion work is not scheduled to commence until at least mid-1993. Draft bidding
documents for civil works and equipment procurement and training and technical
assistance plans have been prepared. Basic equipment lists and the equipment
procurement plan have been prepared and are satisfactory.
D. Procurement
4.11      Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 4.4.  Civil works
contracts for the upgrading of the 28 existing centers are estimated to cost
from US$43,000 to US$110,000 each and would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Equipment
packages costing US$200,000 equivalent or more would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Equipment items in contracts valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent and
aggregating up to US$900,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of LCB
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local equipment manufacturers will be
extended a 15 percent preference margin, or the prevailing customs duties,
whichever is lower, on bid evaluation under ICB. Furniture, which is of a
basic design and readily available locally, would be procured on the basis of
LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Books would be procured either by
international or local shopping procedures involving the comparison of quotes
from at least three suppliers, or by direct contracting from the publisher or



- 28 -
sole authorized distributor. Minor and/or specialty items of equipment and
furniture, estimated to cost less than US$5,000 each and aggregating to less
than US$200,000 equivalent, would be purchased by international or local
shopping on the basis of quotations from a minimum of three suppliers.
Consulting and training services will be procured in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers".
Table 4.4: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method    /a             Total
Category of Expenditure          ICB        LCB        Other /  N.I.F.  Costs
Civil Works                                 2.5           -         -      2.5
-         (2.0)         -                (2.0)
Professional Services            -          -             0.1       -      0.1
(0.1)      -     (0.1)
Furniture                                   0.2           -         -      0.2
-         (0.2)         -          -     (0.2)
Technical Assistance             -          -            15.8       -     15.8
-          -          (15.8)       -    (15.8)
Equipment                       10.1        0.9           0.2       -     11.2
(8.9)      (0.7)        (0.2)       -     (9.8)
Books and Consumable                                      2.6       -      2.6
Materials                     -          -            (2.2)      -      (2.2)
Enterprise-Based Training        -          -             5.9              5.9
(5.9)      -     (5.9)
Operations and Maintenance       -          -             -         3.5    3.5
and Staff Salaries             -                                  -
Total                      10.1        3.6          24.6       3.5   41.8
(8.9)      (2.9)       (24.2)       -    (36.0)
,ij, All figures include contingencies; figures in parentheses are the
respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit; figures may not add up
due to rounding.
Lb   Includes international shopping, direct purchase and technical
assistance contracts.
N.I.F. Not IDA Financed.



- 29 -
4.12      Prior IDA review would be required for Terms of Reference and
Letters of Invitation for consultants' contracts and for civil works contracts
over US$75,000 and equipment contracts over US$100,000; this would include 85
percent of the value of the Bank-financed components. Selective post award
review of contracts below the threshold levels would be carried out on about
in 1 in 10 goods contracts. Standard documents will be used for procurement,
to facilitate Bank review.
E. Disbursement
4.13      The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against eligible
expenditures as follows:
(a)  Civil Work:  80 percent of total expenditures;
(b) EguiRment: 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of all items procured
directly from abroad; 100 percent of the ex-factory cost (net of
taxes) of locally manufactured items; and 75 percent of local
expenditures for other locally procured items;
(c) Furniture. Books and Consumables: 90 percent of total expend-
itures; and
(d) ExRert and Professional Services. Foreign Fellowships and Local and
Enterprise-Based Training: 100 percent of total expenditures.
4.14      Disbursement would be made against full documentation for
expenditures for professional services and experts as well as those related to
contracts, including consultants' contracts. For civil works contracts less
than US$100,000 equivalent each, and equipment contracts less than US$200,000
equivalent each, itemized Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) would be used.
Itemized SOEs would also be used for all expenditures covering fellowships,
local training or programs not undertaken by contract. Documentation in
support of these SOEs would be retained by the PMU and made available to Bank
supervision missions on request. To the extent possible, withdrawal
applications should be consolidated into amounts of US$50,000 equivalent or
more, prior to submission to the Bank.
4.15      Disbursement of the Credit is expected to be completed in five and
a half years, with Credit closing by December 31, 1997. An estimated schedule
of disbursement and a profile of disbursement under previous education
projects in the Asia Region are given in Annex 10. Disbursement of the Credit
is expected to be faster than the profile (by 30 months) due to measures being
taken to ensure a rapid project start-up (para. 4.8). These precautions, in
conjunction with the project monitoring system to be established, should
prevent disbursement delays.



- 30 -
F. Accounts. Audits Monitoring and ReRorting
4.16      The PMU would establish and maintain separate accounts for all
project expenditures. Accounts and documentation supporting SOEs would be
maintained in accordance with sound accounting practices. The executing
agency, NMYC, has several accounting officers who have managed the accounts of
the previous project, and their experience would be utilized in the project.
All project accounts, including SOEs, would be audited annually by the
Commission on Audit (COA), which is an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank. Since the audits would be performed by COA's resident staff in the
regions and provinces where the project will be implemented, the central COA
representative in NMYC's central office will consolidate audit reports from
all regional and provincial training centers and offices. Assurances were
provided at negotiations that, within nine months of the end of each
government fiscal year, IDA will be provided with a consolidated audit report
on project accounts of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursement against
certified SOEs.
4.17      The PMU would monitor the progress of project implementation.  The
establishment of a computer-based monitoring system would assist the PMU in
this task. Critical path analysis would be done to coordinate the timing of
the civil works, procurement, staff training and operational training
programs. The monitoring system would allow adjustment of target dates and
schedules for all major activities in case of delay in one or more of these
activities. The PMU would prepare progress reports of a standard format for
review by the Covernment and IDA each semester.
4.18      Project supervision would follow the plan shown in Annex 11.  The
Bank'" field supervision is expected to require at least two visits a year.
Supervision during the first two project years would be carried out by a
vocational/technical education specialist, an institutional development
specialist and an architect; thereafter, when the emphasis of the project
would be on improved financial management and cost recovery, it would be
necessary to include a financial specialist in the missions.
G. Environmental Impact
4.19      The project is expected to have a positive impact on the environ-
ment. The skilled workers trained under the project would be available for
employment in the Government's public works programs, some of which are aimed
at improving operation and maintenance of the country's water, sewerage and
road infrastructure in both urban and rural areas. Moreover, based on
previous experience, the training centers to be upgraded under the project
tend to become conduits for disseminating information on environmental issues;
automotive-related training, for example, already includes environmentally-
based measures for reduction of vehicle pollution and proper disposal of toxic
substances. Under the project, the coverage of environmental topics in the
training curricula would be expanded or new topics introduced, as appropriate.
The NMYC, in consultation with industry and relevant Government bodies, would
be responsible for reviewing the content of the curricula to ensure that



- 31 -
environmental issues are addressed properly and that environmental concerns
are included in instructor training programs.
H. Impact on Women
4.20      Project support to NMYC would directly affect the role of women in
the areas of policy, planning and program implementation because the NMYC
Council actively participates in the formulation and implementation of women-
focused policies and the Philippine Development Plan for Women (PDPW). Such
policies and plans could be further enhanced through developing the
capabilities of policy-makers and planning staff through the project. Women
would also benefit through project support for improvement of training quality
at NMYC. Over 40 percent of the 220,000 graduates of NMYC programs in 1991
were women. Women are also being encouraged to develop competencies in non-
traditional trades such as welding, automotive and machine-shop. In this
regard the project would pursue the efforts initiated in 1990 under the Women
in New Trades (WINT) Project. This project, supported by the Government of
the Netherlands, is aimed at (a) creating a broader and more diversified range
of occupations for women, and (b) increasing women's access to a broad range
of occupations in line with manpower requirements. Women would also benefit
from project support to the Garment Industry Training Program which, since its
inception in 1990, has prepared more than 1,300 women for employment in
industry or at home through subcontracting.
I. Proiect Sustainabilitv
4.21      Strong Government commitment to improvements in the vocational
training system achieved under the recently completed Vocational Training
Project (Ln. 2201'-PH) and the high priority given by the Government to the
preparation of the project indicate that they will be sustained in the future.
There is now a more widespread, deeper understanding of the issues in
developing skills training nationally and locally, and of the relationships
between public and private sector roles. There is also strong Government
commitment to NMYC and understanding of its role as the key policy making and
planning body for vocational training activities. Management and manpower
planning issues are still serious, but awareness has deepened and their
dimensions are better understood. Both have assured high profiles and will be
addressed in the project. Flexibility in training delivery and enhanced
relevancy of training and quality to meet labor market needs together with
cost-recovery and evaluation of training are now deeply imbedded in NMYC's
training activities.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1       The benefits of the project, though difficult to quantify, are
important. In particular, NMYC would acquire the capacity to provide policy
advice to the Government on the role and contribution of employment services
and vocational training in economic development, and prepare plans and



- 32 -
undertake research to improve the contribution of skills development to
economic growth. Other benefits would be as follows:
(a) The project would assist in the restructuring of the vocational and
technical education sector, intcrease efficiency and achieve a
better use of Government resources.
(b) The project would also assist in transferring the responsibilities
of training from the Government to the private sector since it
would help to develop training capabilities in industry and
increase the private financing of training costs.
(c) Project activities to improve the skills of the work force would
facilitate efforts of the industry and services sectors to move
into export-oriented and value-added manufacturing and services
requiring higher skill levels. The project would also provide an
opportunity for workers in the free trade zones to upgrade their
skills and thereby increase the attractiveness of the zones to
foreign investors and joint venture operations.
(d) Opportunities for wage or self-employment of women and other
disadvantaged groups would be enhanced through training and
entrepreneurship programs specifically designed for them.
(e) Finally, expansion of livelihood and entrepreneurship training
programs would be one means to address both the high level of
poverty and of unemployment and underemployment in the Philippines
by providing skills for women, the unemployed and out-ot-school
youth for employment and self-employment, particularly in the rural
areas and in the urban informal sector.
B. Risks
5.2       There are two major risks.  The first is the potential for
increased constraints on counterpart funds caused by possible further
reduction in government resources. To minimize this risk, the project has
been designed to defer the requirements for counterpart funds to the later
years of project implementation when the economy is expected to be stronger.
At negotiations the Government agreed to consult with IDA prior to making
revision to the financial plan. The second project risk is the possibility
that the private sector may not be responsive to the need to expand their in-
house training capability and allocating more resources to the training of
workers. To lower that risk, the project would provide assistance to
strengthen the capacity to train workers in private firms, revive
apprenticeship training, and extend incentive and advisory services to firms
to develop their capacity to train their workers.



- 33 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       IDA has received assurances from the Government that it would:
(a) consult IDA prior to making revisions to the financial plan for
NMYC (para. 5.2); and
(b) within nine months of the end of each Government fiscal year, IDA
will be provided with a consolidated audit report on project
accounts (para. 4.16).
6.2       Understandings have been reached with the Government that it would:
(a) implement project studies according to an agreed timetable (para.
4.9); and
(b) implement civil works rehabilitation and equipment procurement
according to an agreed timetable (paras. 4.8 and 4.10).
6.3       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project would
constitute a suitable basis for a development credit of SDR 26.4 million
(US$36.0 million equivalent) to the Republic of the Philippines on standard
IDA terms with 35 years maturity.



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
PHILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
NHYC: Institutional Strenathening
1.        The recent review undertaken by the Bank and the Philippine
Government of vocational training for operations and craftsmen (WB report No.
8259-PH, January 24, 1990) concluded that the immediate need for strengthening
NHYC's capacity to furnish support in policy development, planning, research
and development to the sector was imperative. The new management of the NIYC
has taken steps to begin addressing this issue.
Background
2.        The NHYC was created in 1966 to integrate skills training activi-
ties under one body. It was comprised of a Council and a Secretariat and was
given important statutory powers consolidated in an Act of Congress of 1969.
The powers and functions of the Council were further enhanced by the promulga-
tion of a Labor Code in 1974. The prime purposes of the Council under the Act
and Labor Code are to: (a) recommend on the development of national training
policies, strategies and programs to meet manpower needs; (b) provide "staff"
support to agencies executing training programs through technical advice and
assistance for the purpose of improving training, planning, management,
quality, efficiency and relevance, and initiate research and development, and
(c) conduct training programs.
3.        NMYC is headed by a Council consisting of senior representatives
from all training agencies in the country. These include both Government
Departments dealing with human resources and private sector representatives
from labor, management and industry, and youth welfare organizations. The
Council is currently chaired by the Secretary of Labor and Employment (DOLE),
with the Secretary of the Department of Education, Culture and Sports (DECS)
as Vice Chairman. Other government officials on the Council include: the
Secretaries of the Departments of Trade and Industry; Food and Agriculture;
Environment and Natural Resources; Social Welfare and Development; Science and
Technology; Local Government; the Director General of the National Economic
and DevelopmenL Authority; and, the Chairman of the Civil Service Commission.
From the private sector there are two representatives from Labor, two from
management and industry, one for youth welfare and one for family organiza-
tions. The Council's membership was established some years ago and is no
longer appropriate. It would be necessary to increase representation from
industry and NGOs. At regional and provincial levels, "council" committees do
typically have a broader representation as the membership is not governed by
legislation. The Council has four standing committees covering major sectors:
industry, agriculture, services and non-formal education. Each has functions
for policy formulation and planning.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
4.        The Council is provided with a full-time Secretariat headed by a
Director General. The Secretariat had developed a strong public image and
"everyday" reference to NMYC usually refer to the Secretariat rather than the
Council. The organization of the Secretariat was overly complex and not
suited to execute its functions. The Director General manages the
organization. Recently, a new Deputy Director General was appointed and given
responsibility for the policy and planning function. A second "de facto"
Deputy Director General is responsible for the training function. Four
Executive Directors head the four departments: Office of Manpower Planning
and Coordination (OMPC), the Office of Industry Manpower and Incentives
(OIMI), the Office of Manpower Skills Development (OMSD), and the Office of
Vocational Training and Development (OVTD).
5.        The OMPC has staff functions with three divisions:  Planning; Rural
Manpower Development; and, Evaluation and Research is intended to provide
policy direction to the Council, including the mapping out of strategies for
the preparation, utilization and conservation of the country's human
resources. It also provides consultative technical and advisory services on
planning to the regional offices of NMYC, but has limited capacity to do so.
The OMPC is inadequately staffed and managed but steps are being taken to
strengthen and develop MPO's sectoral support functions through staff
training.
6.        The OMSD includes units for:  Skills Standards Development;
Training Technology; Trainer's Development, and Vocational Guidance. It is
responsible for providing policy recommendations: on trainers' training; skill
standards development and certification; curriculum and training materials
development; vocational guidance; and management and development of staff
training. The OMSD is one of the strongest of NMYC's offices, and its work is
reflected in the comparative strength of the NMYC training programs.
7.        The OIMI provides line support for new skills development and
training operations and includes what are essentially the line functions of a
regional training center. It is expected to recommend policies on the
establishment, administration and management of national manpower skills
training programs and projects, including those undertaken through foreign
financial and technical assistance.
8.        The OMSD functions as a Regional Manpower and Training Center for
the National Capital Region. It is designed to allow for the introduction and
testing of new training programs and houses the leather and garment training
institutes.
9.        At the resional level, NHYC has 14 Regional Manpower Development
Offices (RMDOs), each headed by a Regional Director whc reports to the
Director General. The Regional Directors are virtually autonomous and
responsible to plan and implement manpower development plans for their
respective regions. They conduct training programs at the 14 Regional
Manpower and Training Center (RMTCs) in -'ollaboration with local government,
other national government agencies, private firms and NGOs. The 14 RMTCs run
courses of six months or less for operators and craftsmen in traditional
skills such as mechanics, construction, and electronics, and are housed in



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
well-equipped permanent structures. Three RMTCs have important functions in
trainer training and trainer upgrading. At the provincial level, 13
Provincial Manpower and Training Centers (PMTCs) have been established
together with 150 Community Training Units (CTUs). The PMTCs run courses,
similar to those offered by the RMTCs, but with an emphasis on addressing
local industry needs. The CTUs are established in conjunction with
implementation of the Community Training Programs, and are equipped with
'mobile' training equipment and tool units.
10.       Responsibilities for training strategy development and planning are
primary mandates of NMYC. These responsibilities had not been met. The
seriousness of the situation is however still reflected in the lack of
accurate basic data on such fundamentals as the numbers of institutions,
training places, and graduates. To develop and improve data basis and
planning capacity is a key need. There is also a need for more and better
trained manpower planners, and human resource economists in the NMYC, NEDA,
and other Government Departments. Strong technical support will be given in
the project to Departments that provide training to develop their sectoral
planning capabilities and to improve data collection and analysis. NEDA is
responsible for long-term planning. Its Social Development Division has a
mandate to coordinate education and manpower training programs but it relies
on NMYC for this. NEDA also provides technical assistance in project
preparation. Although it is nominally responsible for analysis of the labor
market, very little attention is given to this task in view of the few
professional NEDA staff in the Division.
11.       Planning is also weak in the Department of Education, Culture and
Sports. The Planning Division of this Department has not undertaken any
substantial assessments of the relationship between education and the labor
market owing to lack of expertise. Similarly, the Department of Labor and
Employment has two Bureaus responsible for the labor market: the Bureau of
Employment Statistics and the Bureau of Labor and Employment. The latter is
expected to analyze the data collated by the former. Unfortunately, it
concentrates instead, through its Labor Market Information Division, on
collecting data solely from DOLE's employment exchanges. By default, another
agency in DOLE, the Institute of Labor Studies, has taken over the role of
analyzing the labor market, but little work has been completed.
12.       Policies to meet strategic labor market needs to support economic
development are critical and pertinent questions must be continuously posed
and answered. Is the training delivery system relevant to the skill needs of
the economy? Are there clear objectives and a realistic set of policies? Is
there sound management? Are there effective planning and evaluation
mechanisms? The NMYC has, for long, been legally mandated by Congress with
the formulation of training policies. The Council, with senior representation
from core Departments involved in training, industry, unions, and NGOs, was
established to provide a forum for the discussion of policies and plans.
However, the Secretariat has neither been called to give account to the
Council on the appropriateness of training policies nor has it raised issues
at the Council that required policy discussion. This situation has now
changed. Although training is still provided by a variety of agencies on a
piece meal basis, with all the inefficiencies that naturally arise from this



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
approach, a more orderly program is being put in place. The NMYC is charged
by Statute with a complete set of "staff" functions including, for instance,
national manpower planning, setting training standards, research and develop-
ment. A renewed emphasis is now being placed on sectoral support through
NMYC's constituent training agencies and the Secretariat is planning to phase
out its "hands-on" training activities.
Institutional Development
13.       A component under the project has been designed to improve the
capacity of NMYC to deliver the policy, planning and training support to the
sector as described in legislation currently proposed. The component has four
thrusts: (a) improving the overall managerial capability, particularly at
national and regional level; (b) improving the technical capability of
professional and key sub-professionals at national, regional and provincial
levels in such key sector support areas as (i) labor economics and manpower
planning; (ii) computer-based information system development; (iii) research
and development; and, (iv) monitoring and evaluation; (c) developing a
management and planning information system; and (d) separating within the NMYC
organizational structure at provincial, regional and national levels the
"linen training and "staff" sector support functions, ensuring the adequate
staffing of the two functions.
14.       ManaRerial Capability.  The justification for strengthening
management is described in the Vocational Training Subsector Report and in the
Project Preparation Document of October 1990 prepared by NMYC. While the
technical capability of NMYC senior and middle managers is considered
reasonable, this is not true of their managerial skills and a management
training program is required. The actual numbers to be trained would be
specified in a staff development plan under preparation by NMYC. The staff
development would be executed through a linkage between NMYC, perhaps a local
university (or the Asian Institute of Management) and an overseas university
or center of management training. It is expected that this institutional
linkage arrangement will facilitate (i) the build-up of a local management
training capability; (ii) provide a pool of technical assistance staff to
perform functions in NMYC while local staff are being trained "off-the-job";
and (4ii) permit on-the-job training of more junior staff simultaneously.
15.       Technical Capability.  Training and upgrading of key technical
support staff would also be necessary and particularly staff of other
Departments with responsibilities of training would have to be included. The
training would focus on strengthening technical capabilities in such areas as
manpower planning, economics, statistical analysis, computing, evaluation and
research. It is proposed that a major emphasis be given to the planning
capability. As with management training, a system of institutional links is
envisaged between training institutions, a local university and an overseas
center.
16.       NMYC Oraanization.  During project preparation, the present
organization would has been changed to make it possible for the Council and
its regional and local committees to perform their functions as indicated by
their legal mandate; and for the NMYC Secretariat to strengthen (i) its



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
management and support functions to the Council and its field offices; and
(ii) its functions to train operatives and craftsmen. The following
principles have guided the new structure (part of which has already been
implemented by NMYC)s (a) build on existing strengths and capabilities; (b)
avoid new recurrent costs; and (c) ensure the profiles of staff broadly match
job needs. The following three major thrusts have occurredt (a) the direct
"line" training functions of NMYC and the "staff* sector support functions
below the level of Director General have been separated by creating Deputies
to manage each of the two mandates; (b) increasing the representatives of the
private sector (i.e., industry and NGOs) in Regional Committees and below,
where micro-planning takes meaningful shape and in line with government policy
decentralizing; and (c) rearranging sector support functions organizationally
particularly to enhance data collection and analysis, policy review, planning
(sub-sectoral manpower), budgetary allocations and expenditures, research and
development and evaluation and feedback.
17.       Information Systems.  The plan for the establishment of a
management and planning information system are consistent with the government
order (MC237) requiring all agencies to formulate a long-term (2-5 years)
Information System Strategic Plan. The development of this plan is presently
under way within NMYC. The plan would address the following objectives: (1)
define an information system to support planning, operation, and control
functions of NMYC; (2) evaluate NMYC's present capability to support its
information needs; and (3) identify system development priorities, organiza-
tional and resource requirements, and a time schedule for implementation. The
information system would comprise five sub-systems. These include (1) admin-
istration; (2) manpower supply; (3) manpower demand; (4) skills certification
register; and (5) test item bank. These sub-systems would operate most effi-
ciently and cost-effectively as discrete units. They would have the capability
of data interchange when necessary but would not dependent on data interchange
for their operation.
18.       Consistent with the present NMYC goals for devolution of respon-
sibility, a distributed system is planned, to provide the regional offices
with the capability of independent operation. Such a design would provide
high flexibility at relatively low cost. It would be implemented gradually
and independently at different sites. Small computers, commonly referred to
as "personal computers," would serve adequately at most sites. Standard off-
the-shelf software application packages would serve for most purposes. Ini-
tially, no custom programming would have to be done. Although standardized
data formats would be desirable, the system would be sufficiently flexible to
allow variations and changes in formats. These features would combine to
provide a robust system, less sensitive to most kinds of system failures faced
by centralized systems.
19.       In order for such a system to operate most efficiently, however,
training in standard computer application programs will have to be provided on
a wide scale. In most cases, machines will not be used for a single specific
task, but will be available for a variety of uses. With this kind of system,
few computer specialists and many generalists will be required. Since the
information system is to be installed at the regional level within the next
few years, training will also have to be provided at that level in order to



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
enable full utilization of the equipment.  At the level of the R8Os, all
professional staff and most of the support staff will need basic training in
standard off-the-shelf software application packages. The duration of
training would be short since modern software packages are relatively easy to
learn and use. The duration of courses is typically hours, rather than
months. Persons with computer skills can often command salaries higher than
the government offers. In the Philippines, a two to three year period of
bonding is standard practice for government employees receiving training at
government expense. This practice would apply to persons trained in the
project.
20.       Since standard off-the-shelf software application packages will
form the backbone of the system, most training requirements would be met by
local commercial training organizations or by in-house training. A relatively
small number of specialists would require more advanced local training.
Technical assistance may be required to help in the development of data
collection instruments and procedures. The overall training and technical
assistance requirements would be specified in the Information System Strategic
Plan.
21.       Availability of Computers.  At present, the NMYC has approximately
180 work stations, distributed as follows: At the Taguig complex, a total of
79 divided as follows: Office of the Director General 12; MPO 8; IMO 5; NISD
9; Finance Branch 7; VTP 7; Administrative Branch 7; NSTC 24. In the Regions
and Provinces, there are 104 computers as follows: RMTOs 66; RMTCs 30; PMTCs
8. About 40 percent of these work stations are computers without hard disks.
These machines are out of date. They are slow and do not perform well with
modern software and should be upgraded or replaced. The computer requirements
would be specified in the Information System Strategic Plan.
22.       Estimated cost.  The largest cost for the information system would
be incurred for consulting services for software development. The software
system will be developed partly by the staff of the Technical Services &
Information Branch of NMYC and partly by local computer software consultants,
working in consultation with the staff. The second largest cost item would be
computer equipment and standard, commercially available, application software.
The present computer system at NMYC is based on personal computers.  For those
applications envisaging large data bases, however, a faster high-range RISC
type personal computer would be needed. Also, one medium-range 386 type
computer would be required for each of the regional offices (RMOs). The third
largest cost would be for local and foreign staff training in hardware
maintenance and software development to enable the staff to work with the
system. Other items include uninterrupted power supplies with power stabil-
ization, a generator to provide reserve power for the main computer, and air
conditioners for the equipment at 14 RHOs.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Summary of the Policy Paper
'Vocational and Technical Education and Training: Towards
a Long-Term Policy for the Subsector'. July 27. 1990
Introduction
1.        The policy paper was drafted in the later part of 1990 as part of
the preparation of the Second Vocational Training Project by a task force
comprising staff of Government Departments responsible for employment and
training assisted by a labor market economist. It was discussed by the
Council of the National Manpower and Youth Council (NMYC), which represents
all concerned Departments, labor, management, industry and youth
organizations. The Council approved the policy paper in June 1991 and
directed Government Departments to begin with the implementation of the agreed
policies.
The Rationale for a Long-term Policy for Technical Education and Trainina
2.        The major reason for introducing the policies proposed in the paper
is that the Government has made considerable investments in technical and
vocational education and training to increase productivity of the labor force,
improve income distribution and expand the pool of trained manpower. However,
at this time, weak economic growth constrains further investments and new
policies are necessary which aim at getting the maximum benefits from the
earlier investments in the training system. For that reason, the focus of the
policies in the paper is on improving the efficiency and quality of existing
programs and institutions and increasing the role of the private sector while
safeguarding the equity objective of making training available to those who
need such training to secure jobs.
Policies to ImDrove Efficiency and Quality
3.        To achieve the objective of higher efficiency and quality, the
paper analyses five broad policy issues and makes specific recommendations to
improve existing policies in these areas. A short description and rationale
for the recommended policies is given below.
4.        Clarify the role and responsibilities of the two maior providers of
training: the Department of Education, Culture and Sports (DECS) and NMYC.
DECS should administer and coordinate technical and vocational education and
training programs in the formal education sector and NMYC would be responsible
for nonformal vocational training. This division of responsibilities would
lead to more efficient program management, simplify program selection by
trainees and employers, avoid unnecessary duplication of efforts and maximize



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
the expertise and comparative advantage of the two agencies. A detailed set
of guidelines and measures of cooperation was agreed upon by DECS and NMYC and
a Memorandum of Agreement was signed in August 1991 (see Annex 3).
5.        Improve articulation between DECS and NMYC proRrams.  To make this
possible, accreditation and equivalent schemes would be developed to facil-
itate trainees transferring from formal to nonformal programs and vice versa,
depending on their needs and employment conditions. Better articulation would
lead to the acquisition of multiple skills by workers, improve access to
training and increase mobility in the labor force.
6.        Focus on imDrovina the quality and relevance of training.  Improve-
ments in quality of training would have direct benefits in terms of higher
quality of the workforce, higher productivity and better products and
services. It would also improve the attractiveness of technical education and
training and possible improve the attitude of young people regarding this type
of education which is currently low.
7.        Expand the role of the private sector in training and increase cost
sharing with the private sector. Since trainees and firms benefit from
technical education and training they should become more involved and
responsible for the design and the quality of the programs. Firms in
particular would be able to increase the relevance and attractiveness of
training programs by participating in the design and conducting of courses.
Trainees and firms as the beneficiaries should also shoulder a greater share
of the cost of training.
8.        Expand and improve the dissemination of information about trainini
opportunities and benefits. The infermation about the type of training
programs available in the country is uneven, particularly in the smaller towns
and villages, this needs to be improved. Also, potential trainees as well as
employers should be educated about the benefits of training programs in terms
of increased employability, acquisition of a great variety of useful skills
and usually, improved work ethics and attitudes.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
PHILIPPINIC
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Summary of the Memorandum of Understanding
betwegn DECS and NMYC
1.        The agreement was entered into and executed by Secretary Isidro D.
Carino and Undersecretary Erlinda C. Pefianco representing the Department of
Education, Culture and Sports and the Bureau of Technical and Vocational
Education -- and -- Secretary Ruben D. Torres and Director General Jose D.
Lacson representing the Department of Labour and Employment and the National
Manpower and Youth Council. It was signed in November 1991.
2.        The purpose of the Agreement is to optimize the use of the
education and training resources of DECS and NMYC by improving cooperation and
articulation between the two agencies and the education and training programs
they provide.
3.        DECS and NMYC agreed to collaborate in the following areas:
(a) technical information systems
(b)  apprenticeship or enterprizes-based training
(c) accreditation or credits
(d) trainers training
(e) manpower and labor market information
(f) training materials development, and
(g) job placement th rough the enterprise-based scheme
4.        The following activities will be jointly implemented:
(a) development and management of technical teachers/trainers training
programs,
(b) development and management of technical trainee skills upgrading
programs for graduate of TVE institutes,
(c) development and production of technical trainee skills upgrading
programs for graduate of TVE institutes,
(d) development of occupational skill standards measuring instruments
and certification schemes,
(e) establish joint management information system for manpower demand,
(f) establish for joint programs and activities, and
(g) establish and share a pool of experts and create joint committees
to implement joint programs.
5.        NMYC and DECS will provide, share and make available the required
resources and personnel to implement the above activities.



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
PHILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
The Status of A&RrenticeshiD Trainins
Introduction
1.        Apprenticeship is a system of employment and training governed by a
legal contract between the trainee and the employer. It is subject to
specific regulations, and monitored by a designated Government agency under
the umbrella of nationally enacted legislation. The legislation prescribes
periods of work experience and on-the-job training, combined with periods of
related technical training conducted in an approved technical institution.
The duration of apprenticeship varies widely from country to country. In
recent years, long apprenticeships, sometimes up to five to six years, have
been replaced by shorter, more focused and intensive periods lasting up to two
to three years. There has also been a decline in the number of apprenticeable
trades. Changing manufacturing techniques and changing skills have lessened
the demand for apprenticeship in traditional occupations. Nevertheless,
modern apprenticeship programs, supported by suitably legislation, remain an
efficient and cost-effective means of developing skilled workers, whose
competency matches the needs of employers, because of the close link between
on, and, off-the-job training and the focuses on real training needs. For
these reasons apprenticeship is also seen as an integral part of employment
promotion.
2.        The core of an apprenticeship scheme is the contract entered into
by the trainee and the employer. The contract guarantees and protects the
rights of both parties. It specifies the length of training, conditions of
work and leave entitlements, and the obligations of both parties. The
employer guarantees to provide specific periods of on-the-job training and
agrees to allow time off for off-the-job training. Financial remuneration is
written into the contract at rates, usually not less than the minimum wage
rate. A guarantee is given to the trainee that the prescribed training
program would be followed for the full duration of the apprenticeship and that
in return, the apprentice will accept the agreed level of remuneration. For
the period of the apprenticeship, the wage structure will be less than that
paid to a non-apprenticed worker undertaking similar tasks. The contract
ensures that an apprenticeship program meets the expectations of employer and
trainee alike at an economic opportunity cost which both parties recognize as
equitable.
3.        A national apprenticeship scheme needs to be carefully monitored, a
process which includes maintaining a national register of apprentices by name
and occupational area, as well as regular inspection of enterprises where
apprentices are employed to monitor their conditions of employment. The
government would also be responsible for maintaining a national certification
system to record the progress of apprentices towards the status of skilled
worker. In some countries, governments subsidize apprenticeship programs



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
through: a system of tax rebates or other incentives to employers; and,
direct or indirect subsidies to trainees through subsistence payments during
periods of institutional training; or, the provision of free off-the-job
instruction and learning materials. But, in principle, apprenticeship
programs are self supporting with the costs of apprenticeship training to the
employer being met by increased productivity, less down-time, lower
maintenance charges and reduced wastage, and for the trainee through the free
acquisition of skills resulting in higher income at a later stage.
4.        It is essential to see apprenticeship as part of a wider manpower
development system. A well-designed and well-monitored apprenticeship scheme
can promote company loyalty, and create a cadre of skilled workers capable of
turning into master craftsmen, supervisors and technicians. Apprenticeship
systems depend on the existence of effective training system in the public and
private sectors. There must be sufficient numbers of in-plant trainers, and
provisions should be made for inspectors who can monitor working conditions of
apprentices, check on occupational safety, opportunities to practice skills
which do not endanger the trainee, and ensure that the conditions of the
apprenticeship contract are observed. Training facilities need to be avail-
able and center trainers must be able to provide practical work experience.
Finally, an apprenticeship program depends on the existence of a system of
skill standards and certification to support the apprentices' skills and
career development and promote mobility in the labor market.
The Philippine Experience
5.        Formal apprenticeship in the Philippines dates back to 1951 when
the Republic Act No. 602 - 'Minimum Wage Law", made provision for the estab-
lishment of an Apprenticeship Division within the Bureau of Labor. Prior to
that, various forms of "informal" apprenticeships could be found but they were
not bound by a legal framework. The Apprenticeship Division was mandated to
create a national register of apprenticeable trades, and determine the number
of apprentices to be indentured under each category, but this task was never
satisfactorily completed. In 1957, the government enacted the National
Apprenticeship Act (Republic Act No. 1826) which made amendments to the Labor
Code to include specific reference to a national apprenticeship program,
apprenticeship standards and the need for protection of apprentices and their
working conditions. A National Apprenticeship Council (NAC), a tripartite
body intended to advise the Secretary of Labor on all matters relating to
apprenticeship was established. Funds from the South East Asian Treaty
Organization were used to train staff from the Division of Apprenticeship, to
plan and administer apprenticeships, in accordance with the new provisions of
the Labor Code.
6.        In 1960, the Division was upgraded to an Office of Apprenticeship.
But external resources for staff development were exhausted and it proved
impossible to up-grade those responsible for administrating the apprenticeship
program and many of the modest provisions of the Labor Code were not fully
implemented nor could their progress be properly monitored. Also in 1960,
Republic Act No. 2628 replaced the original NAC by a newly constituted body
with the same name, but supported by a network of trade and industry advisory



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
committees. Some further improvements to the policies governing apprentice-
ship were introduced over the following decade, culminating in the elevation
of the Office of Apprenticeship to a Bureau of Apprenticeship in 1972.
7.        In the years that followed, the importance of apprenticeship, as a
viable training, gradually declined to an almost total lack of public and
professional confidence in the scheme by the late 1980s. A lack of under-
standing of the potential benefits to be derived from an effective apprentice-
ships reduced successive governments' commitments and the funds available to
support the national system. By 1981, the program was once again transferred
to a Division of Apprenticeship, located in the newly created Bureau of Local
Employment.
8.        While the government failed to appreciate apprenticeship's poten-
tial benefits, the pubkic's perceptions of apprenticeship sank still further.
Workers organizatiQns came to regard apprenticeship as a blatant form of
exploitation, pointing to the fact that the majority of trainees failed to
receive even a modicum of structured skills development, had relatively few
rights, and experienced no substantive legal protection.  Hardly worthy of the
name "apprenticeship", the system provided some employers with a period of
greatly reduced labor costs in exchange for relatively little outlay on
training. The number of registered apprentices showed a marked decline. In
1959, when apprenticeship started, there were 90 apprentices, rising to 2,347
by 1970 and 37,182 by 1980, but declining to 8,511 in 1989.
9.        In 1986, the situation was inadvertently worsened by Executive
Order 111, which amended Article 58 of the Labor Code. Apprenticeship was now
confined to "highly technical industries" and its duration was limited to a
maximxum period of six months. Although the intention was to set right some of
the worst abuses of the apprenticeship program, the impact of Statute 111 was
to reduce still further the status and viability of apprenticeship without
overcoming the system's technical, professional and equity problems. The
repeal of EO 111 must be a precursor to any improvement in the present
apprenticeship program.l/
10.       Recognizing that more fundamental measures were required, the
government requested a technical assistance project to review the needs for
change in the current apprenticeship system. 'Strengthening Apprenticeship"
(UNDP/ILO PHI/88/037) commenced in October, 1990, with the objective of:
reviewing the current status of apprenticeship; fostering tripartite consensus
for legislation to overhaul the present system; and, introducing much needed
reforms to ensure a more equitable and professional apprenticeship program. A
detailed review of the system has been completed and currently a series of
tripartite workshops are being organized to consider technical and administra-
tive issues including the selection of apprenticeable trades, administration,
and finance. These activities will culminate in a national tripartite
conference due to be held in June, 1991, where government, employers and
1/   Report  of the  first  tripartite workshop  on apprenticeship,  UNDP/ILO
PHI/88/037, 1991.



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 6
workers representatives are expected to endorse recommendations for new
apprenticeship legislation.
11.       Agreement has already been reached with the Department of Labor and
Employment that the new legislation will recognize the transfer of responsi-
bility for administering apprenticeship to the NHYC. It will be administered
in the context of NMYC's mandate to set skills standards and coordinate insti-
tutional or industry-based skills development. NMYC has developed ways to
promote private sector involvement in skills training. The current project
includes a Training Assistance Contract Program which would assist in building
up industry's capability to train its own workers. This would support
apprenticeship programs, by financing the development of in-plant trainers,
foremen and supervisors who will administer the new apprenticeship program.
Also included is support for an Inspectorate tasked to monitor the employment
and legal aspects of the apprenticeship system. Approximately 32 professional
inspectors would be trained.
Issues to be addressed by the Proiect
12.       Weak Administration.  Successive Governments have failed to appre-
ciate the need for adequate financial resources for administration. As the
system's reputation declined, there appeared to be even less incentive to
improve the administration.  Staffing levels declined, and there has been an
exodus of experienced staff.  The need to ensure an informed and committed
administrative framework for apprenticeship will be addressed by the transfer
to the NMYC Office for Apprenticeship and the establishment of a new adminis-
trative system to implement the revised apprenticeship rules and regulations
currently being drafted.  Staff development for this new unit is envisaged
under the project.
13.       Complex Bureaucratic Structure.  A recent ILO study 2/ identifies
three levels of bureaucratic responsibility for apprenticeship.  At the
national level, the Apprenticeship Division of the Bureau of Local Employment
(BLE). At the regional level, Apprenticeship Sections within the Employment
Promotion Divisions (EPD) of the Bureau of Local Employment; and at the local
enterprise level, Plant Apprenticeship Committees. Current weaknesses in
these structures are due to a lack of commitment, aggravated by a lack of
knowledge of apprenticeship programs. The transfer of apprenticeship to the
NHYC and the presence of newly trained staff at both the central and regional
NHYC offices should assist in rectifying this situation. Also, under the
project, appropriate standards, testing and certification procedures will be
introduced and a computerized registration system installed.
14.       Apprenticeshi2 AQreements.  BLE has developed a pro-forma agreement
for use by employers. This model specifies: work processes; hours of theoret-
ical training; and a graduated scale of approved wages. But it falls far
21 Newton,G. "An evaluation of apprenticeship in the Philippines and policy
recommendations to strengthen it"; a draft report prepared for GOP/ILO
under PHI/88/037, April 1991.



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
short of the detailed contract, which should be the basis of a responsible
apprenticeship system, and provides little in the way of guarantees to either
party. In addition, the basic agreement appears to be subject to "negotia-
tion". A recent survey 3/ noted that nationwide, 45 percent of apprentices
are likely to receive less than the legislated 75 percent of the minimum wage,
while in the National Capital Region the figure rises to over 60 percent.4/
This is partly due to a widely held perception that the Labor Code's provision
for apprentice's wages is not a mandatory regulation but an indicative
ceiling. The same survey also notes that the six month duration of apprent-
iceship agreements imposed by EO 111 is 'highly inconsistent with the
realities of the labor market ... technically advanced industries cannot be
serviced by a training period of six months ... which at best can only produce
semi-skilled workers for a narrow range of employment functions".5/ Some
employers have recognized this anomaly and are voluntarily extending apprent-
iceship duration. Approximately 25 percent of apprenticeships are lasting
longer than six months. New legislation, currently being prepared under the
UNDP/ILO project, should tackle this problem and the Second Vocational
Training Project should ensure that there are adequately trained administra-
tors to oversee its legal provisions.
15.       Monitoring.  The EPDs are responsible for monitoring to ensure that
apprenticeship agreements are honored. Checks are necessary to ensure that:
agreed training standards and duration of on-and off-the job training are
maintained; that there is a record of each apprentice's progress and attain-
ments; and, that wage records match those agreed in the contract. Recent
review reveals that many employers modify agreed training schedules, keep
inadequate records, pay less than the agreed minimum wage, give trainees work
unrelated to the apprenticeship contract, and transfer apprentices and their
contracts to new trade areas every six months, in order to restart the indent-
ure period prescribed by EO 111. EPD monitoring staff are unable to cope with
the task of monitoring because of under-funding, a shortage of trained staff
and an absence of effective legislation to deal with contract violations. The
proposed new legislation and the provision of a cadre of trained inspectors
under the project should help to improve the monitoring process.
16.       Evaluation of Apprentice Performance and Certification.  Employers
lack specific guidelines to evaluate apprentices and are unaware of the
relationship between apprenticeship and skill standards set by NMYC.
Evaluation tends to focus on work output and attitudes rather than skill
attainment. Certification is the task of EDP, but certificates are issued
automatically at the expiry of the indentured period. The MMYC Office for
3/   "Evaluation of the apprenticeship program in the Philippines"; Pulse and
Mind, Consultants, draft report submitted to GOP/ILO, April 1991.
4/ Survey conducted by Pulse and Hind Consultants for PHI/88/037, 1991.
S/ Newton, G. "An evaluation of apprenticeship in the Philippines and policy
recommendations to strengthen it"; a draft report prepared for GOP/ILO
under PHI/88/037, April 1991.



-48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
Apprenticeship, together with the Division of Trade Testing, Standards and
Certification, are mandated to correct this situation.
17.       Identification of Apprenticeable Skills.  The current list of
apprenticeable occupations requires a major review since it contains many
anomalies which do not match the criteria for a modern apprenticeship system.
Many of the present occupation require low-level skills and should not qualify
In addition, some employers use apprenticeship programs for non-recognized
occupations such as janitors and kitchen helpers, in order to take advantage
of the lower wages which can be paid during the training period. Such
practices lower the overall value of apprenticeship. The current UNDP/ILO
Project is intended to rectify this situation by redefining the list of
apprenticeable occupations and under the Second Vocational Training Project,
the necessary standards and certification would be developed.
18.       Training Institutions.  Under the 1957 National Apprenticeship Act,
all off-the-job apprenticeship training was to be undertaken at institutions
of the Department of Education and Culture. A general acceptance that such
training was largely unrelated to employment needs and the emergence of more
practical venues, namely the facilities of NMYC and DTI, has resulted in a
shift away from DECS institutions.
19.       Completion Rates and Post-Apprenticeship Employment.  Completion
rate are estimated at less than 50 percent, a very low figure. This is due to
the failure of employees to properly train their registered apprentices and
the tendency for apprentices to leave prior to completion, due to low wages
and a search for better employment. However, prior to 1986, as many as 96
percent of apprentices, completing their agreed period of indenture, and were
given opportunities to remain in employment with the same employer.  After EQ
111 was passed in 1986, this figure declined to 87 percent in 1987.  Revised
legislation incorporating ' realistic duration of apprenticeship and improved
basic wage rights, combined with better administration and provisions for
monitoring, will improve completion rates and provide better guarantees for
subsequent employment.
Conclusion
20.       Apprenticeship in the Philippines has suffered from a lack of
commitment on the part of successive governments and a comparable lack of
appreciation on the part of employers. This has resulted in the system being
under-financed, under-staffed and insufficiently supported by appropriate
legislation; exploited by employers and mistrusted by workers' associations.
Current efforts to put the system to rights need to be supported since a
viable apprenticeship system produces an effective means of training skilled
workers at an affordable cost. Assistance must be provided to prepare appro-
priate standards and certification. Industrial trainers will be required in
large numbers and will need up-grading in knowledge and experience. An
inspectorate must be established to ensure that the system works, and that
legislation is enforced for the benefit of employers and trainees. Support for
these proposed reforms is envisaged under the Second Vocational Training
Project.



- 49  -                                              ANNEX  5
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Sharing the Burden: Privatization, Decentralization, and Devolution
1.            NMYC recently began to devolve its training responsibilitLes to
local governments, communities, NGOs, and firms, with the intention of making
training more responsive to the needu of the trainees. This process of
devolution will be continued under the project. The framework for the
devolution of the training and related activities are outlined below.
SLicoonent                                          Burden-sharing Measures
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPIENT
StrengtheninQ Institutional Capability      Develop mechanisms for the decentralizatlon and dsvolution of mnagement of
(SIC)                                       IMYC Training Programs.
Marower Policy. Plaming and                 Preparation of pollcies for the further devolutlon of responsbilIties for
Coordination (MPPC)                         training and for Increasing the participatlon of the private sector In
tralning.
Marvower Information System                 The management Informatlon svstem would isprove the management capabilitles
Development (NMIS)                          of the regional offices (RMDs) and would promote decentralizatIon of training
activitles and devolutlon of management of training In order to luprove
accesslblllty.
B. IWROVING TRAINING QJALITY
Natlonal Skills Certification (NSCP)        The on-going devolutlon of trades testing responsibilities and transfer of
testing responsibllltlEs, includirg plaming and policy to the private sector
would continue.
COrrlculun and Training Materials           The target Is to cou,ercialize the prototype technical traIning materials
Development (CTMD)                            hilch would be produced throi4t the Incentive scheme Included urder this
stbcomponent and to Increase the participation of the reglon and the private
sector In the curriculum development.
Trainig Development Program (TiP)           The responsIbilltles for tralner training would be devolved to the local
commwnitles.
Employment Services and SkIlls              Employuent services are already decentralized to the regional and provincIal
Promotion (ESSP)                             levels. The activities uider this subwcoponent are almed at supporting the
Improvement of these services In both the formal and Informal sectors and
Increase the participation of the private sector and NGOs.
Monitorhg and Evaluation of Trainin         The aim Is the Inprovement of technical and financlal managment mot only at
(MET)                                       the central level but also at the reglonal levels. which would swort the
devolution of responsibilitles.



- 50 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
Sbco(nent                                         Burde-sharing Measures
C. TRAINING CAPACITY DEVELOPbENT
Trahi  Contract Schm  (TCS)                 Ths alm Is to refocus the onw-oirg tranhin contract scheme and to targat
the sche more directly to small - and medim-sized firms In the private
sector and to focus on building t histry's omw training capacity.
Trainkn Assistance Contract (TAC)           The aim Is to assist medium - and large-sized firms and other governmnt
agnoies to develop their own capacity to traln.
Trainkig. Delivery System for Rural         The objeotive Is to support the ftrther devokution of Informal training
hfornal Sector (MIS)                       programs to the loal comitbs ard NGOs
0. SECTOR STUDY                             The study would consider Inter alla the role and responsibilities of private
e*catlon and trainin kistitutlons for vocatlonaVtoctllcal programs and the
responsIbilItIes of DECS In relatlon to these training Institutlons.



- 51 -
ANNEX 6
PHILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
NIYC 5 YEAR - Financig Plan
(US$ million)
Category                           Total     1992       1993      1994      1995       1996      1997
GOP                                   44.1       5.9       8.1        8.5       7.7        7.1       6.8
IDA                                   38.0       0.3       6.7       11.0       9.4       6.2        2.4
Total                                 80.1       6.2       14.8      19.5      17.1       13.3       9.2
Cost Recovery
Trainkrg Fees                          2.7       -         -          0.6       0.7        0.7       0.8
Trade Testing Fees                     1.8       -         -         -          0.1       0.7        1.0
Sale of DeveloWed Materials            0.3       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.1       0.1
Total                                  4.8       0.0       0.0        0.6       0.8        1.4       1.9
CapitaVinvestment Costs
A. Civil Wrks                           3.2        0.0       1.1       2.1        0.0       0.0       0.0
B. FurnIttre                            0.2        0.0       0.1       0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0
C. Professional Services                0.1        0.0       0.1       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
D. Techlical Assistance
!nternatlonal
Fellowship                  2.8        0.0       0.7       G.8        0.6       0.5        0.3
Local Training                 8.7       0.1       1.4        2.3       2.1        1.9       0.9
Local Exerts                   1.7       0.1       0.8        0.3       0.2        0.2       0.1
Forelig Experts                1.8       0.0       0.6        0.3       0.5       0.2        0.2
SLbtotal                      15.0       0.2       3.6        3.7       3.4       2.8        1.4
E. Equlpment                           11.2       0.0        1.6       3.9        4.2       1.5       0.0
F. Books & Res. Mats.                   0.6        0.0       0.3       0.2        0.0       0.0       0.0
G. Caosmbie Materials                   2.0        0.0       0.3       0.5        0.5       0.4       0.2
H. Others                               5.9        0.0       0.7       1.7        1.7       1.3       0.4
SLbtotal                      38.3       0.3       7.9       12.3       9.8       6.0        2.0
Recurrent Costs
1. Operation & Maitenance              16.0        1.7       2.6       2.8        2.9       3.0       3.0
J. Staff Salaries                      25.9        4.2       4.3       4.3        4.3       4.3       4.3
Subtotal                      41.9       5.9        7.0       7.1       7.2        7.3       7.3
TOTAL EXPEIDITUES                                         1 42 .L8  19.5       17.1      1 3.



- 52 -
ANNEX7
Paig-   of 4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Peso
Prolect Components by Year
Bas Costs                               Total
. .................................................................
92      93       94      95       96      97   Peso    USS
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
1. STRENGTH INSTIT CAPASL           2.6    15.6    10.1    12.9        9.5     7.4    58.1      2.1
2. MUNPOWER POL,PLNG & COORD         0.0    15.7    32.3    34.4    36.6    18.8   137.8        4.9
3. MANPOWER INFO. SYSTEM             1.2    23.3    21.8      7.3      1.8     0.6    56.0      2.0
4. PROJECT MANAGENT                  0.1     3.4      3.2     3.2      3.2     1.6    14.8      0.5
Sub-totat                              3.9    57.9    67.5    57.9    51.1    28.4   266.7        9.5
B. IMPROVE TRAINING QUALITY
1. NAT SKILL CERT&PROM PR            0.0    18.7    20.7    10.8       4.4     0.0    54.6      2.0
2. CURRIC & TRNG MAT DEVEL           0.0    28.2      9.5     5.9      2.2     0.4    46.2      1.7
3. TRAINOR DEVELOPMT PROG            0.0     8.5    19.2    16.3    17.3       7.7    69.1      2.5
4. EMPLOYNT SERVICES PROG            0.0     0.9      3.8     4.5      5.6     4.5    19.4      0.7
S. CENTER TEC&NGNT/FIN AUDIT         0.0     0.8      1.2     0.3      0.4     0.3     3.0      0.1
,.......;..........................................................
Sub-total                              0.0    57.2    54.3    37.9    29.9    12.9   192.2        6.9
C. TRAINING CAPACITY DEV.
1. UPGRADE EXISTING FACILIT         2.0    18.6    96.7    86.4    31.5        0.7   235.9      8.4
2. TRAINING CONTRACT SCHEME          0.2     3.9      8.0     7.9      4.9     1.4    26.3      0.9
3. TRNG ASSIST CONTRACT              0.0    12.0    25.2    24.6    16.3       4.4    82.5      2.9
4. TRNG DEV SUPP INF SECT            1.6    30.8    39.7    19.3       9.4     4.5   105.3      3.8
9 .................................................... ........... ..................... ...............
Sub-total                              3.8    65.3   169.6   138.3    62.0    11.0   449.9    16.1
D. SECTOR & FEASIBIL STUDIES           0.0    16.1      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    16.1      0.6
......... ..... ;...................... i............................
Totat BASELINE COSTS                   7.7   196.4   291.5   234.1   143.1    52.2   925.0    33.0
Physical Contingencies              0.4     8.9    16.6    12.4       5.9     1.4    45.5      1.6
Price Contingencies                 0.2    15.8    47.3    56.0    53.8    26.2   199.2        7.1
..................................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                    8.2   221.1   355.4   302.5   202.8    79.8  1169.8    41.8
====a3== -------as----i  ---ns-m.Unm---U3 -u-uU33ai3naUUUUUUUUU3
Taxes                               0.4    10.4    19.3    14.2      6.2      0.9    51.5      1.8
Foreign Exchange                    1.5    81.4   136.4   128.3    57.1    15.0   419.9    15.0
V eSa         b0......0..........0 5/1/199215:38..
V lues Seated by 10D0000.0 5/1/1992 15:38.



PHILIPPINES
SECOSD VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Projects Camiorents by Year
Totals Inctuding Contingencges                              Totals Including Contingefcies
Peso                                                         US#
92      93     94       95     96      97  Totat          92      93      94      95      96      97  Totat
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPNENT
1. STRENGTH INSTIT CAPABL         2.8   17.4   12.3   16.7   13.7   10.6   73.5              0.1    0.6    0.4    0.6    0.5    0.4    2.6
2. NANMPOER POL,PLNG & COOOR      0.0   17.5   38.6   44.3   50.8   27.6  178.8              0.0    0.6    1.4       1.6    1.8    1.0    6.4
3. NAJNPOWER INFO. SYSTEM         1.2   26.0   25.9    9.2    2.7    1.1   66.2              0.0    0.9    0.9    0.3    0.1        0.0    2.4
4. PROJECT MANAGENT               0.1     3.7    3.9    4.3    4.8        2.6   19.4         0.0    0.1    0.1       0.2    0.2    0.1      0.7
.............. ..............................  ............................................................   .........................................................
Sub-Totel                             4.2   64.6   80.8   74.6   72.0   41.8  337.9              0.1    2.3    2.9    2.7    2.6    1.5   12.1
S. IMPROVE TRAINING oUALITY
1. MAT SKILL CERISPoN PR          0.0   20.8   25.0   14.4    6.1         0.0   66.3         0.0    0.7    0.9    0.5    0.2    0.0    2.4
2. OURRIC & TRNG NAT DEVEL        0.0   31.3   11.3    7.9    3.3    0.6   54.4              0.0    1.1    0.4    0.3    0.1    0.0         1.9
3. TRAINOR DEVELOPUT PROG         0.0    9.5   23.9   22.2   26.0   12.5   94.1              0.0    0.3    0.9       0.8    0.9    0.4    3.4
4. EMPLOYNT SERVICES PROG         0.0     1.0    4.6    6.0    8.1        7.0   26.6         0.0    0.0    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.2         1.0
5. CENTER TECI GNT/FIN AUDIT      0.0    0.9    1.5    0.4    0.6    0.4    3.8              0.0    0.0    0.1       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1                w
Sub-Totel                             0.0   63.6   66.3   51.0   44.0   20.4  245.2              0.0    2.3    2.4       1.8    1.6    0.7    8.8
C. TRAINING CAPACITY DEV.
1. UPGRADE EXISTING FACILIT       2.1   22.2  120.0  108.1   41.3    1.1  294.8              0.1    0.8    4.3    3.9    1.5    0.0   10.5
2. TRAINING COTRACT SCHEME        0.2    4.3    9.7   10.5    7.1         2.3   34.1         0.0    0.2    0.3       0.4    0.3    0.1      1.2
3. TRNG ASSIST CONTRACT           0.0   13.2   30.6   32.9   23.9    6.9  107.4              0.0    0.5    1.1       1.2    0.9    0.2    3.8
4. TRW DEV SUIP INF SECT          1.8   35.2   48.0   25.4   14.4    7.3  132.2              0.1     1.3    1.7    0.9    0.5    0.3    4.7
SubTrotal                             4.1   74.9  208.3  176.9   86.8   17.6  568.6              0.1    2.7    7.4    6.3    3.1    0.6   20.3
P. SECTOR & FEASINIL STIDIES          0.0   18.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   18.0              0.0    0.6    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0      0.6
Total PROJECTS COSTS                  8.2  221.1  355.4  302.5  202.8   79.8  1169.8             0.3    7.9   12.7   10.8    7.2    2.9   41.8
.......................................................................................................................................................
Vatues Scaled by 1000000.0 5/1/1992  15:38.
Iur
x 
-.5



PHILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Peso
Siarv Accotmts by Year
Base Costs                                            Forein Exchue
. .. . ...... .... ......... .. ............ ........ ................ ........... ..................... ........ .............. ......
92         93         94          95         96         97      Total           X     mount
1. INMSTHENT COSTS
.. . .........
A.  CIVIL WORKS                            0.0       16.5       39.5         0.0        0.0         0.0       55.9         20.0    11.2
B.  FURNITURE                              0.0        0.6         1.0        1.9        0.9         0.0        4.3          0.0       0.0
C.  PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                  1.0        1.0         0.8        0.0        0.0         0.0        2.8           0.0      0.0
D. TECNNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. FOREIGN FELLOUSNIPS                 1.1        17.0       19.7       14.6        12.9        6.8       72.1         100.0    72.1
2. LOCAL TRAINING                      1.5       34.6        49.5       42.9        40.9       19.6      189.1           0.0      0.0
3. INTERNATIONAL EXPERTS               0.3        16.5        8.1        11.5        5.4        5.2       47.0          90.0    42.3
4. LOCAL EXPERTS                       2.1        18.8        8.1         5.7        3.7        1.5       39.9           0.0      0.0
Sub-totat                                  5.1       86.8       85.3        74.8       62.9       33.2       348.1         32.9   114.4
E.  EQUIPMENT                              0.0       38.4       92.1        93.7       32.5         0.7      257.3         85.0   218.7
F.  BOOKS & RESOURCE MATERIAL              0.0        7.7        4.9         1.2        0.4         0.0       14.3         75.0    10.7
G.  CONS0SABLE MATERIALS                   0.8        8.2        11.1        9.9        7.9         3.2       41.1          0.0       0.0
N.  ENTERPRISE-IASED TRAINING              0.8       17.7       38.0        35.9       25.0         7.8      125.2          0.0       0.0
..... .i  - ---   ; -- ---- .   .. .. ...........--- ---
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                     7.7      176.9       272.7      217.3      129.6        44.9      849.1         41.8   355.0
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
1.  OPERATION & MAINTENANCE                0.0       16.7       15.8        13.8       10.6        5.9        62.9          0.0      0.0
J.  STAFF SALARIES                         0.0        2.9         2.9        2.9        2.9         1.5       13.1          0.0       0.0
.... ........................... ..... ......... ................ ...........................................................  ..................
Totol REWRRENT COSTS                       0.0       19.6        18.7       16.7       13.5         7.4       75.9          0.0       0.0
............... .    . .......... ;7.................... .... ......... .. . ........ .............. .. .... ...... ........
Total BASELINE COSTS                       7.7      196.4       291.5      234.1      143.1       52.2       925.0         38.4   355.0
Phyical Contimunies                    0.4         8.9       16.6        12.4        5.9        1.4        45.5         59.4    27.1
Price Cantirpncies                     0.2        15.8       47.3       56.0        53.8       26.2       199.2         19.0    37.8
... ... .. .. ...... ;; ......... ..; .. ....... ............ ...... .... ...... .   ........ ............. .. .. . .. ...
Total PROJECT COSTS                        8.2      221.1      355.4       302.5      202.8       79.8    1169.8           35.9   419.9
Tas                                    0.4        10.4       19.3        14.2        6.2        0.9       51.5           0.0      0.0
Foreign Ex *h,e                        1.5       81.4       136.4      128.3       57.1        15.0      419.9         100.0   419.9
. ................................... ........ .............. ................. ..................................... ........... ..............
Value  Saled by 100000.O   51/192  15:38.
0



PHILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Summarv Accounts by Year
Totats Including Contingencies                                Totals Including Contingencies
Peso                                                          USS
92      93      94      95      96       97   Total         92      93      94      95      96      97  Total
3333333333333m3=S =-3333m                             =C SW :_U S=S
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
...............
A. CIVIL MORES                        0.0    19.7   51.4      0.0     0.0      0.0   71.1         0.0     0.7     1.8     0.0     0.0      0.0     2.5
B. FURNITURE                          0.0     0.6     1.2     2.5      1.3     0.0     5.7        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.1     0.0      0.0    0.2
C. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES              1.1     1.2     1.1     0.0     0.0      0.0     3.4        0.0     0.0     0,0     0.0     0.0      0.0    0.1
0. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. FOREIGN FELLOWSHIPS             1.2    18.3   22.0    17.0    15.5      8.4   82.4          0.0     0.7    0.8      0.6     0.6     0.3     2.9
2. LOCAL TRAINING                  1.6   39.5    62.1    59.2    62.2    32.0  256.7           0.1     1.4    2.2      2.1     2.2      1.1    9.2
3. INTERNATIONAL EXPERTS          0.4    17.8      9.1    13.6     6.7     6.7   54.3          0.0     0.6    0.3      0.5     0.2     0.2      1.9
4. LOCAL EXPERTS                  2.2    21.4    10.2      7.9     5.7     2.5   49.8          0.1     0.8    0.4      0.3     0.2     0.1      1.8
Sub-Total                             5.4    97.0   103.4   97.7   90.0    49.6  443.2            0.2     3.5     3.7    3.5      3.2      1.8    15.8
E. EUJIPNENT                          0.0   44.1   110.1   116.9   42.3        0.9  314.2         0.0     1.6    3.9      4.2     1.5      0.0    11.2
F. BOOS & RESOURCE MATERIAL          0.0      8.2     5.5     1.4     0.5     0.0    15.5         0.0     0.3     0.2     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.6
6. CONSUMABLE MATERIALS               0.9     9.3    13.8    13.8   12.2       5.3   55.4         0.0     0.3     0.5     0.5     0.4      0.2    2.0
H. ENTERPRISE-BASED TRAINING         0.8    19.5   46.1    47.9    36.7    12.3  163.3            0.0     0.7     1.6     1.7     1.3     0.4     5.8
......................... ................................    .........................................................        
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               8.2   199.6  332.7  280.2   182.9   68.2  1071.7             0.3     7.1    11.9   10.0      6.5     2.4   38.3
=33====33=3=33=3~e=333===_===~~==s3s3                         3333--=====       3==========3 D-3=33333
II. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. OPERATION & MAINTENANCE            0.0    18.4   19.2   18.4    15.6        9.3   80.9         0.0     0.7    0.7      0.7     0.6      0.3     2.9
S. STAFF SALARIES                     0.0     3.2     3.5     3.9     4.3     2.3   17.1          0.0     0.1     0.1     0.1     0.2     0.1      0.6
.........................................................    .. ........................................................
Total RECURRENT COSTS                0.0    21.6    22.7   22.3    19.9    11.6   98.1            0.0     0.8     0.8     0.8     0.7     0.4     3.5
*Z==_____==-==_== =                          3= =3=           -===r===  =33z                    s
Total PROJECT COSTS                   8.2   221.1   355.4  302.5   202.8   79.8  1169.8           0.3     7.9    12.7    10.8     7.2     2.9   41.8
........ .....................................................................................................................................  ..................................................................................
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 5/1/1992 15:38.
IQ
x
0
4X



- 56 -                               ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 14
PHILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Summary of Technical Assistance Component
Manmonths
A. Consultancy Services
International Experts
Management Specialists                                    54
Technical (nontraining)                                   77
Technical (training)                                       9
Total                                            140
Local Experts
Management specialists                                    50
Technical (nontraining)                                  187
Technical (training)                                     240
Total                                            477
B. Fellowships and Training
Foreign Fellowships                     Fellows            Manmonths
Management                            26                  58
Technical (nontraining)               95                 239
Technical (training)                  23                  25
Total                       144                  322
Local Training
Management                           175               1,300
Technical (nontraining)              240               3,294
Technical (training)                 360               2,161
Total                      775               6.755
C. Enterprise-Based Training
Under NMYC's Training Assistance Contract (TAC) and Training Contract
Scheme (TCS) about 150,000 industrial workers will receive training during the
duration of the project.



- 57 --                             ANNE3X 8
Page 2 of 14
HILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
UOCRTIONRL TRRINING PROJECT 11
TECHNICRL RSSISTRNCE SCHEDULE
COMPONENT        MRN - MONTHS                          YERP
1          Z           3                       5
FOREIGN
FELLOWSHIP
322     E4       59                                    S1
LOECL TRRINING
6155    496       N114       1606          1531         1111
LOERL EXPERTS                     ------_----
411    118        152       53            59           35
FOREIZN EXPERTS                 -_ -_        -_------------___
140    25         36        25            31           23



- 58 -                                      ANNEX  8
Page 3 of 14
PHILIPZINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Draft Tezms of Reference
Consultant                                     Function/*                                 Expected Output/s
Strengtheninh Institutional
Calpacitv
1    Project Evaluation               -    Assess/review program                      -    Mid-term and End-term
Consultant                            implementation under the VTP II                 Evaluation Report of
VTP II
-    Provide recoamendations with
regards to VTP II objectives,
programs, and implemented system.
2.   HRD Specialist                   -    Conducts study/review of present           -    corporate human
manpower complement and                        resource developymnt
requirements                                   plan
-    Develops a corporate human resource
plan
Mannoe r Plannint Policy and
Coordination
1.   Labor Market and                 -    Provides systematic manpower               -    manpower statistical
Manpower Development                  research and information bases for              standards
Expert                                better and up-to-date understanding
of the country's manpower                 -    manpower researchers
situation,                                     and policy development
documentation
-    Provides acceptable manpower
statistical standards and concepts        -    action plan for the
appropriate for the manpower                   development of manpower
information and statistics                     research and
available at hand.                             information bases
-    Provides technical assistance in          -    establishment of long-
the documentation of manpower                  term arrangements with
researches and policy development,             research and
statistical agencies
-    Formulates action plan for the
development of manpower research          -    recommendation re:
and information bases.                         training needs
-    Assists in the assessment and             -    micro-needs assessment
analysis of manpower research                  institutional
needs, specifically on the labor                arrangements
market information and
occupation/job contents                   -    recommendation of
information,                                   training designs,
curriculum designs
-    Assists in the establishment long-
term arrangements with pertinent          -    operationalization of
research and statistical agencies.             the action plan
-    Assists manpower planning staff who       -    reccemendations re:
have undergone fellowship/training              training needs of
to take over the planning tasks                Council's manpower
left by the consultants hired                  planning staff.
during Phase I.



- 59 -                                          ANNEX
Page 4 of i4
Consultant                                     Function/c                                 Zxpected Output/u
Provides recoomendations on the           -    fromwork for the
training needs of the Council's                improvement of
manpower plnnoers.                             Council's institutional
arrangento.
Assists in the conduot of                 -    assessment of training
camprehensive mioro-need assessment            neods of Council's
of Council's institutional capa-               mAnpower planning and
bility for wmnpower planning and               development staff
polioymaking to holp implement the
project aotivities partioularly
during Phsoe I.
Reocemendc training design,               -    conduct of seminars and
curriculum design and other                    discussion form on
substantive inputs in the                      manpower planning end
preparation and solootion of                   policymaking
training programs for manpower
develop staff.
Assists manpower planning staff in        -    action plan for the
the operationalization of the                  project's first phaJe
action plan.
Provides recocmendations on tho           -    policy direotion  of
tracing needs of the Council's                 Council's manpower
manpower planning staff,                       development  nd
policyMaking
Works hand in hand with the other
consultants for th smooth
oporationaliuation of the project.
Provides framework for the
improvement of the efficiency of
the Council's institutional
arrangements
Assists in the assessment of the
training needs of the Council's
manpower development and pl annins
staff.
Provides technical assistance in
the adoption and operationalisation
of workable framework acceptable to
the Council members.
Oversees the conduct of sminars
and discussion form on manpower
planning and policymnking.
Assists manpower planning staff who
have undergone followship/training
to take over the planning tasks
left by consultant hired during
Phase I.
Formulates action plan for the
first phase of the project.
Assists in the fornulation of
policy directions of the Council as
manpower development and
policymaking agency.



ANNEX 8
- 60-                                               Page 5 of 14
Consultant                                      Funotion/s                                 Expeoted Outeut/e
Rational Nannre r Infor_ tion
1.   System  Devolopment              -    Shall design, develop and implement         -    Test Item Banking
Consultant                             a computorised Test Item Bank                   System
2.   Syste_  Development              -    Shell manage end convort the MICRO-         -    Bibliqgraphic
Consultant                             II8 software to run in a UNIX-DOS              Information System
environent.                                     (INFODOS)
National Skills Certification
I    Systems Devolop .nt              -    Assists in the assesment  nd                -    Systems development
Consultnt                              ioplemntation on systems                        plan for ntionwide
applicable to NMKCs certification               cerliftoation progrem
progrm.
Curilulx and Trainina
Materials Develorment
1.   Curriculum Training              -    Assists in the
material Development                   developsent/adaptation of
Export                                 competency-based
currioulum/training materials.
2.   Currioulum Training               -    Assists in the evaluation of now           -      valuation report on
Haterial Evaluation                    ourriLulm/training materials via-               new curriculum training
Export                                 a-vis offectivenesa/efficiency                  materiels
UMoradina of Ixistina
FaeLities
1.   Equipment Specialist             -    Assists in the proparation of               -      quipLent/toole
tools/equipment specifLcations for              spoeificatioLs
existing UfCs/DfPTCs
2.   Computor-Dased Buildlng           -    Assists in tho design/developmnt           -    Conter-Mintenanoe
Haintenanceo  xport                    of systems for existing                         System
=ffCs/IMTCs.
Secto Study and Feasibility
Studies for Advane d ond
Sector Snecific Trainin
V SV  Info Systems                    -    Assists in the development of               -    Info systme design
Developmet Expert                      information systems
2.   44r nood/Sootor tpecific          -    Assists in the development of              -    Info system design
PDvelopment Expert                     inforation systems.
-    Info systm design



ANNEX 8
- 61-
Page 6 of 14
Consultant                                       Funetion/s                                  Expocted Output/s
Strenrthenint Institutional
calpacitv
1.   HRD Spcialists                   -    Conducts study/review of present            -    corporate human
manpower complement and                          resource development
requirements                                     plan
2.   Training Management               -     Identity strategie development             -    about 500-700 personnel
Consultant                             programs for Agency personnel                    to be trained
-    Conduct training programs to Agency
personnel
Mannower Planning. Policv and
Coordination
1.   Labor Market AnalYst
e xpertise in the areas                -    Provides systematic manpower                -    manpower statistical
of information systems                 research and information bases for               standards.
analysis, database                     better and up-to-date understanding
analysis and computer                  of the country's manpower                  -    manpower researches and
progr-aing.                            situation,                                       policy development
documentation
Provides acceptable manpower               -    action plan for the
statistical standards and concepts               development of manpower
appropriate for the manpower                     research and informa-
information and statistics                       tion bases
available at hand.
Provides technical assistance in           -     establishment of long-
the documentation of manpower                    term arrangements with
researches and policy development,               research and statis-
tical agencies
Formulates action plan for the             -    recommendation re:
development of manpower research                 training needs
and information bases
Assists in the assessment and
analysis of manpower research
needs, specifically on the labor
market information and
occupational/Job contents
information.
Assists in the establishment of
long-term arrangements with
pertinent research and statistical
agencies.



ANNEX 8
- 62 -
Page 7 of 14
Consultant                                       Function/e                                  Expected Output/a
-    Assists manpower planning staff who
have undergone fellowship/training
to take over the planning tasks
left by the consultant hired during
Phase I.
-    Provides recommendationa on the
training needs of the Council's
manpower planners.
z.   Vocational Education -gi
Trainina Exuert
expertise in vocational          -    Assists in the conduct of                   -    micro-needs assessment
education and training;                comprehensive micro-need assessment              institutional arrange-
exposure to vocational                 of Council's institutional capa-                 ments
education end training                 bility for manpower planing end
systems of NICs and                    policymaking to help implement the         -    recommendation of
other industrialized                   project activities patticularly                  training designs,
countries,                             during Phase I.                                  curriculum designs
-    Recommends training design,
curriculum design and other                -    operationalisation of
substantive inputs in the                        the action plan
preparation and selection of
training programs for manpower             -    recommendations re:
development staff.                               training needs of
Council's manpower
planning staff.
Assists manpower planning staff in
the operalionalization of the
action plan
-    Provides zecommendations on the
training needs of the Council's
manpower planning staff
-    Works hand in hand with the other
consultants for the smooth
operationalization of the project.
3.  Mannower Develoyment
ExDert
experienced in the field         -    Provides framework for the                  -     framework for the
of manpower planning and               improvement of the efficiency of                 improvement of
development; familiar                  the Council institutional                        Council's institutional
with the organizational                arrangsm&ats                                     arrangements
s*t-up of the Council;
expertise in managing            -    Assists in the assessment of the            -     assessment of training
and financing aspects of               tracing noeds of the Council's                   needs of Council's
the projects.                          manpower development and planning                manpower planning and
staff                                            development staff



-63-                                                  ANNEX 8
Page 8 ot 14
Consultant                                       Function/s                                  Expected Output/r
-    Provides technical assistance in            -    conduct of seminars and
the adoption and operationaliration              discussion form on
of workable framework acceptable to              manpower planning and
tho Council members.                             policymaking
-    Overseos tho conduct of seminars            -     action plan for the
and discussion form on mnpower                   project's first phase
planning and policymaking
-    Assists manpower planning staff who         -    policy directions of
have undergone fellowship/tracing                Councils manpower
to take over the planning tasks                  development and
left by consultant hired during                  policymaking
Phase I
-    Formulates action plan for the
first phaso of the proect.
-    Assists in the formulation of
policy directions of the Council as
manpower development and policy-
making agency.
National Manpower Information
1.   Managing                          -    Assists in the implementation of            -    NMYC Computerization
Consultant/Projoct                     the project, as well as supervise                Project
Advicor                                the systms development
consultants.
-    Assists in finalirins the
Hardware/Softwaro specs end its
selection and acquisition
-    Assists in defining the agency s
computer application standards as
well as development standards
2.   Systems Development               -    Shall design, develop end implement         -    Systems to be
Consultant                             the identified application systems               developed:
-    Personnel HIS
-    Finance MIS
-    Property MIS
-    Records MIS
-    Skills Dev.
-    Training Inst.
Directory
-    Occupational Info
Systm
-    Manpower Dev.
Monitoring for
Council Member
Agencies
-    Regional Profile
-    Labor Market
Information



- 64 -                                                  ANNEX 8
Page 9 of 14
Consultant                                       Function/s                                  Expected Output/s
3.   Communications Network            -    Shall design and establish a most           -    IMNC Computer
Consultant                             feasiblo comunioations network for               Coomunication Network
the Agency
National Skillg Certification
Frosrra
1.   Systems Development               -    Conducts regional survey/evaluation         -    Impact Evaluation
Consultant (Consultancy                of the existing certification                    Poport on National
firm)                                  program                                          Skills Certification
2.   TSS and TT Development            -    Shall develop and implement trade           -    25 TSS and TT materials
Expert                                 sills standards and trade test                   developed and revised
materials.
Curriculum and Training
Materials Development
1.   Financial Consultant              -    Designs and initially assists in            -    cost recovery
the implementation of cost recovery              schemes/guidelines for
*cheme from doveloped training                   training materials
materials
Trainors Devoloument Proaram           -    Conducts needs study of all                 -     comprehensive report on
trainers                                         needs analysis of NMYC
1.   Needs Analyst on Trainor                                                                 Trainors
Development                      -    Conducts trainor development
programs for IVTD staff
-    Prepares a comprehensive report on
needs assessment of NMYC trainors
2.   Trainors Training Design          -    Designs trainors training programs          -     1 not of trainers
Expert                                 for 1NC trainora                                 tracing program
-    Provides necessary inputs for IVTD          -     1 manual on tracing
Program Designers                                program designing
-    Prepares a mnual on practical
program designing
3.   Consultant in Incentives          -    Assists in the development of               -     1 study on trainer
Schemes                                trainor incentive schemes                        incentives
-    Develops blueprint of incentives            -     1 master plan for
plan for NMYC trainers                           specific incentive
schemes for NMYC
-    Recomnands strategies on trainer                  trainors
retention and motivation
4.   Program Evaluation                -    Designs evaluation instrument to            -    1 set of evaluation
Expert                                 assess VTP II developed and                      instruments
implemented trainers progr ams
-    Provides inputs in reprogrining             -     1 set of guidelines for
implemented trainers progrms                     evaluating VTP II
program
-    1 set of guidelines for
apprenticeship program



ANNEX 8
- 65 -                                          Page 10 of 14
Consultant                                       Funotion/c                                  Expected Output/s
5.   Apprenticeship Program            -    Assist IVTD staff in the
Expert                                 development of Apprenticeship
Program Schemes
-    Recommends implementing guidelines
appropriate for industry and
technical *ducation institute
6.   Program Design Expert             -    Designs programs appropriate for
technical vocational trainers
7.   Trainer Certification             -    Provides assistance/guidance to             -    manual on trainor
and Accreditation Expert               staff in certification program                   Certification
-    Establishes system of pilot-testing         -    1 set of testing
certification programs                           instrument
-    Designs test instruments for                -    manual on designing a
certification system                             certification systm
8.   Research and Development          -    Conducts a comprehensive survey of          -     1 comprehensive data-
Consultant                             21 TEIs                                          oriented report on the
state of trainor
-    Establish a classification system                 certifications of
for TEI-trainorc                                 accreditation in the
Philippines
-    Evaluates the present certification
system for TEI-trainorc
9.   Training Evaluation               -    Designs an evaluation scheme                -     1 evaluation
Expert                                 specific to IVTD/NMYC's needs                    design/schem  for
trainor certification
and accreditation
-    Assists in the conduct of
evaluation of the trainor                  -    evaluation report in
certification and accreditation                  certification and
program for KMYC trainers.                       certifi-progrem



ANNEX 8
- 66 -
Page  11 of 14
Consultant                                     Function/u                                 Expected Output/z
Guidance and Emnlovment
Services
1.   Media Linkages Expert            -    Develops strategies of promoting           -    promotion/diessmination
and disseminating guidance and                 strategies
placement progrs -
2.   Systems Development              -    Evaluztes existing and plaocemnt           -    Rcomaendation to
Program                                ystin and reco.nends specific                  enhanob guidance
strueture of guidance and plaement             prograrm/projects
progrin
3.   Materials Development            -    Designs training progr am                  -    Upgraded capabilUties
Expert                                acceptable to guidancoe                         of 70 staff in the
practitioners/implementors                     delivery of guidaneo
and placement services
-    Conducts training programs for RHKC
guidance staff
A.   Behavioral Science               -    Provides technical assistance in           -    Upgraded capabilities
Expert                                the design of studies/researches                of 70 staff in the
related to guidaneo and placement              delivery of guidance
and plcement services
Center Technical and
Maenrment Audit
1.   Evaluation Expert of             -    Conducts a review of the first year        -    study in the
Vocational Training                   of CTM  implementation and make                 institutionalization of
Institute                             recomendation and rationalize its               CTM&
institutionalization
2.   Vocational Training
Management Consultant
-    with experience in               -    Develops institutional                     -    approved and validated
vocational/technical                  benchoarks/guidelines in the                    institutional
training center                       implementation of the CTMP                      benchmarks/guidelines
administration which
includes personnel.             -    Assesses the pilot Implementation          -    assessment report end
training, financial and               of the new system and provide                   recommndations
evaluation                            necessary recommendations of
improving the Implementation of now
COM& system



-67 -                                             AANNEX 8
Page  12  of 14
Consultant                                       Punction/s                                  Expected Output/u
Unaradint of Zxisting
Facilities
1.   Industry Expert                   -    Determines physical requirements of         -    upgraded/standard
PJRTCs/RPMCs to be upgraded such as              physical requirements
facilities. equipment and tools
Training Assistinoe Contrct
1.   Skills Standard, Trade            -    Assists in the development of               -    trade standards, tests
Test and Certification                 skills standards, trade test,                    certificaiton systm
Cons.                                  Certification system                             and databank of
training resources
2.   Curriculum Training               -    Assists in the identification of
Expert                                 training resources for on-and-off-
the-job training
3.   Apprenticeship Progrm             -    Designs and installs a monitoring           -    standardized cost
Consultant                             system for the Apprenticeship                    schme
Program
-    Develops standard cost program of           -    new delivery end
training                                         multiple-leovl traini,g
schemes
-    Designs alternatiave and multiple
apprenticeship delivery schemes
Trainint Delivery - Informal
Sector
1.   Program Evaluation                -    Reviews/assesses project design,            -    Report on findings and
Specialist                             strategy/approachCes), activities                relevant
and management                                   recommendations/inputs
for policy redirection
-    Conducts evaluation of the impact           -     In-house briefing
of training program conducted on
the employability and productivity
of trainee-graduates
-    Formulates recommendations on the
future design and direction of the
project delivery ystem
2.   Technology Transfer               -    Conduct research/study on the               -    Report on training and
Specialist                             region's resource base and identify              appropriate technology
small-scale nontraditional products              study for each region
that could be generated
-    Discusses the need of skills
training for small-scale production
of the identified nontraditional
products by analysing the following
aspects: organisation. demand,
marketing capitalization



- 68 -
ANNEX 8
Fage 13 of 14
Consultant                                     Function/a                                 Expected Output/s
-    Recommends and indications on
mployment potential and suitable
localities
3.   Credit and Rural Skills          -    Conducts study on existing credit          -    Report on Credit end
specialist                            schmes and modalities in the                    Rural Skills Training
region which aims to serve                     Study for each region
livelihood activities and
micro/cottsag industries
-    Reviews actual experiences of such
programs/schemes in reaching the
rural areas and supporting the
promotion of mployment creation
and in income generation.
-    Recommends witb regards to the
issue of the provision of credit
for graduates of NMYC commumity-
based skills training courses
4.   Marketing and                    -    Conducts study on tried and                -    Report on Marketing and
Distribution Specialist               existing marketing end distribution             distribution study for
schems and modalities employed by              each region
small and cottage products
producers in the region
-    Reviews government end NGO
initiatives to assist small lend
cottage industries in the region in
the areas of marketing end
distribution and the extent to
which these have helped them
-    Recommends with regards to tho
issue of marketing and distribution
assistance for micro/small and
cottage entrepreneurs
5.   Training Materials               -    Develops learning and training             -    Tralning end learning
Development Specialist                packages for newly-identified                   packages
courss
Sector Sud
1.   TVE Policy Consultant            -    ProvLdes technical assistance to           -    Report on Review of
2.   TVE Planning Consultant                the project staff in the                       policies on TVE
3.   TVE Econ/Financing                     substudies/background papers to be
Consultant                           prepare                                    -    Policy paper on TVZ
4.   TVE Technical and
Managemnt Consultant            -    Assists In the finalization and
5.   TVE Training Consultant                presentation of reports
-    Provides training to project staff



- 69 -                                           ANNEX 8
Page 14 of 14
Consultant                                    Functlon/s                                Expected Output/s
-    TVE strategy and
Investment plan
-    Report an review TYE
financing
-    Review of role private
TIc
-    Review of mYE progr m
nd objectives
-    Report on review of
Technical Teacher
Education
Feasibility Seud,
-    Provides technical assistance            -    advance/sectoral
1.   Adv/Sec Spec Policy                  particularly in the advanco/                   reports on tochnical
Consultant                           s*ctoral policy. planning,                    and *mangement aspects
2.   Adv/Seo Spec Planning                 finanring, management and economic
Consultant                           aspects                                  -    advance/sec spec
3.   Adv/Sec Spec SEon/Fin                                                               strategy and Investment
Consultant                     -    Assists in the finalisation and                plan
4.   Adv/Sc Spec Tech 6                   presentation of reports
Management Consultant                                                         -    report on review of
5.   Adv/Sc Spec Training            -    Provldes training to project staff             Industry adv/sec sp c
Consultant                                                                         training
-    reviewing of role of
Industry training



- 70 -                                   ANNEX  9
Pago 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Inolementation Schodule
FY IDA                         1993            1994            1|   1996                        1997        1998
CY/FY PHIL              1992           1993             1994            1995            1996             1997
1. I'STITUTIUIAL DEV.
Staff DCv. &
Training Plan                                _
- Org. Strengtheniflg
* consultants
.  training                      I-
- National Manpower
info. Syst.
* consuttants                               3
. training
equpmentsec
*equipmesnttedr
*equipment prc.
*equipment install
- Strengthen MNowemr
PoLlcy Pleming
* consultants                       - - - -
. trainfng --
2. INPUE TMU.GMLITY
* isprove Mat. Skills
Cart. Prog.
* cronultants
* training
- Strength.Trainer Dfv.
* training
* consultants
- lImproving Cur. & Mat.
*training
*consuLtants
*equipment specs.
o* eupment proc.
*equipment instatl
$ePtee  199                                                                       June  197



-71 -                                        AQW!1Iof 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
liwlementation Schedule
FY IDA                        1993            1994           1995           1996             1997        1998
CY/FY PHIL             19             19               19             1995           1996             1997
.             _~~~~ 2 -3   4 _  -2 -3   4   _    2  3   4   _  -2   3  4   _   2  3  4   _  -2    3  _
- Strenghen Guidance
and Placement
* trainfng
i   co. sulta.nts
- Nonitoring Evat.
 training
i consl ttants
* Iq2rove Cost Rec.
 training
 consultants
3. TUAININD CAPACITY
- Upgrading exist. fae.
* design & tender
construction
* eupment se.
*equipment tede
* eqipment proc.
*equipment instat.
- Expand  .d. Sased T_ng
.trng.contr.D 3c1em                                    
* trng. assst. con.--
garment ind.trng.                                                                       
program
* enter. based trrg.                                   -- 
program
* apprentceashfP
trafning
- Trainfng for Rurat
Into. See.
 commity trafnfng--
. entrepreneurship                         -
. women in new trades--
3. STIIES
plan and timetabte
*isplementtion
Loan 11facSfyoness ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     1. 99



- 72 -                                bN.x 10
Page I of 2
PHILPPINES
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule and Profile
Disbursement                    Disbursement       Semesters
IDA                                 _   Cumulative   Profile (%)         from
Fiscal Year      Semester   Cumulative      am % of    Asia Region       Approval
and Semester    ----(US $ million)---        Total       Education         Date
1993
1st               0.3         0.3         0.8%             0%              1
2nd               3.3         3.6          10%             3%              2
1994
lot               3.4         7.0          19%             6%              3
2nd               5.5        12.5          35%             6%              4
1995
lot               5.5        18.0          50%            14%              5
2nd               4.7        22.7          63%            22%              6
1996
lst               4.7        27.4          76%            34%              7
2nd               3.1        30.5          85%            46%              8
1997
lst               3.1        33.6          93%            58%              9
2nd               1.2        34.8          97%            70%             10
1998
1st               1.2        36.0         100%            74%             11
2nd                                                       82%             12
1999
lst                                                       90%             13
2nd                                                       94%             14
2000
1st                                                       98%             15
2nd                                                      100%             16
Closing Date: December 31, 1997.



C4
ii 
0
N
0
~~~~.             .   .  .......    ..      . .     :.  ::t
* 
..........              .....  .....0 a
-  --: - .St.: ,,.-                                  4.
4-
F~~~~                                                      ~~~~ .  *               .                     _      
C . ..............    ..................                       e.. .
O           . .....   ,.                                        ,     ,J
F                ;                                    ~~~~~~~*    *  .                   *           .Er -    _t 5
40                                    . *-----.-   . ... .   ... .,.        _                     L .
A                                                                                  t~* 
'                                   va                                   .......,%                      X ...........,.......
I      r F                                                                      ----.   .            ...... N  ,.        \    ..K   
CN   F  C             f                                     -.            t               . \              "  O    o     P~~~~~~~4. 0~~
>                                      C3                                               ''IL +                                      t
6                                          ,.        .'             >       ,      \      N ~     ~    ~~*  U
m                                                                   ........           .....          .............
.                      .     .....                         + ; . 0
cn                                  $4                         ~~~~~~~~~~~......  ...            ....       ... .... - --e   
c .....................            ......         .      .. V            c
in~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
.                    .......
40   ...................                          0.
ii       ' .    '        )    '     4      ,    !



74 -                                   ANNMX I1
PHILIPPINES
SJECOND VOCAIONA TRANING2 PROJECT
Su2ervision Plan
Project Year    No. of Mission   Duration                 Composition
1               3           2 wks. each   Technical Bduc. Specialist
Architect/Procurement Spec.
2               2           2 wks. each   Toch. Fduc. Specialist
Architect/Procurement Spec.
Institutional Dev. Specialist
3               2           2 wks. each   Tech. Bduc. Specialist
Institutional Dev. Specialimt
4               2           2 wks. each   Tech. Educ. Specialist
Management and Finance Spec.
5               2           2 wks. each   Tech. Educ. Specialist
Management and Finance Spec.



- 75 -AMX 12
SECON2 VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.     Minutes of Council Meeting, October 25, 1990, Office of the Secretary,
Department of Labor and Employment, Intramuron, Manila (Meeting of the
"Council" of the National Manpower and Youth Council to discuus the
draft Vocational and Technical Education and Training: Towards a
Long-Term Policy for the Subeector - Draft of July 27, 1990.
2.     Republic of the Philippines HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, Quezon City,
Third Regular Session. House Bill No. 29712 by Congressman Teves and
Padilla - Explanatory Note and draft version bill 29712.
3.     Republic of the Philippines HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, Quezon City,
Fourth Regular Session. House Bill No. 33981.
4.     Secondary VTE in the Philippines Annotated Data Tables, R. Noonan,
Inter Science Research Corp., 1990-11-02.
5.     Philippines, Second Vocational Training Project, Working Papers, July
1991.
6.  _aking Education Work - An Acenda for Reform.
Congress of the Republic of the Philippines, Manila, 1991
7.     Vocational Education and Trainina:  Towards a Lona-Term-Policy for the
Subsector, NMYC Secretariat, Manila July 27, 1990
8.     Memo of Agreement, DECS and NYMC, Manila, August 1991.
9.     Action for EnterDrise, NMYC, 1991.



CHART I
NATIONAL NAPER AND YOUTN COihCIL
ORCIZATIOUL CHART
1991 TO PRESENT
|COUNCIL|CO    ffc   f h  DrctrGeea
DODD   FOR TRNG     ODDG FOR SEC POL*
CLUISTER*         &DEV. CLUSTER
NGODs    OTHER   INDUS-   VOC..                         , 
PVOs   AGOVT.N  TRY       TECH.T
IE[S                                                ERE
--  I        ~~ODG  office of the Dfrector General
_                J  CTUs   |         ~~~~~~~ODDG  Office of the Deputy Director General
ADG Assistant Director General
IOMSD  Office of Manpower Skills Development
AB Administrative Branch
OMPC Office of Manpower Planning & Coordination
FB Finance Branch
TSIB Technical Services
OINI Office of Industry Manpower & Incentives
IVTD Institute of Vocational Training & Dev.
RO Regional Offices
RNTC  Regional Manpower Training Center
NTD Manpower Training Division
ATP Apprenticeship Training Program
PCED Planning, Coordination & Evaluation Div.
TSGD Technical Services & Guidance Division
AD Administrative Division
PO  Provincial Office
* New Offices                                             PNTC  Provincial Manpower Training Center
*' To be Transferred                                        PPS  Policy & Program Staff
**  From Dole to NYC                                         CTU  Community Training Unit



IBRD 23477R
11                                   120                                   *4                                    I W
CIASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                                                             P H I L I P P I N  E S
5Y GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS                                                        SECOND VOCATIONAL
130,1407              TRAINING PROJECT
I LOCOS           VI WEIbN%ISAAS                               10
20-     1 11ocooNorb        38 Aibn                                                                                            2e
2  eor. Sur        39 Capiz                                                            REGIONAL MANPOWER AND
3 La Union          40 Antiqu                                                             TRAINING CENTERS (RMC)
* I'agacsirne       #I nOilo                          ao r1E                               RJIG   ETR   RTw
CAR  OIOlRgUEtDMNIOSTATn    42 Negros Occidel                                                  PROVINCIAL MANPOWER AND
R   IONAINICS  J     43 Gt cios                                                    A       TRAINING CENTERS (PMTC2)
5 Ab          Vll CENIMALVSAYAS
6 KalingaAp%o       44 Cebu                               oNAoNAL CAPITAL
7 Weurnain Prominc.  45 'NWe oio.olv
8 fugao             46 "old
9 B"uow             47 Siquror                                                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
11 C&6AYANVALLEY   Vill E^NSAYAS                                                           PN
I0 Boson.            48 NolhwrnSrmw r                                                   REGION BOUNDARIES
1 1 CoMn             49 Ww%mSorm                     Ro
12 hobela            50 EashmSmrn                 '         ffour  ara o
13 NwvVocaKa         51 14                          l  Tobuk                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
14 Quirino           52 Soul%ml. Iyb 
III CENT1RLUZON          53 N,SWn
15 NuewEcija    IX WESTNWdNDANAO                     _7       n
l6TarIac             54ZomboangadelNorto                IGo  n
17 ZrnSbaIOres       55 ZamboongrblSur Son p,,n,.                            IOLaA 7TI   o           2 00        300
18 Pampangn          56 llo*ion
19Ibbon              57 Sulu                f           13  14                    MIW  o      ao
1  20 Sulocon           58 Twwwie.             )1-                                                                         16Ls  o 10  0 2
M7* NAL,o'JCAMt&    X  NORrHW4  NDkN                 4
PEGION INCIII        59 Surigoc d Norl.
IV  soUTi4NTAOALO        60 Conigun1     
21 Aurora            61 Agun nW Nod.  IbL
22 Ciuzon            62 M.meio Orienial    lb.                    LU ZO0N
23 Ricd              63 "igris occide. *                 '9I
24 Coyis,            64 BukWdnon
25 laguna            65 Augrnd bSur                             'PHIIPPINE SEA
26 Batangas     Xi SOUITH9MINMN#                                                              LPN  S
27 Morinaduqu        66 Surigood,lSur      6'.J n
28 Mindoro Ot,rftl   67 Douo Orien   b Ta u     WrI;   21                        V
29 MindoroObccidenal  68 DewodW Noel.                7      oneb
30 Ronbion           69 DoddS del \u"                   Q                             bCATANDUES
31 Palawan           70 South Cutaobto                       rug..            N-  
V   COL            XII CENRILIMINVANAO                                                    --4*
32 Comarin" Norie    71 lan*o del Nol.&                         I,   \
33 Conrtrnos Sur     72 lonaoddSw SY                                              A \
34 Cmrbanduonw       73 NorlhCollto"\                     1    <\2  
35 Albw              74 Mounoo                  IV Ir9
36 Sw10fon           75 Sulbln Kudarot      AMINDORO       Jl
1. 37 Wosbat.
SOUh/ CHINA                                                                                                      12|
PAIAWANI4
(-'I'                ~~~VISAYA
_>,7                         NE>ROSt jC onNEGROS
ens ///
PtILUPPINES
SULU             Coiobs- Sc-N
- Mhgut m ee c/mp by e 7cr  #*mmn orocoJwam c/madesimmo,sodn
t"009ffi;s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e=f r'# r w                                                    Os
-  1 7, 4><   'P                        MR I   19
MARCH 1992



