Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20376-PH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(23920)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 36.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR THE
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
MAY I5, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ClJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 31, 1991)
Currency Unit = Philippines Peso (P)
P1 = USS 0.036
US$ 1.00 = P28
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            Asian Development Bank
CTMD           Curricula and Training Materials Development
DACUM          Developing a Curriculum method - DACUM
DBM            Department of Budget and Management
DCA            Development Credit Agreeement
EDCOM          Congressional Commission on Education
GES            Guidance and Employment Services
LGUs           Local Government Units
METP           Monitoring and Evaluation for Training Performance
MPPC           Manpower Platning and Coordination
MTR            Mid-Term Review
NGO            Non-Government Organization
NMIS           National Manpower Inforrnation System
NMYC           National Manpower and Youth Council
NSCP           National Skills Certification Program
PMU            Project Management Unit
POS            Peoples Organizations
PSALM          Policy Oriented Sector-Focused Area-Based Labor Market Driven Approach
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SIC            Strengthening Institutional Capacities
SS             Sector Studies
TAC            Training Assistance Contract
TCS            De-yeloping the rraining Cointract Scheme
TDIS           Training Delivery System for the Infornal Sector
TDP            Trainer Development Program
TESDA          Technical Edcuation and Skills Development Authority
TVET           Technical and Vocational Education and Training
UEFE           Upgrading of Existing Facilities and Equipment
VTI            Vocational Training Institute
VTP II         Second Vocational Training Project
Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Vinay K. Bhargava
Sector Manager/Director:    Alan Ruby
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Ompom Regel



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     7
6. Sustainability                                                                         8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       10
9. Partner Comments                                                                      11
10. Additional Information                                                               22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    34
This document has a restricted distinbution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witou
World Bank authorizaon.






Project ID: P004538                                       Project Name: SECOND VOCATIONAL TR
Team Leader: Omporn Regel                                 TL Unit: EASHD
1CR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date. May 15, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: SECOND VOCATIONAL TR                           L/C/TF Number: 23920
Country/Department: PHILIPPINES                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: EV - Vocational Education & Training
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/10/89                                 Effective:                    12/11/92
Appraisal:  04/05/91                                  MTR:                       02/03/97
Approval:  06/18/92                                Closing:  12/31/97            12/31/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Government of the Philippines/NMYC - National Manpower and Youth Council
(92-94); TESDA - Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (95-99)
Other Partners: None
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Guatum Kaji
Country Manager:     Vinay K. Bhargava                          Callisto Madavo
Sector Manager:      Alan Ruby                                  Bradley 0. Babson
Team Leader at ICR:   Omporn Regel
ICR Primary Author:   William Cooper
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The projectfs development objectives were to: (a) strengthen institutional capacities in policy fonnulation,
planning, management, research and evaluation of non-formal vocational training and employment services;- (b)
improve training quality and cost recovery; (c) upgrade training facilities; and (d) develop an investment strategy
and identify investment needs for technical education and vocational training. Embedded in these objectives were



social targets including gender and poverty concerns and private sector contributions to training.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained unchanged and the design was not formally modified. However, the scope of
some project components was expanded (in some cases significantly) as a result of the 1994/95 transfer of
responsibility for project management from the National Manpower and Youth Council (NMYC) to the newly
created Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA). A major consequence of this change
was an increase in the institutional development program (in particular the size and outreach of the NMIS) to
support TESDA's responsibility for both formal and non-formal training. The establishment of TESDA in 1994
with a broadened mandate included the transfer of over 100 TVET programs in technical secondary schools to its
jurisdiction. This, in turn required major adjustments in the focus of the project to accommodate the needs of this
formal sector of TVET. Also, new initiatives evolved over time, such as entrepreneurship programs and rural
sector manpower development which the project supported. These initiatives were consistent with the project's
development objectives and were accommodated within the existing design as described in the Development Credit
Agreement.
The credit agreement was amended twice: (i) in September 1994, to establish a Special Account of US$
2.0 million; and (ii) in July 1995, to finance the upgrading an additional training center.
The Closing Date was extended twice, in 1997 and 1998, respectively. The first one-year extension was
necessary because the Government reorganized the NMYC (the original implementing agency) into the more
comprehensive TESDA. As a result, project implementation was delayed. The second extension was important to
enable TESDA to respond to the financial crisis by supporting sustainable programs and support services aimed at
providing employment creation and entrepreneurship opportunities for unemployed youth, displaced workers and
women. These programs and services were consistent with the original project objectives and description but the
activities carried out focused on the impact of the crisis.
3.3 Original Components:
Four investment programs supported the project's main objectives, as follows:
Program I - Institutional Development: (i) strengthening institutional capacity through a program of
management development (SIC); (ii) establishing market-oriented capacities for manpower policy,
planning and coordination (MPPC); (iii) developing and installing a national manpower information
system (NMIS); and (iv) conducting sector and pre-investment studies (SS).
Program 2 - Improvement of Training Quality: (i) improving the national skills certification program
(NSCP); (ii) strengthening the trainer development program (TDP); (iii) supporting curricula and training
materials development (CTMD); (iv) strengthening vocational guidance and employment services (GES);
and (v) monitoring and evaluation of training performance (METP).
Program 3 - Development of Training Capacity: (i) upgrading of existing facilities and equipment
(UEFE); (ii) developing the training assistance contract program (TAC); iii) developing the training
contract scheme (TCS); and (iv) expanding training delivery systems for the informal sector (TDIS).
Program 4 - Studies: aiming at defining strategy and investment plan and establishment of sectoral
information to rationalize and improve technical and vocational education and training system; and
determining the feasibility of establishing sector specific and advanced technology training centers.
Assessment of Project Objectives and Design: Development objectives supported the Government's 1991 policy
on manpower development and were in line with the 1991 World Bank policy paper on Vocational and Technical
Education and Training. Objectives were very broadly stated and unfortunately not expressed in terms of
- 2 -



output/outcome indicators (an abbreviated set of outcome indicators was developed after the 1997 mid-term review,
and an impact evaluation study was added in 1998). With respect to design, the project was too complex, too
ambitious, and seriously challenged the management capacity of the implementation agency. The large number of
consultants used and the wide scope of the institutional development program contributed to implementation delays
and necessitated a first two-year extension of the closing date. The second one-year closing date extension was
granted in 1998 to redeploy funds to enable TESDA to respond to the financial crisis by supporting sustainable
programs and support services aimed at providing employment creation and entrepreneurship opportunities for
unemployed youth, displaced workers and women. These programs and services were within the original project
objective and description but the activities were focused on the impact of the financial crisis.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Not available.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project achieved its development objectives and is expected to maintain them after the project is
closed. The justification for this assessment is based on (i) satisfactory project outputs, as summarized below; (ii)
sustained Government commitment throughout project implementation; (iii) good private sector participation in
technical and vocational education and training (TVET) activities; and (iv) an effective implementation agency.
Based on these factors, the overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Program I - Institutional Development (ID)
The scope of the ID program as implemented was considerably larger than that originally designed for
NMYC, and supported all TESDA operations, offices and staff. The ID program was complex and not easy to
organize and manage.  Initially ad-hoc, staff development programs became structured in 1995 when a
comprehensive training program was adopted. The NMIS was expanded from the original design. Its successful
implementation is a major accomplishment of the ID program. The outcome of the ID program is rated as fully
satisfactory.
fa) Strengthening Institutional Capacity (SIC): Designed to train about 300 NMYC operational staff (SAR target),
the component was expanded to meet TESDA's manpower needs of about 2,000 persons at central, regional and
provincial levels, as well as private sector partners. Initially slowed down by the NMYC/TESDA transition, the
project eventually trained or upgraded over 10,000 TESDA staff which exceeded by far the SAR target of 300 (ref.
Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators). SCI program offerings contributed significantly to satisfying TESDA's
needs to upgrade the technical knowledge and skills of its personnel. A systematic monitoring and evaluation
mechanism was developed and is now fully functional. The component's objective of strengthening institutional
capacity has been fully met.
(b) Manpower Policy, Planning and Coordination (MPPC): This component was adjusted to strengthen TESDA's
capacity for manpower policy development and planning, data analysis and system coordination. At project
completion, the following was achieved: (i) a manpower planning system (the Policy Oriented Sector-Focused
Area-Based Labor Market Driven approach - PSALM approach) was put in place; (ii) a reliable manpower data
bases for planning and investment priorities were established; (iii) approximately 900 Technical Education and
Skills Development Committee members at the regional and provincial levels were trained in management,
-3 -



investment programming and strategic planing; and iv) more than 2,000 TESDA staff and staff of public and
private training institutions were trained, mostly through short-duration seminars. The focus of training was
broad-based and included manpower-planning concepts; policy formulation; labor market analysis, cost-benefit
analysis, finance and budget review; and TEVT system development and operation. Collaboration with other
government agencies and the private sector was strengthened through this component. A consultancy by an ILO
expert was effective in developing a workable policy planning framework.
(c) National Manpower Information System (NMIS): The final NMIS design was expanded from the original
limited concept of a manpower data base serving NMYC, to an integrated information system serving TESDA's
requirements for the administrative management of the TEVT system and for data collection and dissemination on
TEVT programs and operations.  It has been installed and tested, and currently links TESDA's Manila
headquarters with 15 regional offices (a decision to include provincial offices was taken only in late 1998,
contributing to the second extension of the project closing date). About 90% of total TESDA personnel received IT
training. The NMIS is networked with associated agencies such as the Commission on Audits and the Department
of Labor. About 2,500 system users throughout the TESDA network have been trained. Data encoding is still
ongoing and the system is expected to be fully on stream in early 2000. TESDA's website is fully operational.
Factors that might hinder the realization of bringing the system fully on stream in early 2000 include: i) Lack of
coherent support from agencies such as the National Computer Center, the Commission On Audit and the
Department of Budget and Management; ii) The absence of guidelines for the implementation of the proposed
TESDA reforms for middle level education and training (UTPRAS and TOQCS); and iii) inadequate support from
end-users.
Program 2 - Improvement of Training Quality
This program has been implemented as originally designed, with only minor changes in scope or content.
The overall outcome of this program is satisfactory.
(a) National Skills Certification Program (NSCP).: This program has: (i) published 240 occupational trade
categories; (ii) set skills standards for more than 270 occupational titles; (iii) set up and accredited 15 skills testing
centers; (iv) trained over 5,000 trade testing officers in TESDA and industry, and accredited 2,500 of them; and (v)
tested over 340,000 workers and certified about 200,000 of them.  With respect to NSCP, achievement is
impressive as shown by: improved attitude of workers and employers towards the certification program, improved
capability of central/regional program implementors and industry partners to carry out skills certification program,
and the development of quality and quantity skills standards.  At project completion, the NSCP was fully
institutionalized within TESDA and is expected to continue as a regular program activity.
(b) Trainer Development Program (TDP): Designed to improve the quality of vocational instructors (trainers), the
TDP has successfully: (i) conducted an inventory of vocational trainers and set up a data base; (ii) developed job
standards and trainer training programs; and (iii) conducted skills upgrading training for about 14,000 trainers
which absorbed most of the resources allocated for this component. Responsibility for trainer training has been
fully decentralized to the regional TESDA offices and guidelines for course offerings to address regional market
needs have been developed. The TDP is fully integrated within the TEVT system and is expected to be sustained
as a regular TESDA activity.
(c) Curriculum and Training Materials Development (CTMD): The original objective of this component was
revised and limited to the production or adaptation of curricula for about 20 vocational training programs.
Existing curricula and course materials for seven generic programs have been reviewed and updated; nine dualized
programs (combining in-school and in-plant training) have been developed; and training regulations have been
issued for five industrial sectors. The component provided for upgrading and maintenance of CTMD equipment to
improve production capacity, and the adoption or development of additional curricula and training materials. In
addition, CTMD staff has been trained in curriculum development (Developing a Curriculum method - DACUM).
This output covers only a relatively small portion of the total requirement of curriculum and materials development
and CTMD activities will need to be continued beyond the project through outsourcing the development of the
courses to commercial providers.  Adequate institutional capacity (facilities, equipment and staff) has been
- 4 -



established and the focus has shifted to materials development and production in line with the objective of this
component.
(d) Guidance and Employment Services (GES). This program has been successfully implemented. Its main
outputs include: (i) established 15 Placement Assistance Centers; (ii) developed and disseminated high quality
guidance support materials which involved the provision of career information, career planning, employment
search and guidance for successful technical and vocational careers; (iii) effectively trained about 2,400 staff of
regional and provincial training centers in advocacy promotion and guidance services; (iv) assisted some 200,000
TEVT graduates with job placement, referral or further training; (v) established an awards program for TEVT
graduates; (vi) established a " work ethics and values" training program to train GES facilitators in TESDA's
regional and provincial centers; and (vii) published "Blue Collar Magazine" and its dissemination to TESDA's
regional and provincial offices.
(e) Monitoring and Evaluation of Training Performance (METP): A system-wide monitoring and evaluation
instrument has been developed and linked to the NMIS. The program is designed to be institutionalized within
technical-vocational education and training schools and training centers, both private and public. The METP was
in its initial stage in 1999. Since then, the instrument has been revised and guidelines prepared and disseminated
to TESDA's 15 regional offices for implementation. So far, only six regions have implemented and provided the
Central Office with data. Follow up with the remaining regions is being carried out. Objectives of this program
have been partially achieved due to: i) the limited capacity of TESDA's regional and provincial staff to conduct
the METP activities as a result of TESDA's recent reorganization; ii) absence of the system for statistical analysis
of data because NMIS which provides the backbone of METP is not yet fully operational; and iii) the relative
complexity and comprehensiveness of the METP framework developed by consultants.
Program 3 - Development of Training Capacity
This program was slightly modified from its original version to make a clear distinction between
programs to develop the training capacities of post-secondary vocational institutes (TAC) and those supporting
enterprise-based training programs (TCS). The outcome of the training capacity-building program is satisfactory.
(a) Upgrading of Existing Facilities and Equipment (UEFE): This component was implemented with only minor
changes from the original plan. The physical facilities of 28 regional and provincial training centers were
rehabilitated and/or extended and upgraded with workshop equipment, tools, vehicles and furniture. In addition,
the national training center in Manila was upgraded and its capacity expanded. A comprehensive maintenance
program for TEVT facilities has been developed and installed in the TESDA centers. The facilities upgrading
program has been satisfactorily completed.
(b) Training Assistance Contract Scheme (TA:C) This component was designed to assist in developing the training
capacities of public and private vocational training institutions (VTI). The program focused on upgrading the
skills of almost 13,000 VTI-based technical/vocational trainers, supervisors, administrators, and non-academic
support staff. Generally, skills upgrading programs consisted of short-duration training sessions (1-6 weeks).
Leadership in technical education was also developed through post-graduate studies in local universities for senior
VTI staff. This program has been highly successful and is considered one of the better-implemented examples of
capacity building in the region. However, its measurable impact on the training capacity build-up is uncertain.
(c) Training Contract Scheme (TCS): The objective of this program was to strengthen the capacity of small and
medium enterprises to undertake employee training on their own. The success of TCS was partly attributed to the
fact that the program was recasted within the context of a more comprehensive Industry Capability Build Up
Program (ICBP), which is industry-led and addresses the needs of 15 export growth sectors. Under the project, the
TCS has addressed the manpower development needs identified in the ICBP, the export development plans of the
Department of Trade and Industry and the technology development plans of the Department of Science and
Technology. The TCS has supported enterprise-based training through staff and program development; has
strengthened the dual training system (enterprise/training institution), and has trained over 20,000 industry-based
trainers. The Industry Board (IB) representatives endorsed TESDA's TCS program which has had a very positive
- 5-



impact on improving the productivity of workers in the various sectors. A consensus emerged that cooperative
initiatives between the enterprise, labor, training providers and TESDA was imperative for the establishment of
sector-specific training centers. The IB representatives emphasized that the TCS should continue to be an
important "window" for enhancing the training capacity of the centers. This program is considered highly
successful and is well received by industry.
(d) Training Delivery System for the Informal Sector (TDIS): This component was not implemented as originally
planned but was redefined to: (i) institutionalizing community-based programs; (ii) developing the capacity of the
LGUs to design, deliver and monitor training programs; (iii) develop a national network of Community Training
and Employment Coordinators CTECs; and (iv) define a framework through which LGUs, NGOs and GOs can
share and coordinate their responsibilities in promoting grass roots employment and economic revenue generating
initiatives. It focused on the need for livelihood, basic skills and entrepreneurship training of women,
out-of-school youth and under-employed and unemployed adults. It was rated among the most successful TESDA
programs during the 1997 Mid-Term Review. The TDIS was extended with an added focus on community-based
training and (micro) enterprise development (CBTED) in response to the 1997-98 Asian crisis and Government's "
pro-poor pro-market" stance. The National Training and Development Center for Women also refocused its
training programs to support this thrust. CBTED is designed to encourage and support grass-roots generated
proposals leading to enterprise formation with the involvement and co-operation of Local Government Units
(LGUs), non-government agencies (NGOs), Peoples Organizations (POS) and business and other organizations.
Specific accomplishments include over 1,200 LGUs provided with funds for equipment; outreach training courses
for regional staff and about 50 NGOS, and an extensive and on-going series of training and motivational programs
for more than 1,600 Community Training and Employment Coordinators (CTECs). Nineteen enterprise-creating
pilot programs selected from over 150 locally generated proposals were successfully implemented by the closing
date. These programs demonstrated a high initial success rate and long-term sustainability. TESDA intends this
to be one of its integrated core activities.
Program 4 - Studies (SS)
A series of sector studies were conducted beginning with: i) the preparation of implementing rules and
regulations of TESDA; ii) the preparation of background papers on the Philippines TVET system (1994); iii)
transfer of responsibility for industrial skills development from the government to the private sector (1995); iv) a
study on the economic feasibility of industrial branch specific training facilities and advanced training centers
(1995); v) a study on the role of industry boards in TESDA (1996); vi) an integrative study (1998); vii) a TVET
financing study (1998); viii) a TVET sector review (1998); (ix) a review of TESDA Act and other relevant laws
(1998); x) a transparency and internal control study (1998); xi) a study on overseas employment and its impact on
technical education and skills development (1999); and (xii) an evaluation of VTP 11 (1999). The studies were of
high quality and the output of this component exceeds original objectives.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Net Present Value was not worked out in the SAR, therefore it cannot be calculated at the completion of
the project.
4.4 Financial rate of return.
As in 4.3
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Because of the complexity of the project, the assessment of the project's impact on TESDA is relatively
difficult. The initiatives under subcomponent I (institutional development) have had the highest impact on
TESDA. There is strong evidence that this subcomponent has strengthened TESDA's capacity for manpower
policy formulation, as well as for the planning, coordination, delivery and monitoring of TESDA's services. In all
- 6 -



the provinces surveyed, the regional and provincial training centers were actively providing a wide range of
TESDA-supported services to industry.
In the second subcomponent (improvement of training quality and cost recovery) however, evidence of the
impact of the project is mixed. While TESDA's guidance and employment services appear to be generally well
received by workers and employers, there appears to be a lack of employers' acceptance of the benefits of the
TESDA-endorsed skills certification of workers, limited adoption of TESDA-developed curricula and training
materials, and lack of evidence of the benefits and impact of training of trainers' programs.
The impact of the training capacity development initiatives (in subcomponent 3) is positive. TESDA's
capacity for the development and management of skills programs in enterprises as well as in the informal sector
have been strengthened and improved as a result of the project. There is no evidence, however, that TESDA has
been successful in affecting improvement in the delivery of technical education and skills development by private
service providers.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Stagnant economy: The project was negatively affected by the stagnant economy during the early years of
implementation (1993-1995) which in particular constrained the Government's ability to provide counterpart
funding and slow employment creation, constraining the placement record of graduates from the training centers.
In addition, the Asian Financial Crisis in 1997-98 further impacted on the Government's already difficult financial
position and led to across-the-board reductions in budget allocations for most departments (including TESDA) and
a slowdown in most project activities. To catch up on these delays and help achieve the project's development
objectives, the Bank agreed to extend the project closing date by two years.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Implementation delays due to:
- delays in ratification of the Credit Agreement as a result of the national election which led to a
six-month delay in project effectiveness.
- the reorganization transition from NMYC to TESDA (1994-95). This transition was prompted by the
recommendations of the Congressional Education Commission (EDCOM) in 1994 to establish TESDA
with a mandate to cover TVET programs in all three sectors: formal, nonfonnal and informal. TESDA
control over the curricula and programs of technical secondary schools (and technical programs in some
general secondary schools) in the formal sector has contributed to the prolonged confusion about its
mission and culture during the transition period.
Cash flow problems due to low level of budgetary allotments and slow release of project funds by the
Department of Budget and Management (DBM). This problem was partly resolved through the
establishment of the Special Account in the amount of US$2.0 million in 1994.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Procurement delays.  Implementation was delayed by about two years as a result of cumbersome
procedures especially for consultant contracts; delays in preparing or approving specifications; and
re-tendering.
Limited implementation capacity. Project activities ran in parallel with other ongoing TESDA programs
that strained existing staff, causing delays.
- 7 -



Financial management: Accounting problems, including claims for reimbursement of tax components;
unfunded liabilities; delays in audit report submissions
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Despite some delays during the start-up phase resulting from: i) rigidities in the budget process, ii) the
lack of a Special Account in the original project design, and iii) slow progress on components with which NMYC
was unfamiliar, namely institutional strengthening, policy studies and long-term training, the project was
successfully completed. There was no cost overrun. Audit reports, including separate opinions on SOEs, were
submitted throughout the implementation period. Other covenants were in full compliance.
Disbursement were satisfactory, although there were disbursement lags throughout the implementation
period due partly to the delays mentioned above and the relatively slow processing of large procurement packages.
The total actual disbursements were XDR 24,396,450.96 or about 96 percent of the original credit amount. The
amount of credit cancellation was XDR 2,003,549.04 or about 7 percent of the original credit amount.
6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Prospects for sustaining the project's outcomes are likely. At the policy level, the Government remains
strongly committed to the promotion and development of high-quality technical and vocational training, in full
partnership with employers.  Successful initiatives supported under the project, such as in-plant training,
community-based programs in entrepreneurship and special programs for women are expected to be vigorously
pursued under upcoming projects, with earmarked funding from Government resources. At the institutional level,
TESDA and its regional offices, under strong leadership, have acquired the technical capacity to efficiently
implement sector investments while assuring the quality and relevance of its programs. The NMIS, installed under
the project, will be a particularly effective tool for TESDA to support the future development of the TVET sector.
Notwithstanding the positive factors mentioned above, there are a number of risks that could affect the
sustainability of TESDA activities in the future. These include: the possibility that TESDA would receive low
levels of yearly budgetary allotments from DOF for its operations and a slow release of funds by the DBM. It must
also be noted that there is a continuing need for rigorous procurement and financial management. This is likely to
happen, at least in the medium term, because donors are continuing to fund projects through TESDA and these
functions will remain in place. However, in the long termn, procurement and financial management issue may
become a limiting factor for the sustainability of this effort.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most programs supported by the project are fully integrated activities within the TESDA structure and are
expected to continue without any special provisions (other than budget allocations).  It is expected that
responsibility for operating and managing training institutions will increasingly be transferred to the regional
TESDA offices, and to the private sector, with TESDA focusing on policies, development strategy and quality
assurance. This is a positive move which is fully in line with the recommendations of the Education Sector Study
conducted jointly by the ADB and the Bank in 1999. Furthermore, this will further strengthen the TVET system
and help sustain the project's achievements.
An impact evaluation study was added to the project. The results of this study were consolidated to
improve existing monitoring and evaluation mechanisms and to make them a more permanent feature of the TVET
system.
-8 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Identification was based on good economic and sector work. The main elements of project design also
took account of lessons learned under the first Vocational Training Project. Project development was consistent
with the Government's TVET sector policies and in line with the Bank's policy paper on TVET. Preparation and
appraisal teams were adequately staffed and appraisal was thorough and comprehensive. But the appraisal team
over-estimated the Borrower's implementation capacity and produced a project that was too complex, too
ambitious, and severely strained the capacities of the implementation agency. Design shortcomings include the
absence of a special account that delayed payments to contractors (this was corrected in 1994 through a
Development Credit Agreement amendment) and the lack of perfonnance indicators that made project tracking
difficult (indicators were eventually added after the 1997 Mid-Terrn Review).
7.2 Supervision:
Implementation progress was adequately reported and project performance realistically rated. Problems
were correctly identified and promptly addressed, and covenants were strictly enforced. Staff gave significant
advice and showed considerable flexibility in solving implementation problems, including a reduction in the
recovery rate of the advance to the special account at the end of project implementation to lessen shortage of funds
and to ensure successful completion of project activities. Supervision missions, at six-month intervals, were
generally adequately staffed but in the early years of implementation did not include financial expertise. This was
corrected in 1997 when the Resident Mission Manila assigned procurement and finance officers to work with
supervision missions and assist the Borrower in these areas after mission departure. On balance, more frequent
supervision and more attention to project finance and procurement, particularly during project start-up, would have
reduced implementation delays. The only significant deviation from Bank policies concemed Credit disbursements
for taxes that were erroneously included in withdrawal applications. This was corrected and the Bank has been
fully reimbursed. Despite the high turnover of task managers, supervision was of consistently high quality and the
good working relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was not affected, and therefore there was no
adverse effect on the development outcomes of the project . The mid-term review was conducted, with excellent
input from the Borrower.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower (NMYC) participated actively in project identification, preparation and design and made
significant contribution to the soundness of its concept and scope.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government was (and remains) strongly committed to TVET sector development, as evidenced by the
adoption of its basic training policy prepared under the auspices of NEDA (1991). This commitment was
reinforced by the creation (1994) of a separate agency (TESDA) responsible for all formal and non-formal
technical and vocational education, and the presidential appointment of its director-general. Provision of project
funds by the DBM was occasionally delayed, particularly at the end of the budget cycle. There is no evidence of
direct Government intervention in operational decisions.
-9-



7.6 Implementing Agency:
The NMYC/TESDA transition in 1994/95 slowed implementation as adjustments were made in some
project components and TESDA geared up to handle its responsibilities.  In retrospect, these delays were
unavoidable.  There were weaknesses in procurement (inadequate bid document preparation, cumbersome
procurement procedures) and financial management (treatment of taxes, reconciliation of project accounts). Audit
reports prepared by the Commission on Audit (some of them qualified) confirmed these shortcomings. These
weaknesses were effectively addressed during implementation.  However, additional procurement, financial
management and audits will continue to require attention by TESDA management beyond the life of this project.
Despite some initial delays in project implementation mainly due to the time needed during the start up
phase to set up the necessary systems and procedures, the management and coordination of this complex project,
involving a large number of institutions and a wide range of activities, was well handled by TESDA/PMU.
Procurement of equipment was achieved as scheduled, following Bank Procurement Guidelines. TESDA was
timely in its submission of the seventeen progress reports during the entire period of July 1992 and October 1999,
providing the necessary data base for effective Bank supervision missions. The objective of the project have been
fully met and all components have been well implemented. Contribution to the ICR was fully satisfactory.
Moreover, cooperation with Bank missions during the whole project cycle was commendable. Based on these
positive achievements, TESDA has proven to be an effective implementation agency, with strong leadership and
committed staff at all levels. Overall, performance of the implementing agency - NMYC (1992-94), TESDA
( 1995-99) - was satisfactory.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance.
Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Key lessons learned from this project are:
Assessing Project Outcomes. As with many projects of that era, this was an input-oriented operation that
did not lend itself easily to the assessment of improvements in the quality and relevance of vocational training. A
future operation should establish a Performance Management Framework to provide early and continuous
assessment of both outcomes and impact of the project on all stakeholders. This should include evaluations to
measure the effect of investments in capacity building, improved training facilities and better-trained staff, and the
cost effectiveness of public sector training.
Clarity of Project Implementation Procedures. It is important that project implementation norms and
procedures be fully understood and accepted by local authorities at the time of project preparation, and that project
management staff be fully trained at the outset to properly apply administrative and financial management
procedures, including procurement and disbursement. No specific provision was made in this project to strengthen
financial management and procurement functions and supervision missions did not focus, at least in the first 3 or 4
years, on capacity building in these areas. In future operations, special care should be taken during project
preparation and appraisal to include measures to strengthen these functions within the project design.
Project Design. The project design was complex, with fourteen separate components, and led to many
unavoidable implementation delays. The design of future projects should be straightforward to ensure successful
implementation. Emphasis should also be placed on careful assessment of experience and capacity of the
implementing agency and capacity building measures should be fully in place at an initial stage of implementation.
The Mid-Term review for this project was successfully carried out and allowed opportunity for corrective actions to
be taken during the second phase of implementation.
Role of the Resident Mission. The effectiveness of supervision improved when Resident Mission staff
- 10-



were assigned to support project implementation, not only during supervision but more importantly as an ongoing
activity. This was particularly helpful in the finance and procurement areas but could be usefully extended to the
more substantive aspects of a project as, in this case, technical education and vocational training.
Training Relevance. The training activities for TESDA personned funded under the project should be
more focused and targeted to capability building based on career development plans. Greater effort should also be
placed on the demand-driven approach in designing skills upgrading programs. Closer collaboration/linkages
between TESDA and the private sector could lead to effective development of occupational skills standards and
competency assessment instruments.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
I. INTRODUCTION
This Report is intended as a GOP submission to complement the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) being prepared by the World Bank in connection with the Second Vocational Training Project (IDA Credit
No. 2392 PH).
The main contribution of this Report lies in the greater amount of detail and attention given to the
analysis of institutional factors that hampered the smooth implementation of the project. Likewise, this Report
indicates the institutional learning that the various sub-component focal teams have gained in regard to the design,
implementation and management of a project of this nature and scope.
II. BACKGROUND OF THE PROJECT
In response to the perennial problems of unemployment and underemployment in the Philippines, the
government through TESDA developed and implemented the Second Vocational Training Project (VTP II) from
I  December 1992 to 31 December 1999 with a US$36.0 Million financial assistance from the World Bank and
GOP counterpart of US $5.8 Million. Its objectives were translated into the following major components and
sub-components.
SUB-COMPONENTS                 GENERAL OBJECTIVES                       COST
(based on SAR)                    (in US$M)
Strengthen capabilities in policy
formulation, planning and
Institutional Development       management of non-formal                       11.4
vocational training and employment.
a. Strengthening Institutional  Enhancing capability of TESDA to                2.6
Capacity (SIC)               manage and administer Secretariat
functions
b. Manpower Policy, Planning and  Enhancing capability of TESDA                 6.4
Coordination (MPPC)          member agencies on manpower
policy, planning and coordination
c. National Manpower Information  Enhancing capability of TESDA on              2,4
System (NMIS)                the development and establishment
of computer network-based
information system
Strengthen training support services
Improvement of Training Quality  and develop mechanisms towards                 8.8
& Cost Recovery                 equitable cost sharing and training
cost recovery.
-I11-.



a. National Skills Certification  Enhancing the                               2.4
Program  (NSCP)             promotion/installation of a national
certification program
b. Curriculum and Training      Enhancing capability of curriculum            l.9
Materials Development (CTMD) and training materials development
c. Trainers Development Program   Enhancing evolvement and                    3.4
(TDP)                        implementation of trainers
development plan; establishment of
Area Trainers Training Centers; and
institutionalization! licensing scheme
for trainers
d. Guidance and Employment      Enhancing vocational guidance and             1.0
Service (GES)               placement system
e. Monitoring and Evaluation    Enhancing training center                     0.1
Training Program (METP)      management and operations
SUB-COMPONENTS               GENERAL OBJECTIVES                       COST
(based on SAR)                    (in USSM)
Improve facilities and programs for
Training Capacity Development non-formal vocational education and           23.1
training by upgrading TESDA
training centers; providing
incentives for the private sector to
assume greater role in skill
development; improving
apprenticeship program; and
supporting rural skills and livelihood
training program for women as well
as unemployment and out-of-school
youth.
a. Upgrading Existing Facilities    Upgrading of RMTCs and PMTCs             10.5
and Equipment (UEFE)        facilities and the National Skills
Training Center to produce 2nd and
3rd class levels of skilled manpower
b. Training Contract Scheme (TCS) Enhancing capabilities of industries        1.2
to undertake training
c. Training Assistance Contract    Enhancing capabilities of VTls to          3.8
(TAC)                        deliver relevant voc-tech programs
d. Training Delivery System for the Establishing training and delivery        4.7
Rural Informal Sector (TDIS)    system in the rural areas which shall
be devolved to the LGUs.
d.I Community-based Training and Enhancing support for the                    2.9
Enterprise Development       development and implementation of
(CBTED)                      regional micro-enterprise pilot
projects thru training and related
___support services
- 12 -



Define strategy and investment plans
Studies            and establish sectoral information             0.7
to rationalize and improve technical
and vocational education and
training system; and determine the
feasibility of establishing sector
specific and advanced technology
training centers.
a. Sector Studies (SS)          Enhancing the conduct of sub-sector            0.7
studies/feasibility works on TVE and
training programs for the
establishment of advanced and
sector-specific training centers
Crosscutting Concerns                                                    1.0
a. Women Economic Empowerment Enhancing empowerment of poor                    0.3
(WEE)                        and displaced women workers thru
center/region based training,
counseling and services leading to
employment.                     _
b. Project Management Unit (PMU) Enhancing the capability of the               0.7
Secretariat to better manage VTP 11
implementation
It is noted that the Project was originally scheduled for completion in 1997 but was extended in 1998 and
finally restructured in 1999. When VTP 11 was restructured, however, it was expanded to cover a crosscutting
concern on gender sensitivity. Hence, the sub-component Women Economic Empowerment (WEE) was born
together with the implementation of an off-shoot of the original TDIS, the Community-based Training and
enterprise Development (CBTED). These were the central focal sub-components under the Restructured VTP II.
111. ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT
A. OVERALL PERFORMANCE
In general, VTP II implementation has been rated by the World Bank as "Satisfactory".
The Bank's rating of "Satisfactory" was concurred by the NPCTs. Based on individual perspectives,
NPCTs gave the project an average Project Achievement Rating of "Satisfactory" with a numerical equivalent of
3.67 (using a scale of 1-5 with 5 as Highly Satisfactory).
A separate rating was likewise done by the NPCTs on Project Performance for which the average rating
was "Satisfactory" with a numerical equivalent of 3.34 (using a Scale of 1-4 with 4 a Highly Likely/Highly
Satisfactory).
The Financial Performance of the Project was likewise rated as "Satisfactory" with the Bank, particularly
its Country Mission, extending significant level of assistance, notably on the procedures of procurement and
disbursement of goods and services. During the World Bank's periodic appraisal, input indicates clear cooperative
efforts from the review mission members who are equipped with consistently high quality of supervision. For the
Borrower, an indication of strong, active participation and contribution from the various national project
component teams (NPCTs) and project support units (PSUs) was noted dovetailing the guidance, integrative and
coordinative capability of the project implementing office.
- 13 -



On the Project Cost Component, the percentage of appraisal is indicated at a 90.33% utilization level with
the high factor attributed to the Institutional Development component. For the Project Cost by Procurement
Arrangement, the level is in the vicinity of US $30.47 million incurred from major deliveries of goods and services
by the last remaining years of the project. This is 27% below the appraisal estimate (or US $41.80 million).
On Project Financing by Component, the loan amount and the government counterpart had utilization
levels of 86.06% and 99.71% respectively. The three (3) major contributory components consisted of Institutional
Development, Development of Training Capacity and Improvement of Training Quality. There is a difference of
US $5.02 million or (14%) between the Bank's appraisal estimate and actual/latest estimate. It should be noted
that as of this reporting date, financial reconciliation is being undertaken by TESDA and that the above figures
may change.
B. NPCT OUTPUT/ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND IMPACT
The "Satisfactory" rating given by the various NPCTs reflects their realization that more could have been
done for the Project. Also, some outputs were not in accordance with the desired outcomes/key indicators specified
in the SAR. Following are the major output/accomplishments of the various NPCTs and the impact of these output.
SUB-COMPONENT MAJOR OUTPUT/ACCOMPLISHMENT                                 IMPACT
(1992-1999)
SIC          * Trained 10,376 personnel (including    Rate of attrition improved from 18%-20%
overseas)                          to 6%; mobility rate improved from 12%
* Developed DACUM/job analysis for staff to 52%; impact evidence strong
positions
o  Developed framework of SIC Plan
MPPC          * Trained 6,373 TESDA employees and   Strengthened capability on manpower
TESD local stakeholders            policy, formulation, planning and
*  Developed PSALM manual, ROs        coordination; more responsive policies
database, RIPPs and PIPPs and TESD    and plans; impact evidence strong
capability building
* Established 165 RTESDCs/PTESDCs
* Prepared training cost-outcome analysis
manual
NMIS          *  Established TESDA LAN and WAN:   Could not yet provide much information
CO-80%, ROs-70% and POs-36%        vital to policy formulation and decision
*  Developed MIS (system design) - 98%   making; some evidence of impact
* Trained IT: 1,265 graduates (Stage 1);
20 IS coordinators (stage 2) and 175 AS
(Stage 3)
* Completed 1999 data encoding: mission
critical 96%, admin system - 85% and
RO - 20%
- 14 -



NSCP           *  Trained 485 competency-based         TESDA certificates regarded by workers
developers; 280 coaches/experts; 35  as achievement in itself; however,
COs/ROs staff on workers guilds; 4,906  employers do not necessarily prefer
PTT officers; 471 STT officers and 969  TESDA certified workers over
OSS develop. :s; 2,487 PTTOs, 15     non-certified; some evidence of impact
RTESDCs/PTESDCs/ public and private
VTls
*  Accredited 28 testing venues
*  Established 35 workers guilds
*  Published 240 occupational trades
*  Developed/revised 270 OSS
*  Tested 342 workers
*  Certified 195,359 workers
SUB-COMPONENT    MAJOR OUTPUT/ACCOMPLISHMENT                                         IMPACT
(1992-1999)
CTMD               *  Trained 124 facilitators, trainers and     R/PTESDCs are using TESDA curricula
developers and 146 technical staff         in their training programs; however,
*  Printedl000 pieces TRS and 7,000 copies for   most TVET providers including TESDA
35 occupational titles; distributed 1,500  supervised schools are using
copies of TRs                              self-designed curricula and training
*  Reviewed/updated 7 generic courses         materials; some TVET providers ate
*  Developed QSS standards for Maritime       using minimum TRs course
sector; TRS (76 occupations) and 640       requirement; some evidence of impact
learning guides (16 occupations)
* Converted developed curricula/training
materials into CD ROM (7 generic trades)
* Dualized 25 curricula occupations
* Established training resource center
(TRAMCEN)
* Procured various hardware equipment,
softwares and books/resource materials
TDP               *  Developed module for teachers/trainers under   Most graduates/trained workers believed
dual approach; trainer job standard;       that trainers were very knowledgeable;
guidelines for course offering based on skills    number of trade test passers among
priorities; and trainer program            TESDA-trained workers TESDA
implementation framework                   supervised schools/private VTls
*  Included TVET teachers category in the     remained low; little evidence of impact
Metro Bank search for best teachers
* Trained and skills upgraded 13,591 trainers
and administrators
* Established trainer database
* Completed studies on Trainer Population of
the Philippine Association of Private
Technical Institution (PAPTI); and on
Establishment of Trainer Development
Academy
- 15 -



GES              *  Launched/conducted in 1997 the search for  Most RIPTESDC s and TVET providers
PRMOFWA; achieved 83% and 100% for        have guidance and employment services
regional and national categories respectively   in place, however, average placement,
* Updated/repackaged career materials       job referral and OJT rate is 24.4% only;
* Promoted skills thru subscription and      monitoring of graduates is very minimal
dissemination of Blue Collar Magazine
(380,050 copies from 1993-1998); career
guidance materials (18,425 copies from
1997-1998); and promoted non-traditional
trades thru Oras ng Kababaihan (TV
program)
* Trained 3,394 participants from TVET
sector; LGUs and industry sectors
* Provided clients with career guidance -
490,980; placement - 96,542; job referrals -
125,291; and OJTs - 25,201
* Completed study of the guidance placement
system of NMYC
* Procured LCD Display Unit
METP              * Prepared/disseminated among 15 ROs M&E    Only 6 regions furnished data on
TVET system manual                        METP; all TVET providers, except for
few TESDCs have yet to undertake
METP; little evidence of impact
UEFE              * Procured ICB 11 and III and books/resource  14 RMTCs, 13 PMTCs and 2 NITVET
materials and delivery 100% completion    centers now conducting skills training
*  Rehabilitated/upgraded/expanded physical  in high value added manufacturing and
facilities of 28 RMTCs, PMTCs and 2       services; has enabled TESDA to catch
NITVET centers, 100% completion           up on training capacity; strong evidence
*  Developed national maintenance of VTs     of impact
facilities and equipment, TEMMS, disk and
operators manual/instructions
SUB-COMPONENT    OUTPUT/ACCOMPLISHMENT                                     IMPACT
(1992-1999)
TCS          * Assisted 100 focal organizations, 7   148 firms conducting training of own
industry boards and 41 industry     workers and subsidizing 30% of training
associations                        cost; regional industry boards and
* Trained 20,259 trainers              associations had taken over a significant
part of training functions; strong evidence
of impact
TAC          * Trained in various skills and non- skills  Various skills and non-skills upgrading
upgrading 12,592 tech-voc teachers;  programs effected 55% of total number of
effected 1.5% decrease in unemployment formal TVET teachers; training capability
rate per student-graduates of TAC   build-up of TVET providers could not be
beneficiary teachers                determined
- 16-



TDIS          *  Printed and disseminated 3,865 copies of Created enabling environment and
CTECs directory                     awakened entrepreneurial spirit; initiated
*  Procured books and resource materials   LGUs and NGOs involvement in
worth P572,000                      community-based enterprise development
*  Completed CTECs impact evaluation   programs; strong evidence of impact
* Trained in TPPMCBT 104 regional
officers, staff, 260 participants from POs,
SHGs and TVET schools, 47 PESO
managers, 53 NGOs and 1,611 CTECs;
17 TDIS implementors in UNDP DCTP,
I NPCT member in micro-enterprise and
30 CTECs for ARMM; 30 pax attended
TRUGA and 595 CTECs in enskilling
CBTED          * Operationalized CBTED guidelines and  No impact yet
PWGs (69)
* Availed local consultancy services for
documentation of best practices, MEFs
and M&E of IEDP and SZOPAD-MNLF
* Conducted enskilling courses (18 in 14
ROs) at 30 pax
* Conducted 2 national conferences for
CBTED regional focal persons and
SCCPD-TESDA Joint Consultative
* Conducted experts meetings; national
consultancies on distance training,
system methodologies and devolution
Assisted in the form of skills training -
19 Regional and 78 provincial models, 24
SZOPAD-MNLF CBTED projects and
ZONTA
* Provided common service
facilities/equipment for 19 regional
models and 24 SZOPAD-MNLF CBTED
projects
WEE           *  Trained 100 pax in skills and       Impact is yet to be determined
empowerment and 1,500 pax in
entrepreneurship
* Completed situational ana!ysis study
PMU           *  Completed Staff development in project  Anchored VTP II completion smoothly
implementation (2 courses)
*  Conducted superviion various phases of
project implementation
* Procured equipment and consultancy
services for smooth project
implementation
PSU          *  Availed staff development (FISFAP),    Services provided inadequate
equipment and consultancy services
* Monitored fund utilization
C. LESSONS LEARNED
One of the major lessons learned is the need for performance indicators in the Project design. VTP 11 had
these indicators only in 1997. Moreover, a project logical framework, identification of outcomes and benchmarking
- 17 -



would have greatly assisted project planning and implementation. The NPCTs have likewise identified invaluable
lessons which they have learned in the course of project implementation. They have likewise identified possible
action points for each issue/concern so that management and implementation of future projects could be improved.
These are as follows:
ISSUES/CONCERNS                                    RECOMMENDATIONS
1. General/Project Management
a. Absorptive capacity of National and          *  Mix co-location & contractuals for program implementation
Regional Component Team                         and coordination arrangement, respectively
* Manpower needs reviewed vis-a-vis regular and special
project assignments
b. Efficiency/effectiveness of                  *  Co-location for program implementation
co-location arrangement                      *  Contractuals for administrative/finance support coordination
* Team composition maintained
c. Fast tumover of staff and                    *  Continuity and familiarity in project management
managers                                    *  Effecting appropriate work turnover plan
d. Unclear roles across implementing units      *  Role delineations among PMU and PlUs in Executive
Offices, Regional Offices
e. Perceived over-centralization of authorities in  *  Delegation of authority
ODG (1992-1998)                              *  Responsibility coupled with authority and accountability
* Approved framework at project start
2. Monitoring/Evaluation
a. Lack of performance indicators               *  Output indicators defined at project start
in 1992
b. METP not adopted                             *  Simplified built-in M&E with clear outcomes
* Motivation required for adoption
* Integration between METP and NMIS
3. Financial
a. VTP II perceived to be financier rather than  *  Proper orientation of project implementors and beneficiaries
catalyst or partner of reform
b. Unclear mix of regular and loan              *  Clearer delineation of funds use:
funds for regular operations                *  Fund 101 - regular operations
* Fund 102 - institutional development
c. Delayed access to financial                  *  Strengthen FISFAP for use by decision-makers
information by management
- 18 -



d. Delayed fund reconciliation                  *  Reconciliation starts by 2nd year of implementation
* Closer collaboration between IA and COA
* Agreements to be set on government/ commercial accounting
requirements
e. Problems on tax/withdrawal                   *  Periodic WB/GOP staff training
Application
f. Inadequate financial management              *  Separate loan management unit at IA
4. Programs
a. Training did not always match                * Need more focused and targeted capability building based on
needs                                          TNA and career development plans
5. Policy/Research
a. Absence of clear policy research             *  Need clear policy research agenda at project start
Agenda
b. Inability to transform research              *  Need clear articulation from research to policy to programs
studies into policies and                       to execution/ implementation
programs
6. Procurement
a. Slow procurement                             *  Periodic staff training on procurement of goods and services
requirements
* Reduce bureaucratic requirements
* Include after-sales service in contracts
* Set up procurement support unit (PSU)
b. Inadequate oversight                         *  Strengthen Procurement and Services Division (PSD)
management
* Adopt contract management scheme
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS
Based on the foregoing findings, the following are recommended to sustain gains achieved under the
Project and correct gaps/issues in project implementation. This will further strengthen TESDA's capability and
readiness to effectively manage upcoming foreign-funded projects:
1. Policy Directions
*   Provide targeted priority assistance and other resources to SIC, NSCP and TDIS.
* Review TESDA's direction vis-a-vis major issues/concerns and challenges confronting it at this time and
review TVET reforms vis-a-vis TESDA's direction.
*   Review TESDA's "housekeeping" rules and practices particularly at the ODG  and OCSA and check
inter-office relationships at CO and between CO, ROs, POs and Tls.
*   Institute measures and mechanisms to avoid the perennial problems of delayed releases of funds.
* Sustain the relentless effort of pursuing foreign funds and prepare adequately and accurately for the
implementation and management of upcoming foreign-funded projects. Consider the lessons learned from
VTP 11 and observe the proposed options and strategies.
- 19 -



*   Have executive will to pursue/implement plans and reformns and make systems work.
2. Proposed Resolutions and Options
Some concrete options for each sub-component are presented below:
2.1 Institutional Development
a. SIC
* Development of career pathing at CO, ROs, POs and TESD centers
*   Installation of measures to ensure sustainability of staff development program
b. MPPC
*   Re-assessment of PSALM approach of planning and updating of database under regular activities of
ROs and POs
*   Preparation of more sector studies
*   Strengthening of capability build-up for POs and R/PTESD Centers on planning by mentoring,
coaching or secondment of R/PTESD Centers administrators
c. NMIS
*   Full scale operation and utilization of the system by decision makers and development of executive
information system
*   Review of the whole NMIS concept and system by a really competent 3rd party before plunging into
hardware, systems and staff upgrading activities
*   Linkage with relevant GOP agencies like NSO, NSCB, DOST, DOLE, DTI, NEDA , etc., and
integration of FISFAP/INFODOS
*   Periodic upgrading and preventive maintenance of computers and enhancement of on-line system for
CO, ROs and POs
* Executive will to make systems work
2.2 Improvement of Training Quality & Cost Recovery
a. NSCP
3   Upgrading or revision of trade test packages and inclusion of more trade areas
o   Formulation of mechanism to fast track development and validation of assessment packages
o   Policy of moving into assessment and certification instead of direct training and selling of materials
to recover part of the cost
*   Translation of test packages into dialects
*   Installing measures to ensure sustainability of pool of accredited assessors
*   Full implementation of TOQCS
*   Strengthening of linkage with industry associations to eventually transfer the implementation of
TOQCS.
b. CTMD
*   Pilot testing of one true/model CBTESD program to show its viability prior to full scale development
of more TRs
*   Development of more TRs that are competency-based and revision of TRs based on technological
advancement
*   Distribution of available materials to recover reproduction cost
- 20 -



*   Inventory of existing materials, off-the shelf procurement and adoption of more measures to fast
track CTMD
*   Training on curriculum and training materials development should involve direct implementers (TC
trainers)
c. TDP
* Development of private financing scheme using regular funds
* Establishment of National Institute for TVET out of existing resources of NITVET and external
financing
* Updating of inventory/profile of trainors
*   Preparation of impact evaluation studies every after 5-10 batches
d. GES
* Expand career guidance initiatives to first year high school students
* Continue close linkage with PESO, PHILJOBNET, etc., and explore more partnership with industry
* Sustain RM award as part of regular activities, providing full support to its implementing arm
(Galing Pinoy Foundation)
*   Scout for new publisher of BCM (probably PIA).
e. METP
*   Full implementation of impact-driven M&E system linked with NMIS and prioritization of M&E
projects
*   Adoption of more measures for METP and ROs utilization
*   Education drive among TVET schools, ROs and POs on M&E activities using regular funding and
more staff training in conducting various kinds of research works
2.3 Training Capacity Development
a. UEFE
*   Development of equipment acquisition plan based on requests and specifications of ROs, POs,
R/PTESDCs and TESDA schools
*   Full implementation of a maintenance management system and regularize preventive maintenance
program to be monitored by NITVET
3   Explore co-management scheme with industry to maximize use of workshops
*   Development of standards n/s layouts, space requirement, systems, etc.
b. TCS
* Assess P1 - P12 capability of partners and include ICBP in regular activities of ROs
* Expand co-management of training programs with industry
*   Institutionalize DTS by pursuing linkage-building with industry and providing incentives for training
dualization
*   Review DTS implementation vis-a-vis industry's concerns and adopt more creative options in lieu of
DTS
*   Strengthen the Apprenticeship system.
c. TAC
*   Installation of measures to ensure sustained training of public and private TVET school teachers
- 21 -



*   Linkage with DA to avail of AFMA budget for agri-fishery TVET school teachers program
* Development of institutional development/action plans by TAC beneficiaries regarding application of
training received as well as transformation/reengineering that occurred and adoption of
annual/periodic perfornance evaluation.
d. TDIS
*   Sustaining the pool of CTECs and harnessing the trained ones
*   Full implementation of CBTED projects and other rural development projects
*   Inclusion of community-based training in municipal development Plans.
2.4 Crosscutting Concern
a. WEE
*   Adopt co-management scheme to reduce overhead/admin cost, thereby enhancing expansion of WEE
programs
*   Establishment of pilot women development centers for gender equity and entrepreneurship in
coordination with other GOP agencies engaged in GAD.
b. PMU (for future projects)
*   Co-location scheme for the implementation/operation aspect of projects but centralized monitoring
and evaluation by a strong PMU
* Adoption of project benefit M&E, i.e., not just quantity of output but more on quality prior to project
implementation; key performance indicators should be clearly specified
*   Preparation of cost-benefit analysis for each project component in future projects
a   Preparation of impact evaluation study at the end of the project with transition plan as part of its
recommendation
*   Sufficient number of competent technical and support staff at PMU
*   Permanency of PMU head and personnel during project implementation
*   Creation of electronic filing system backed up by systematic record keeping system to ensure
continuity of projects as planned in the event that PMU personnel be re-assigned or promoted
*   Designation of Regional PMUs
*   Strengthening of newly created IDFO in bridging completed and follow-up projects.
c. PSU (for future projects)
*   Strengthening of PSU to fast track financial management and procurement activities of the project
*   Organization and performance review of PSU to ensure appropriate and effective support
*   Staff development relative to FAPs implementation.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
:  .  I  _ .. ^ A: _ _ _ . ' u !-0                    4   .1 11    0
Outcome indicators which were not included
in the design of the project and for which no
base line data existed indude: a)
improvement in the intemal and external
efficiencies in the design and delivery of
training and skills development programs by
public and private providers; b) improvement
in the satisfaction of employers with trained
workers; c) increased productivity of trained
workers; d) increased eaming of trained
workers; and e) reduction in unemployment
of trained workers.
Output Indicators:
The design of this project, as indicated
earlier, involved an agency, the National
Manpower and Youth Council NMYC, which
was involved in the management as well as
the delivery of skills development programs
in the non formal sector. The original design
of the project and the related supervision
framework focused on the use of input/output
indicators of quantifiable factors such as the
number of people successfully completing
training in a given program, the quantity of
equipment procured or training materials
purchased, the number of workshops
implemented, centres upgraded, and number
of categories of skills standards compiled.
Base line information was established for
these indicators and supervision missions
continued to report on the progress achieved
using these indicators. This approach
continued after the establishment of TESDA
in 1994 with an expanded mandate, and
supervision missions including the midterm
evaluation mission reported on the progress
in the project using the existing indicator
framework.
I. Institutional Development
a. Strengthening Institutional Capacities    Train 300 NMYC central and regional staff in a. Over 10,000 TESDA staff trained (575
(SIC).                                management functions.                 executives, 1,370 managerial, 6,170
technical, 2,260 administrative).
b. Approximately 1,000 training programs
conducted.
c. About 280 ongoing scholarship and 26
Ateneo Graduate School graduates.
-23 -



b. Manpower policy, planning, and     Implement staff training program:
coordination (MPPC).
a. Policy analysis and coordination.   a. Market-onented planning methodology
established (PSALM approach).
b. Manpower planning and training needs   b. Planning data bases established (NMIS
analysis.                             linked).
c. Resource allocation and management.   c. Training program on TEVT planning and
organization conducted.
d. Private sector training and incentives.    d. About 2,000 TESDA staff trained in
various operational areas.
e. Cost effectiveness analysis.
f. Cost and impact evaluation.
c. Developing a National Management   a. Develop and install NMIS computer    a. NMIS installed in TESDA HQ and
Information System (NMIS)             network at central and regional NMYC    networked to 15 regional offices.
offices.
b. Train policy analysts, computer     b. About 2,500 system users trained.
programmers and data processors.
c. Consultancy Services.              c. TESDA Web Site developed and
published; Installabon/development and
operationalization of softwares.
d. Procurement of Equipment.           d. Procured 76 micro computers, 8 printers
and 54 notebooks.
d. Project Management Unit (PMU)       Supervision of project implementation.  a. Coordinated 19 implementation
review/supervision missions.
b. Coordinated 6 annual implementation
planning workshops.
c. Coordinated 14 semester implementation
workshops.
d. Implemented SWIG, CPM, FISFAP and
SOLOMON IV.
e. Monitored consultancy services for
VTP II integration and evaluation.
2. Improvement of Training Quality
a. National Skills Certification Program  a. Consolidate existing trade standards.    a. Skills standards for about 250
(NSCP)                                                                        occupational titles set .
b. Train testing officers.             b. 5,000 officers tested, 2,500 accredited.
c. Set up central test bank.           c. 240 trade categories established.
d. Equip testing centers.              d. Central test item bank established.
e. 15 skills testing centers established and
accredited.
- 24 -



b. Trainer Development Program (TDP)   a. Conduct needs analysis.             a. Analysis conducted.
b. Set up licensing and qualification system. b. Job standards and qualifications
developed .
c. Private sector financing of trainer training.
c. 14,000 trainers attended training courses
of varying duration.
d. Trainer training/skills upgrading.
d. Total output of trainers reached 13,591.
c. Curricula and Training Materials    a. Produce andlor adapt training curricula   a. Updated 7 curricula.
Development (CTMD)                     for 20 vocational programs.
b. Develop, print and distnbute training  b. Dualized 9 curricula.
materials.
c. Train staff in curriculum and materials   c. Developed training regulations in priority
development.                           areas (49 occupational titles) and 640
learning guides.
d. Commercial printing of training
regulations.                           d. Trained about 140 CTMD staff.
e. Procured and distrbuted multiple training
materials.
f. Printed 3 occupational titles and 430
copies of trade regulations in Info Tech and
metals.
d. Guidance and Employment Services    Upgrade 70 staff in GES delivery.       a. Trained about 56 placement and guidance
(GES)                                                                         officers, 200 regional and provincial line
officers and 45 facilitators.
b. Developed and disseminated career
guidance materials.
c. Placed 90,000 graduates in jobs
Provided referral assistance to 125,000
graduates .
e. Monitoring and Evaluation of Training  Develop and implement systems to monitor  a. M&E system has been developed and
Performance (METP)                     and evaluate performance of facilities, staff  partially implemented.
and students.
b. Instruments to measure intemal and
extemal efficiencies have been designed.
3. Development Training Capacity
- 25 -



a. Upgrade existing facilities (UEFE)   a. Upgrade 28 regional and provincial   a. Upgraded 15 regional, 13 provincial and
training centers.                       one national training center.
b. Implement facilities maintenance system. b. Installed maintenance system and trained
staff in its use (1998).
a. Support Training Assistance Contract
b. Expand enterprise-based training (TCS &  Scheme (TAC).                       a. TAC: upgraded skills of 2,670
TAC)                                                                            industry-based trainers (1992-94) and
upgraded skills of 12,800 staff of
post-secondary vocational training institutes
(1995-99).
b. Support Training Contract Scheme
(TCS).                                  b. TCS: 300 senior staff trained in
enterprise-based training program
development, delivery and quality control;
over 20,000 industry-based trainers trained.
a. Support local communities to deliver and  a. Trained 1,229 LGUs, 1,621 CTECs and
c. Training Delivery System for the Rural    deliver skills training and entrepreneurship   222 local staff
Informal Sector (TDIS)                  development programs.
b. Provide equipment and training materals. b. Implemented 16 pilot projects in
Community-Based Training &
c. Train staff.                         Entrepreneurship Development (CBTED)
c. Implemented and evaluated two
women's programs.
a. Investment strategy for developmnent of
the formal TEVr system                  a. Sector review, ten-year strategy, and
4. Sector Studies (SS)                                                          five-year investment plan (1998).
b. Feasibility study of sector-specific &
advanced training centers.              b. Investment Strategy for the formal TVET
study completed (1994) and feasibility study
on TVET investment needs completed
(1994).
c. Numerous other studies.
End of project
- 26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)                                        ._
Appraisal     ActuaVLatest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million     US$ million
Institutional Development                                9.50            17.97         163.16
Improvement of Training Quality                          7.00             5.58         64.29
Development of Training Capacity                        16.00           22.24          109.88
Sector Studies                                           0.60            0.24             30
Total Baseline Cost                                     33.10           46.03
Physical Contingencies                                  8.70
Total Project Costs                41.80           46.03
Total Financing Required                41.80            46.03
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB         Other'        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                t    0.00          2.50          0.10         0.00          2.60
(0.00)       (2.00)        (0.10)       (0.00)        (2.10)
2. Goods                     10.10          1.10         2.80         0.00          14.00
(8.90)       (0.90)        (2.40)       (0.00)       (12.20)
3. Services                   0.00         0.00          15.80        0.00          15.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (15.80)       (0.00)        (15.80)
4. Training                   0.00         0.00          5.90         0.00          5.90
(0.00)       (0.00)        (5.90)       (0.00)        (5.90)
5. O & M                      0.00         0.00          0.00         3.50          3.50
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                                                                    0.00
()           ()            ()           0)          (0.00)
Total                      10.10         3.60         24.60         3.50         41.80
(8.90)       (2.90)       (24.20)       (0.00)       (36.00)
Project Costs by Procureme t Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB          Other2       N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          2.40          0.00         0.00          2.40
(0.00)       (0.90)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.90)
2. Goods                      7.70         2.19          0.86         0.00          10.75
(7.40)       (2.00)        (0.10)       (0.00)        (9.50)
3. Services                   0.00         14.60         0.00         0.00          14.60
(0.00)       (1.77)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (1.77)
4. Training                   0.00         2.50          0.00         0.00          2.50
- 27 -



(0.00)          (3.80)          (0.00)         (0.00)           (3.80)
5. 0 & M                           0.00            0.00            0.00            0.22            0.22
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                                                                                   0.00
()____________________________ _  ()  )        ()0           (0-00)
Total                           7.70           21.69            0.86           0.22            30.47
_    (7.40)          (8.47)          (0.10)          (0.00)          (15.97)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2I Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Cormonent (in US$ million equivalent)
Percen tage of Appraisal
ApE  EXpraisal Es te1          ActV u/Latest Estiate   i
BkX0 Gosvt :A iC:oF          i  Bank 0      :Govt :    CoF k    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Institutional Development  9.00       3.90                  10.80       4.70               120.0  120.5   0.0
Improvement of Training    7.60       1.30                  4.50                            59.2    0.0    0.0
Quality
DevelopmentofTraining      18.80      1.40                  15.50       2.08                82.4   148.6   0.0
Capacity
Sector Studies             0.60       0.10                  0.18                            30.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL                      36.00      7.00                  31.00       7.00                86.1   100.0   0.0
-28 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
These were not calculated for this project.
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress           Objective
IdentificationlPreparation         3   Technical Education
Nov 1989 - Oct 1991                Specialist/Education Specialist!
Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
April 1992                    4   Technical Education
Specialist/Education
Specialist/Engineer/
Architect
Supervision
July, 1992                     2  Technical Education                  HS                 HS
Specialist/Architect
Nov, 1992                      2  Technical Education                   HS                HS
Specialist/Architect
May, 1993                      2  Technical Education                   S                 HS
Specialist/Operations Officer
Nov, 1993                      3  Operations Officer/Procurement        S                 HS
Specialist/Policy Advisor
June, 1994                     3  Technical Education                   S                  S
Specialist/Education
Specialist/Procurement Specialist
Sept, 1994                     3  Technical Education                   U                  S
Specialist/Education
Specialist/Procurement Specialist
April, 1995                    3  Technical Education                   S                  S
Specialist/Education
Specialist/Procurement Specialist
Sept, 1995                     2  Education Specialist/Architect        S                  S
Education                            S                  S
March, 1996                    3  Specialist/Procurement
Specialist/Operations Officer
Mid Term Review                2  Technical Education                   S                  S
Feb, 1997                          Specialist/Procurement Specialist
May, 1997                      1  Technical Education Specialist        S                  S
Nov, 1997                      3  Technical Education                   S                  S
Specialist/Procurement
Specialist/Architect
- 30 -



June 1998                     5  Technical Education                   S                 S
Specialist/Architect/Operations
Officer/Procurement
Specialist/Financial
Management Specialist
Sept, 1998                    5  Technical Education                   S                 S
Specialist/Operations
Officer/Procurement
Specialist/Financial
Management Specialist/Informal
Sector Specialist
March, 1999                   5  Technical Education                   S                  S
Specialist/Operations
Officer/Procurement
Specialist/Financial
Management Specialist/Informal
Sector Specialist
ICR
Completion                    5   Technical Education                  S                  S
Oct, 1999                          Specialist/Operations
Officer/Procurement
Specialist/Financial
Management Specialist/
Informal Sector Specialist
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              USs (,000)
Identification/Preparation               64.9                       156.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                    63.3                       148.7
Supervision                            127.22                      271.06
ICR                                     10.00                       20.00
Total                                  265.42                      595.96
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
JMacro policies                          O H  OSUOM  ON   * NA
 Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
 Physical                                O H  *SUOM  0ON  0 NA
Z Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                           O H OSUOM O N O NA
D Other (Please specify)
Z Private sector development              0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                0 H  0 SU OM  0 N  0 NA
2 Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
0 Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
OI Preparation                                       O HS * S  O U  O HU
O Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
E Overall                                            OHS OS  OU  O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
IDA.   Development Credit Agreement. July 6, 1992.
IDA.   Final Supervision/Completion Mission Aide-Memoire. October 1999.
IDA.   Supervision Reports. 1992-1999.
IDA.   Staff Appraisal Report. May 11, 1992.
Leverage International Inc. The Impact of the Second Vocational Training (92-98). December 1999.
Sam Mikhail. The Quality, Relevance and Impact of the Project's Programs. September 1996.
Smart Research Services, Inc. Transition Plan for VTP II, Volumes l and Il. December 1999.
TESDA. 1993-1998 Accomplishement Report. October 1999..
TESDA. Project Completion Report. December 31, 1999.
TESDA. Progress Reports. 1993-1999.
TESDA. Regional Status Report for the CBTED Component. December 1999.
TESDA. Women's Economic Empowerment Accomplishment Report 1999.
- 34 -



