Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2392 PH
               (Second Vocational Training Project)
                              between
                    REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated  July 6, 1992
                                             Credit Number 2392 PH
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Page  2
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "NMYC" means the National Manpower and Youth Council,
the Borrower's agency responsible for the provision of employment
and manpower development services;
      (b)   "National Skills Certification Program" means the
Borrower's national skills standards development, testing and
certification program; and
      (c)   "Financial Plan" means NMYC's financial plan for the
years 1992 to 1997.
                           ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-six million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR26,400,000).
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Page  3
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1, commenc-
ing December 1, 2002 and ending June 1, 2027. Each installment to
and including the installment payable on June 1, 2012 shall be one
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
NMYC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, administrative, training and educational
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through NMYC consult with the
Association prior to making revisions to Financial Plan.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
Page  4
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
                   tion;
             (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than nine months
                   after the end of each such year, a certified
                   copy of the report of such audit by said audi-
                   tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records, accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                   to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
              (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
             (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
                   ciation has received the audit for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the
                   Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
             (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance, Department of Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Secretary of Finance
Page  5
            Department of Finance
            Manila
            Republic of the Philippines
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   SECFIN                    40268 CB-CONF
                   Manila                    27550 CBP-PH
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
                       /s/ F. Ebdalin
                   By
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       /s/ G. Kaji
                   By
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment                 6,500,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
Page  6
                                                procured locally
(2)  Civil works               1,500,000        80%
(3)  Furniture, books and      1,800,000        90%
     consumable materials
(4)  Expert and profes-        2,700,000        100%
     sional services
(5)  Foreign and local         8,600,000        100%
     fellowships
(6)  Enterprise based          4,200,000        100%
     training
(7)  Unallocated               1,100,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                26,400,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to improve the Borrower's
employment and manpower development policies, strengthen NMYC and
expand non-formal training through, inter alia, enhancement of the
Borrower's private sector's training capacity.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Development
1.    Strengthening NMYC through training of its central and
regional staff in the areas of training, policy, planning and
coordination.
2.    Training staff from other agencies of the Borrower in the
areas mentioned in (1) above.
3.    Development of a national manpower information system to (a)
facilitate NMYC's management decentralization; and (b) strengthen it
as a provider of employment and manpower development services.
Part B:     Improvement of Training Quality and Cost Recovery
1.    Provision of support and technical assistance to expand and
improve the quality of (a) the National Skills Certification Program
and promotion of similar programs in selected industries; and (b)
curricula and training materials.
2.    Development and implementation of (a) programs to train the
trainers; (b) monitoring and evaluation systems to facilitate
Page  7
effective supervision by NMYC of the technical, management and
financial performance of its training institutions; and (c) finan-
cial and other appropriate mechanisms to improve NMYC's cost
recovery.
Part C:     Training Capacity Development
1.    Upgrading of about 14 regional manpower and training centers
and about 13 provincial manpower and training centers and the
National Skills Training Center.
2.    Enhancing private sector firms' training capacity through,
inter alia, the carrying out of training needs assessments and
trainers' training programs.
3.    Improving apprenticeship training and providing support to
existing and new NMYC training programs including programs in the
areas of rural skills and livelihood.
Part D:     Studies
      Carrying out of (i) a study of the formal technical and
vocational education and training sector for purposes, inter alia,
of developing a strategy to rationalize formal technical, vocational
education and training; and (ii) a study of the needs for sector
specific and advanced technology training centers.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
the Philippines may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    All civil work contracts, furniture items estimated to cost
the equivalent of up to $200,000 and, except as provided in
paragraph 2 below, items or groups of items of equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $900,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
2.    Items or groups of items of equipment and furniture estimated
to cost the equivalent of $5,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
Page  8
lines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Books may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association, except that books may be
purchased after direct negotiations with publishers or authorized
distributors, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association, provided the said publishers or authorized distributors
are the books' sole suppliers.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more and each contract for the
purchase of equipment estimated to cost $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
